ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65150	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 65 MPs are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are catches for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 12 to 16 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the meetings of Branko Ružić, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Zoran Đordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance, Zoran Kasalović, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Bojana Stanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Borajana Bogdanović, Head of Department of Labour, Employment, Borain and Social Affairs, Milos Jankovic, Deputy Minister of Labour, Employment, Labour and Social Affairs of the Ministry of State Administration, Snezana Bogdanović, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Public Administration and Public Administration. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 12 to 16, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Agency Salaries and Other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP, or the Units of Local Self-Government; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Employees and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP and the Units of Local Self-Government; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees and the Proposal for a Law on Agency Employment. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister of state administration and local self-government Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65151	Thank you. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, there are four draft laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salaries of Public Agency Employees and Other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or units of local self-government; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Sector Payments; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP and the Units of Local Self-Government; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees. The proposed amendments to those laws redefine deadlines starting with the application of system and specific pay laws in individual parts of the public sector, conditioned by the need to carry out additional financial analyses of the new pay system in the coming period and to leave a new, appropriate period of time for employers and employees to prepare for the implementation of new solutions. In view of the need to carry out a more detailed assessment of fiscal impact over the upcoming period, the inclusion of all public sector employees of the new pay system and to enable the planning and establishment of employee labour costs under the new wage system to prevent the participation of the general government's mass in GDP from increasing, amendments to those laws have been made in the proposed way. When preparing those rules, the complexity, complexity of the law implementation process, which implies significant obligations for public sector employers, as well as for public service founders and other legal persons through the planning of a base for the calculation of salaries to achieve the financial sustainability of the republican, regional and of course local budgets. This all conditioned the need to leave an appropriate period of time from the adoption of those laws to their application, thus allowing the reform of the wage system to reach a financial sustainable effect starting on 1 January 2021. This way, I would also like to point out that paying classes exist in the system of state authorities, starting on 1 January 2007, when the reform law on salaries of civil servants and deputies was passed. Therefore, the work of civil servants is already being monitored and the salaries of civil servants are, depending on the value of work, moving through paid classes. Payment classes mean that practically salaries are increased to employees based on the quality of their work, even in the event that the base based on which the salary is calculated is not increased. Payment classes mean good performance management and people, which, of course, should follow the prize through pay. Our definition is that through the reform of the pay system, payment classes for the entire public sector are allowed to be applied. We propose that the start of the reform be postponed by another year, given the complexity of this process. In fact, the reform concerns more than 400,000 employees in various institutions, state bodies, public agencies, units of local self-government that need to be prepared for change, as they will implement when the reform begins. The specificities of each part of the public sector must be analysed and applied through the pay, allowance and other labour-related rights, as well as through the process of planning financial labour costs. Therefore, it should be kept in mind that healthcare has an on-call and a different organisation of work because of the need to provide continuous health, or uninterrupted availability of healthcare. Education differs in terms of organisation, even to funding itself, from pre-school through primary and secondary education and to higher education. Science is also in the reform financing process. Local self-government authorities are undergoing a reform process in working relationships. All of this, of course, condition that a large financial analysis of each sector, the way they are organised, the way they finance and the cost of work is necessary to make a meaningful and budgetary sustainable transition to a new system in all parts of the public sector. For all this time, since 2015, when it was decided to enter into reform, it has been done and is still working on a huge part of the work that should allow the reform to begin. Four new salary laws have been passed following long trade negotiations with trade unions and other interested parties. So, System Law, Public Service Act, for AP and units of local self-government and Public Agency Act. A draft of another law has been prepared to treat civil servants, who went through a public debate. Public sector jobs have also been done through adopted job catalogues and, of course, changes in jobs are monitored all the time through catalogues and therefore coordinated. It's one living organism, one continuous activity. The implementation of catalogues in the systematisation of all public services has also been carried out. In the final phase there is a preparation for the adoption of the catalogues of jobs of tenants in state bodies and authorities of AP and local self-government units. A harmonised vault register cipher with a job catalogue, in support of financial analysts and adequate monitoring of public sector employment. All ministries and trade unions were discussed on job evaluation, which should result in a regulation on job coefficients for catalogues. Also, what awaits us is a continuation of the talks with the trade unions and that is another very important part of the process that we need to carry out and, of course, end, in order to achieve as much consensus as possible on the final solutions before the implementation of January 1st, 2021. An analysis is also being carried out of the payouts found by each employer in the public sector, as well as a financial analysis of possible options for the reform to be gradually implemented when the law applies. So it's practically a very complex, demanding, financially sensitive process that needs to be carried out to the end so that we can say reliably that the reform will affect the budget and how each employee pays. Given that such reform processes have been prepared in other countries, implemented in the system for more than 10 years, it is also necessary to respect the reasons why such a serious reform cannot be implemented in Serbia in such a short time. Especially since this reform must not endanger the budgetary stability achieved in the previous period. Finally, I hope that in the voting day you will support the amendment of these four laws, and I hope that you will also appreciate the argument that treats this issue and all the arguments that we have given, because it is indeed a very demanding, complex process that we are working together with the Ministry of Finance and the whole government is very committed to this topic, and most importantly, when we enter into the implementation of the reform part of the wage reform system itself, it is important that it be both meaningful and financially sustainable and that it is primarily in the interest of those to whom it applies, and these are, as I said at the outset, more than 400,000 people working in our public services, bodies, agencies, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65152	I thank Minister Ruzic. The word has Zoran Djordjevic, the minister of labour, employment, martial arts and social affairs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65153	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is before you the proposal for a law on agency employment. The introduction of a legal framework for working through the agency for temporary employment is aimed at bringing the working legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with international standards of the IOR. On 20 February 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law attesting IOR No. 181, on private employment agencies, which took another step in harmonising our legislation with international standards. This law aligns both with that Convention and with Recommendation 188, and with Directive 2008/104 on the work through the Agency for Temporary Employment and other Directives which contain provisions relating to agency workers, i.e. the remuneration of employees. For this reason, the adoption of this law has been confirmed as a priority in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Government programme 2017-2019 in the national plan. The labour law does not regulate equal status or regulate the conditions under which workers are employed in order to comply with the work of another employer, as well as their protection. However, the Business Society Act does not have restrictions on the exercise of more activity, including those not included in the register, so-called ‘registration’. secondary activities, the remuneration of workers is permitted by the Labour Classification Regulation, such as temporary employment and other human resources concessions, so that all economic operators, not only agencies, can deal with these activities. The Regulation is the only basis for temporary employment and human resources reduction without the existence of adequate legislation to ensure the protection of the rights of persons who have been admitted. The labour law only knows the contractual relationship between the employee and the employer, so it does not regulate the work of the employee through the Temporary Employment Agency. A clear definition of the Agency for Temporary Employment and Precision of Conditions for their Work, Rights and Obligations of Persons who conclude a contract with the Agency for Temporary Employment in order to comply with the temporary work of the employer and other mutual rights and obligations of employees to the Employers' Agency will arrange this area and ensure maximum protection of the so-called ‘Employee’. Agency employee. The positive effects of the adoption of this law are reflected in the protection and improvement of the conditions of work of persons employed for the purpose of involving employees of other entities, consumer enterprises, equalising the basic conditions of working with the employee of the employer, and in particular the improvement of the working status with the transition from the Treaty on temporary and occasional jobs to the Labour Contract, thus providing for all the rights laid down in the Labour and General Act, such as the Collective Contract and the Labour Regulation. Then the same position in terms of working conditions as having directly established a working relationship with the user's employer, which will contribute to better working conditions, and in particular to increasing the earnings of employed employees, the right to compensation for the cost of coming and leaving work, to eating during work, to the regression for the use of annual vacations, during the official trip in the country and abroad, for accommodation and feeding for work and stay on the ground. Better secure conditions for safety and health at work. Right to unlimited working hours and overtime payments. The right to rest during daily work, daily and Sunday holidays, vacation and other leave, state and other holidays. The grey economy and informal employment represent one of the key challenges facing the Republic of Serbia today. Not registered activities significantly harm all interested actors, employers, employees and the state itself. On the one hand, unreported workers are deprived of basic rights, among other things pension and health insurance rights, while on the other hand the state fails to collect taxes and contribute. Also, companies operating legally have significantly higher operating costs especially of labour compared to their competitors in the gray zone. In doing so, all interested forces must have a common goal and task, which is to fight the gray economy. The application of the law will contribute to curbing the grey economy, i.e. reducing the work to black because so far, agency workers have not been visible in the system of labour relations, and have been subject to all forms of violations of constitutional and legal rights from work and social security, so that they fall within the form of black labour. Looking at all the possibilities for solving the problem of unprotected and discriminated employees who work as an established employee the fact that there is a legal basis for carrying out their work, renting employees for the needs of others so-called. temporary employment and other concessions of human resources, and there are no legal solutions which will, in accordance with international standards, regulate the working position of the acquittal employees of agencies and consumer companies, adopt this law is not only the best but the only way to address the problems mentioned above. The Agency Employment Act will also provide a legal basis for the removal of all of the above problems, in particular inequality and discrimination and unfair competition in respect of the status of employed employees and agencies, employers involved in the treatment and employers of the users in whom these employees perform their work. In the voting day, I suggest you support this law, because as I said, it is something completely new with us in the system and I believe that it will fully improve the position of all our employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65154	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65155	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, in front of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, points out that the proposal for an Agency Employment Act was the subject of consideration, that the committee responsible had accepted it and proposed adoption to the National Assembly in principle. What I must say first is that I should commend the work of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs precisely for the reason that it is a whole new system law whose primary objective is to improve the working status of workers who have worked on occasional and temporary jobs. They're mostly seasonal workers, they're mostly construction workers. Improving the quality of their lives, their compensation to be calculated in accordance with the parallel workplace, the user's employer, their overall better living standards and poverty reduction. The aim of the SNS, of course both of these governments and our presidents, is for poverty in Serbia to be reduced to the lowest possible extent, which means that the quality of life of all workers employed on any basis is improved and that their families' lives are also improved. Also, I must commend the competent ministry because in a completely transparent way, there has been a bill that is now on the agenda, here at the home of the National Assembly. I must point out that representatives of other ministries, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, representatives of the Union of Employers were involved, that the public debate was held in November 2018, and that round tables were also on the subject of the presentation of this law in five cities in the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Pazar. Also, this law, in a precise and detailed way, determines the obligation of employment agencies, which according to the 2018 data, according to the Ministry of Labour, were 111, precisely in a precise way, regulated by the work of agencies. This prevents unfair competition, giving rise to a larger number of agencies in the labour market, but most importantly, it is to reduce the grey economy which is the cancer of each society. Of course, by reducing the gray economy, this law and how it contributes. I must also commend that the supervision of the application of this law will be carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, the Department of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, that sublegal acts for the application of this law will also be passed by the competent minister in the time prescribed by the law. We hope that the implementation of this law will contribute to the improvement of the standard of living of employees who have not been adequately established working status so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65156	Thank you, colleague. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65157	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today, the proposal for a law on agency employment, among other things, seems to me to be one of the most important, because this area has been quite undefined so far, as the minister said in the opening statement. That's why we need to repeat, for the sake of the public, first of all because of those who are currently in that status, so-called. Agency employee. The subject of the regulation of this law, as can be seen in the material that we have obtained, are above all the rights and obligations of employees who establish a working relationship with the Temporary Employment Agency, and then equal treatment, as I say, of seconded employees with regard to the exercise of certain labour rights, then the conditions for the work of temporary employment agencies. The way is also provided for, as well as the conditions of remuneration of employees to another company, i.e. another legal person, then the relationship between agencies and the employers of the users, as well as the obligations of agencies and employers of the users to the employed employees. Interestingly, the current regulations governing this area have not regulated the issue of temporary employment agencies, although those, as we have heard from our previous colleague, have been in practice for a long time. The labour law only knows the contractual relationship between the employee and the employer, so it does not regulate the work of the employee through the Temporary Employment Agency. However, the more precise definition of temporary employment agencies, as well as the conditions for their work, rights and obligations, this law regulates this area and protects those so-called. Agency employees, i.e. employees of the employer. Collective bargaining is also foreseen, which is very good, and collective bargaining in the agency or with the employer. Contracts may also negotiate some segments that would improve and improve, for example, through various training of employees, as well as access to facilities, e.g. for the stay of children or other types of convenience for self-employed persons through the Employment Agency. The legal solutions ahead of us today will have a positive impact on the labour market in, I can say, four segments. First, it will contribute to increasing the number of contracts for employment with hired workers, secondly, to improving the material and social security of hired workers through the provision of earnings equal to that of a parallel worker in the employer. Under three, it will lead to the abolition of unfair competition, as we heard from the minister, between the agencies themselves and the agencies and the employer. Under four, it will contribute to greater competitiveness among agencies engaged in the rental of labour on legal and market grounds. In order to achieve a sustainable trend in employment, individual objectives have been defined to contribute to increasing employment in Serbia through the implementation of different programmes, such as material, measures and activities. Among other things, this is meant to encourage employment in less developed regions and develop regional and local employment policies, which is very important, especially in the case of southern and Southeast Serbia. Then, the expansion of the active employment policy programme, which leads to improvements in the quality of human resources and ultimately the development of institutions, i.e. institutional capacities. What should be pointed out is that the Agency Employment Act will provide a legal basis for all of the above mentioned problems of the former, and in particular inequalities and discrimination in terms of employee status and employers' agencies. Article 31 should be pointed out Proposal for a law governing collective rights of posted employees in accordance with international standards of the International Labour Organisation and of the European Union. Due to the specificity of this type of engagement, the law stipulates that the employed employees are to be accounted for in the total number of employees of the user's employer in determining the fulfilment of the conditions for the identification of staff representatives in accordance with the law, and that they have the right to trade union organisation and operation, which is very important. It is generally known that SDPS advocates all employees, regardless of the type of working relationship and working time. The SDPS programme itself, in the part of providing social security and jobs, stresses, among other things, that the socially responsible state implies organised solidarity, where the state should primarily speed up the creation and co-operation with different associations and other forms of engagement whose objectives are social solidarity, social protection and employment. My question is because we received as a parliamentary group and proposals from the Independent Unions of Serbia whether there were talks with the trade unions as well. As far as I understand it, my colleague, the public hearings were held in Serbia. What is the position of the Social Economic Council when it comes to this bill? Also, in these proposals of the Independent Unions of Serbia, there are very interesting ideas that we hope, as SDPS, will be envisaged in the part called the sublegal act, which primarily refers to the bank guarantee, as security of the employment agency, as well as solidarity of agencies and employers. In the voting day, the SDPS will support a set of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65158	Thank you. The word has been made by the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP of the People's Republic of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday and today we have 16 draft laws that are somehow closely related to the Budget Law and of these 16 proposals, 13 are amended and complemented by the law. Some change even 17 times. I guess that's enough to say that these proposals are bad and that all this stuff that you've been talking about here today, Mr. Minister, should be changed from the root. It is also important to note that in the next day you will adopt a law that increases the tax for so-called. Public service, which is everything, is just not it. Today, the current is up 3.9%, so you didn't sync well, you should have at least waited for this pension increase or a raise of minimum earnings and this increase in public sector earnings, since you obviously fit in nicely to get those increases back into the budget. So, no increase in consumption, which is your public story. The minister spoke of paying classes and these three laws relating to salaries in local administrations, the Republic, autonomous provinces. Well, it won't be like we heard from the minister. First, paying classes in Serbia do not exist. The pay grade's been promising for, like, 19 years. You, Minister, said that in some other countries this kind of reform has been preparing for more than 10 years. Here, in Serbia, 19 years old. Each minister and each Prime Minister promised payment classes as one of the top priorities. You say that since 2007, in Serbia, pay classes have been applied to local self-governments, and wages have been coordinated based on the quality of work, i.e. increasing employee earnings. First of all, it's not pay grade, and it's certainly clear to you. There are some evaluations that are more and more real, where you have no exact data based on which the direct manager evaluates the employee and then there's so much abuse in local self-government that it's simply amazing. Of personal interests, personal affinities, personal possible arguments depends on whether someone gets a score of three, four, five, two, etc. You can't say that there are these measured grades, you still call them paid classes, which, of course, isn't so, Mr. Ruzic and you know it well, but it sounds nice when the minister says so, and then people think -- look, these really do something. So if you don't have a precise statement on what it's based on, the form that someone fills in and that form makes his salary go down or goes up, everything else is telling you a story and something that just doesn't have anything to do with reality. You've also talked here about how many reasons there are to move the application of these laws for another year. There's no reason, you just didn't do what you promised. You promised payment classes, all of these laws are about paid classes, you didn't do them, and then it's nice to say, sorry, MPs, we didn't do anything, we just, we have to extend the deadline. These laws must extend the deadline. It's not a matter of whether or not someone will, it's just an explanation that needs to be the way it really is. It's about public service salaries, it's about salaries that certainly aren't what they are, and now with these increases, they're far from something that can be truly lived on, and especially, when I say this, I'm thinking about tenants. It is the largest group of public sector employees, in local self-government, in the AP administration, in the state administration. These people barely get paid at the height of this so-called. Minimal. The minimum, which is 30,000,22 dinars, is still not, is still 27,000,22 dinars, only after January 1st will be 30,000,22 dinars and which is by seven thousand dinars smaller than the minimum consumer basket, not than the average, but the minimum. Pensions are only, the lowest pension is three times lower, and more than three times lower, than that lowest consumer basket. You gentlemen are not socially responsible. Your budget, which you adopted, is not socially responsible. All of what you are doing in this last period, related to future elections, is especially the proposal for a law on agency employment, i.e. for future pre-election campaigns. Agency employment, I guess, you know, exists now. I don't think it's a newspaper for you. There are, Mr. Djordjevic, local self-government in Serbia, 80% of them founded by agencies. These agencies have been housed by all those who were employed at the time of the previous government and in those agencies receive far less salaries than those who receive employees in local self-government and, of course, have none of the rights that you here now, as much of this law as you foresee. All these people were just transferred, a contract was broken in local self-government and transferred to the agencies. So don't tell me it doesn't exist when everyone who looks at us knows it and everyone who sits here in this room knows it. If they won't say, if it's a state secret, here, we've discovered it, so the agencies exist. What you are now predicting in this Agency Employment Act is something about us Serbian radicals, which is absolutely unnecessary. You're saying that this law harmonizes with international standards, with some European standards, with international standards, we've ratified something and so on, but ministers, in those countries you compare with, we'd be happy to compare in this part, but it doesn't work. There, social aid is greater than our average earnings that you boast in advance, since June, that by the end of this month it will be 500 euros. There, social aid, in each of these countries, and developed Europe, is greater than our average profit. So we shouldn't exactly crash into comparing ourselves at all costs, or harmonize our own legislation. Minister, you need to remove the public sector employment ban, we don't have that bill, and that's what you need to do urgently. You have been promising this for three years, and now Prime Minister Ana Brnabic says the employment ban will be lifted, but the Commission will determine who and where to work. It's not a neck. It's a neck. So there's no free employment. The prime minister says -- how whoever retires will hire new people. It's not like you're doing it like that. It's done where it's supposed to be. We, when we say we should remove that ban, then, above all, manage what we hear from you ministers here. You ministers whine to us MPs. Whatever we tell you doesn't work, you say - we don't have an inspector. We don't have construction inspectors, we don't have an inspector to work with, we don't have budget inspectors, we don't have health inspectors, we don't have educational inspectors, we don't have market inspectors, and the fact is, you don't. Ten inspectors can't cover all of Serbia in their jobs, so 20 can't cover the whole of it for the job to be done in any area as much as possible. So we're telling you that where there really is a need, normally, you call a contest, you receive people who meet the conditions, not that you receive at a certain time party activists. Then what's going on? That party activist... Now I'm telling you all of what's absolutely present in practice, this party activist at some newsstand buying a degree and automatically from a place, for example, a coffee cook becomes a counselor, gets a bigger salary, and, unfortunately, in two, three months, she gets some serious job, some kind of inspector, etc. There's nothing you can do with that kind of footage in local self-government or state administration. He can't, Minister. In the state administration, I'm speaking to both ministers, and you know it, especially you, Mr. Ruzic, who have been longer than Mr. Djordjevic and you've been a folk MP and you know, you've been following everything that's going on, we in the state administration, and unfortunately both in local self-governments and in the province administrations have, people, a serious problem. You don't have one hand to count people who know how to do their job. Here, I don't want to call anyone. Ask the people who operate the Assembly, ask the people who operate your ministries, I don't mean you as ministers, but, I don't know, the secretaries, in this more, I'd say, technically, the technological sense they're handling. You don't have people who know how to do business. Those who come with resident diplomas, first of all, don't know, secondly, won't learn and, thirdly, say openly – you're going to tell me I'm doing something, so I'm employed here by the party. It's what they say to an older colleague who's trying to teach them something. Believe me, when another group of people need to retire, when they retire, believe they won't have to do the simplest job in local self-government and state administration. For this reason we are talking – take where there is a need, hire lawyers, young lawyers who have graduated from the State Law School. Let them learn the work, let them learn. It's not simple business. The affairs of the state administration and local self-government are not simple jobs. They also require knowledge and seriousness and experience. You are working on it, consciously or unconsciously, to remain completely devastated by these most significant bodies for the functioning of the state. Why do we still think this agency employment isn't good? No one, nor this law, nor reason, nor has the minister explained to us, except that we have to comply with someone on the international level, what do we get from these agency employment? What do employees get that will be granted? He says, "He will be appointed to someone." This is the National Employment Service in some form of "JN", what you are predicting by this law. Why does someone, if they need a lawyer, an economist, an engineer, a doctor, I don't know what, can't call a competition normally and receive someone who meets the conditions? Why can't he take it indefinitely? Why does it have to be done through the Agency? What's the agency's role anyway? What's that Agency gonna do? Will they apply to the National Service or the Agency? Will they be there at the Agency, God forgive me, who on Red Lantern Street ordered someone to come pick them to work? It's just amazing. It's just amazing what you've predicted with this bill. What conditions have you given who can and can establish this Agency? It can, about anyone who comes to mind. But in what way... You have predicted here and that, if the employee, the employer of the user is obliged to pay the compensation paid by the employed employees at work. If he won't for some reason, the Agency is subsidically responsible for the damages. What's this Agency gonna pay for the damages? On what basis is he subsidically responsible? It doesn't say anywhere that it takes a single dollar to have bank guarantees. Therefore, this position of Article 2 33 is completely unnecessary to you, unusable. So, this reputable employee, which looks terrible to me only as a term, the employed employee, can suffer no harm, the employer won't compensate for that damage, the Agency doesn't have any money because he has no obligation to have money, because he can establish it in any way that comes to mind, but it's important that you say that it's a company, that's what the Agency or an entrepreneur would call it, meets the spatial and technical conditions for work. Really, like what? What are the spatial and technical conditions for work to meet? That agency, as you've been standardizing it here with this law, should have two computers and two employees who will record people who apply and people you give up. What other space do you need for this and what other technical conditions do you need for it? Instead of prescribing it, you should have prescribed that they must provide bank guarantees in some serious amount. Because what happens if the employer doesn't pay that employed employee all the things provided for in this law? What, he's gonna sue, and then he's gonna get a working dispute in five years? So many minimum durations of minimum labour disputes in Serbia. So, by this law, you've never taken care of an employee in any way. Your target group is employers. Of course, we don't mind. Employers must have certain conditions, they must have good conditions to open up companies, to invest. It's all normal and we accept it all, but the employee can't be the last rag anyone can wipe off the floor. First, he can't work for a minimum wage of 30,000 dinars, from which he can't fill that lowest consumer basket. It must have at least 37,000 dinars. We, people, in Serbia have 300,000 people who work for a minimumer and 400,000 who have only a thousand dinars more than the minimum. The colleague said here – this law will stop the grey economy. How? How are they going to fight this agency employment law? It's not here, it doesn't say anything about how it's going to be contained, and we all know, it's a public secret in Serbia that about 70% of the people who receive the minimum wage, which is still 27,022 dinars, 5,000 dinars must be returned to the employer in cash. That's what we used to say to Alexander Vukic when he represented the exposés here as prime minister and then he said he knew about the phenomenon and that the government would do anything to stop her from being there. Believe me, that phenomenon is not reduced. It still exists. Here, problem again. You may have good intentions, but, say, you don't have inspectors. People are afraid to report something like this because it's never happened that the inspection works side by side. Never. In order to sue, he has to contact the labour inspector first, so only when he gets the opinion and the position of the labour inspector can he sue. But labour inspectors regularly side with the employer because maybe after the application he takes a walk, he goes with the employer to lunch, they chat a little bit, he hangs out, and what he's going to do, he has to come up with an opinion that's not in the interests of the employee. Then it's run by the court later, and then that's how everything happens. So, stay away from the Employment Agency, get rid of the public sector employment ban, hire people at the competition, not for a certain time, not party staff, hire people who are trained, who have professional training, who have regularly completed colleges, so that finally local self-government and state self-government can work more seriously in the interest of absolutely all citizens living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65160	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a proposing representative, Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65161	Thank you. It's precisely on the trail of this inspiring discussion by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet, I just want to point out for the public certain things that correspond to the truth. So, as for paying groups and paying classes, that they exist and are introduced, they exist in the system of state authorities, they were introduced as of 1 January 2007, and then the Law on salaries of civil servants and tenants was adopted and the law was reformed. As you know, state authorities include ministries, special organisations, ministry bodies, court employees, defences, prosecutions and, of course, employees of independent state bodies. There are 13 paying groups and eight paying classes. As progress is fought, every two years it is possible to raise a civil servant for a single paying group based on impact and evaluation. What is our intensity is that this coverage of about 40,000 employees to which this system applies, we raise to all public services, which would amount to over 400,000. The criticism that we haven't provided an excuse for why this is delayed, I don't think it stands. I've made it very clear what the reasons are and how complex it is to introduce the implementation of this pay reform system. I think it's much more important to do it in a wise, smart way, as fast as possible, but not a quick way. It is true that ministers and various governments have promised to reform the wage system and that is not at all controversial, but I think that since 2015 we have done a lot to come into a position to apply this system since 1 January 2012. I don't see anything controversial in the fact that I've given an argument as to why we're practically delaying application until 1 January 2012. We had not previously had these four new laws on salaries or we had system law, nor had a catalogue of jobs, nor were they practically implemented catalogues of jobs in the systematization of all public services. When we talk about public services, so we are talking, I repeat, about 400,000 people, about specificities that exist in various public services from health, education, social services, culture, tourism, etc., about the need to talk to both ministries and relevant ministers and, of course, to the unions, to get to the least common denominator, or to someone, as much consensus as possible. So I'd say we gave a very clear argument, but we're going to have a chance to repeat it during this session, so I don't see any problem. As for the above-mentioned deficit of inspectors in the various inspections they have, if I am not mistaken, 44 at the level of the Republic, I would just remind myself that the Serbian Government has reached a conclusion based on an action plan and a functional analysis in the functioning of an inspection carried out by the coordinating body for inspection supervision, that conclusion provides for a reception of 1.281, if I am not mistaken, precisely, a new inspector in the period from the next three years. We have also raised the status of inspectors and their incomes so that even this criticism that is well-intentioned, I am confident, does not stand in full capacity. What is also important, we are talking about this alleged assessment that is not objective, which can sometimes lead to abuses. We've come to terms with that, and last year, in this house you voted, as who, of course, but it's been passed the Law on civil servants in the state bodies, where we've introduced competences and where we want to objectively objectify that grade and simply bring things into order, in this way. I think we've also shown the willingness and seriousness that we're practically managing both people and the effects of these people in a new way, so that they can be rewarded. Following what you said, I am convinced that the introduction of paying groups and paying classes is something needed by the state of Serbia, public service employees, and, of course, to others. I'm sure we'll do it on January 1st, 2021. We'll see all the benefits that one such wage reform carries, primarily for the employees, but also for the functioning of the system itself. As for the law of my colleague, Zoran Djordjevic, I am convinced that he will have a very clear argument, given that he is currently officially absent, but is returning very soon. We have a whole day or maybe two days or three days ahead of us, where a clear argument will explain what is referred to as criticism to the effects of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65162	Thank you, Minister Rose. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65163	The previous regime remained remembered for the term "transparency", and you will remain under the term "implementation". I suppose you want to fascinate the people when they listen to you, and then Minister Ruzic, who otherwise loves to use some unusual expressions, says my discussion "does not corrosorate" with the truth. It's like everyone understands that I'm the one who gave the false information. No, it's not true. Everything I said was absolutely true. If you claim that we have paid classes, then I don't know why you have mentioned at the end now that there are paying classes and paying groups to be perfected, and besides, turn to Ana Brnabic for not giving statements that are misinformation. She says what we're saying must be done by the Payment Class Act. The law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants is not the law, Mr. Ruzic and you know it well, but here I am telling you again sounds good. A thousand and 200 and more inspectors, you say, you'll receive in the next three years. Get them now. It can't wait three years for illegal construction. I can't have problems in, I don't know, which are within the jurisdiction of a trade inspector waiting three years. He can't wait three years for what's in the jurisdiction of the labour inspectorate and all these 40 inspectorates. So don't be afraid to do that job that's really in the interest of the citizens. Do not be afraid that someone will tell you – behold, you have received a thousand people. We repeat, call the competition and receive truly people who know how to work and who finished, normal, regular colleges. Just one more sentence. You say – last year a law was passed to reduce the abuse in the assessment of employees and then you introduced competence as a criterion. Indeed, something that was undefined could not be introduced. That's all it's ever done, and it's the only source of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65164	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Minister Branko Ruzic is represented by the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65165	I really thank you for this clarification. I never intended to use any hard word, don't let God tell me that someone is telling lies, because I certainly don't expect any responsible MP, but when I say that something doesn't correspond to the truth, it's a fact. The fact is that paying classes and paying groups do not exist, for example. at the level of units of local self-government, and this is stated in previous address. So, I said by what law and what sphere of pay groups and paying classes, in which spheres exist. I said there are 13 paying groups, eight paying classes, and that's about 40,000 employees. You're right, too, when you repeat what the Prime Minister said, that it is necessary to introduce paying groups and paying classes in the entire public sector, so both you and the prime minister and I, when we talk about it. So I'm talking about making a much bigger embrace that way, so I don't see any reason for misunderstanding, for controversy. I don't see this as a controversy at all. I think it's useful for you to use your criticism to point to any problems, and that, if we are able, we answer with honor, honestly and clearly. I'm trying to do it, and I'm gonna do it and I'm gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65166	Thank you, Minister Rose. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65167	I think it's in the spirit of parliamentary democracy not to be the Minister's last. The minister has now confessed to what I've been saying since the beginning. We don't have payment classes and paying groups for all public sector employees. So this is what we think is necessary to do and that it is necessary to remove the ban on employment in the public sector, not because the hat and the handful of people are employed in the state bodies, but because there are really jobs that are not covered, and that because of the uncoveredness, first of all, inspection jobs, people in the field have serious problems. This is what the SRS insists on and constantly draws attention to you and you keep promising that this will happen from next year and years after year, here, this is the last budget and the last of these laws that are related to the Budget Law, which will be passed in this assembly of the National Assembly. You haven't fulfilled a single promise. No pay grade, no employment ban. This year has passed without coordinating pensions for pensioners, because you disobeyed us, because in law you did not predict that pensions must be coordinated in a certain way. You said - it'll be the ministers to agree. We knew that there was nothing going on since that job, and in 2019 it went, exactly as we said, without an increase, or a harmonisation, it might also be a reduction, especially under this law that you predicted, which was in that first group that was already being discussed here. So we just want, for the sake of the public, and you said yourself that you wanted to explain for the public, we are not hiding, we are talking here, first of all, to the public and we want the public to know how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65168	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65169	So, the Modern Serbian Party will devote most of this presentation to one of the four laws that are in the package. Three laws that apply only to moving deadlines are understood as a way that, when implementing things that are somewhat complex, it is not burned to be well prepared, so, on the other hand, it is quite fine. What's worse is to prepare something that's relatively complex, not prepare it properly, and when the time comes to realize it, it's back-to-back and it's more problems than benefits. So that the gro-exposure of mine will be dedicated precisely to the Agency Employment Act, which sets legal frameworks for a practice that still exists today, which is a practice that is popularly referred to as working force licking, to be introduced into appropriate legal frameworks, in a way that, I would say, gives the parties involved in such a kind of contract a slightly greater legal certainty than it has been so far. Also, I will highlight some other things that address the challenges that will await Serbia on a very similar subject, called the theme of reference. I'm going to talk about it later, as well as about thinking that in some ways, this law is late because the reality of the labour market has become fundamentally different than it was at a time when the licking was condemned as the creation of a pretense in Serbia. The first thing where we have one remark, and it is formal and quite principled, is clearly defined in Article 2, that the agency can grant employment to a company that is registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and has activity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, in Articles 10 and 12, I always welcome, transitional provisions. Articles 10 and 12 introduce two provisions that have a transitional character, which relate to labour concessions in EU countries, i.e. European economic areas. Of course, we as a very Europhilic party, which supports Serbia's European path and even Serbia in the West, sees as a civilization's mission to change Serbia for the better, of course we support that in legal solutions we have members with transitional provisions to apply, we would say as soon as possible, i.e. The moment that Serbia becomes part of the EU, but from that point of view then we have a vague connection between the members of the 2nd and the 12th members, because Article 2 in itself can be interpreted as a possibility for workers to be able to do so on the day that it really was possible, i.e. when we become part of the EU, enjoying all four freedoms, so that we can have a classic case of posting workers in the territory of the EU, or European economic areas. The second remark that we have, I mean, it's not essentially something that employers can't remove and agencies, that's a slight misunderstanding, but it's to introduce a concept of a parallel workplace. It's for big systems pretty simple. You, when you have the workforce that the agency directs to the employer who has the systematization, has everything big systems have, the parallel job is not hard to find. Also, the lower-speak criterion is that the worker cannot be sent through the agency to a place of pay that is lower by workers who have the same professional equipment. In this regard, we have a milder, perhaps a little stronger, how can I say, wintering, for the simple reason that there are companies that, by the rule of law, have quite a professional workforce, and if they are given the need to hire through an agency someone who will do simpler jobs, I'm afraid that we might be in trouble with simply being able to get those companies out of the picture to engage labour through agencies. I repeat, this does not essentially change the above law, but it is one area where certain problems may arise. What we must commend, unlike these two chills, is definitely contained in Article 14, which is that a rather reasonable compromise has been found, which is that you can also hire 100% of the workforce through agencies, but provided that these people are constantly employed by the agency. It is a compromise, but on the other hand, I also think that the 10% number for the engagement of people who are employed in the agency at a certain time is too low, and that this will lead to the awakening of engagement through youth cooperatives of people who could be engaged in a way that is still better from the point of view of the rights of employees, which is engagement through agencies. On that side, we think it's 10% too low, that in other countries we have it better placed. Let's say, in Slovenia, if I'm not mistaken, it's 25% or 30% and that would simply be a better legal solution. Also, for companies up to 10 employees, we don't think there's any particular need to do this in percentages, small companies should be allowed the opportunity to become large, and when they become large then you already have much better instruments that can appear. As far as the public sector is concerned, and there are certain improvements, especially where agency employment is no longer possible and it is clear that those engaged through agencies are entering all the restrictions that exist in relation to public sector employment. Also, we have a pretty good and creative provision that shows that you can come up with something better than simply punishing unconscious employers, and that's the provision that says - you can continue to engage after a certain deadline that the law prescribes, but then it will be considered that this person is permanently employed, which is one solution. It's always best in law to make such a solution that has automatic law-abiding mechanisms, whatever you want to do. However, what is important in agency employment, when this practice in Serbia was created, we had people who were so employed most often in very poor jobs. So these were people on the sidelines of the labour market, who were having a hard time finding jobs and where agency employment was used to do pretty bad jobs, with a much smaller degree of labour rights, for very low wages. What happened in the meantime was that the labour market in Serbia changed by two forces. One force was to stabilise public finances, create a little better business environment that encouraged people and foreign investors to come to Serbia and start business. On the other hand, what essentially transformed the labour market in Serbia, which is a challenge to which there will be no simple answers, and it will take a long time to negotiate, if we do not want to start lagging behind, both in reforms and in Serbia's development, is a large number of people who have found their jobs outside Serbia. We already have branches where you can't find workers, any, any free work. You can't find drivers in Belgrade, so pensioners do, because there's no one to drive buses. You can't even find taxi drivers today when you call them, because taxi drivers went from Belgrade to work elsewhere, but they didn't sell licenses to our accident, so sometimes it's impossible to find a taxi, there's no people physically. In many other branches you can't find people to hire, you can't find any, and that essentially changes the labour market, and on the side that employers have trouble developing, which today when they hire someone they have to invest a lot more in training these people, because first they go to those who have the best knowledge and sustainable skills. What essentially reshapes the labour market is that it has increased the negotiating power, not the unions, but every single worker. It is also good that we have the Agency's Law, but the fears that Serbia will create a prenuptial, i.e. lumpenproletariat or workers living on the margins and cannot enjoy the rights that make up a decent life in Serbia, have simply become baseless. There has been a reduction in labour supply, especially highly qualified, and we have a relative increase in the number of employers, and this is seen in the reduction of the number of non-employees and this process will not be halted in the years to come. On that side, what happened was that the negotiating power of the labor force grew everywhere, and from that point on, the agency law itself and certain fears we heard from the union representatives simply have no basis. In most branches, it will come to the conclusion that workers will be very easy to achieve their rights, because they will not be enough, but that will again be one major challenge that will require much more thinking, much more work, much more creative solutions and much less devalue logic in any part of the Republic of Serbia, both in the private and public sectors. So, before us is the transformation of the labour market and it will last and will not change in the next five to six years, whatever we do here. We can just slow down and hope things turn around. On that side, any fear is simply a story from a time that was before, and what is a question for the future and that somewhat comes out of the domain of this law is exactly how we're going to solve this problem, which is going to be more and more pronounced, because in many branches we have literally a decline in performance, a decline in the number of qualified people, a deterioration in the processes of work in many businesses, not because it's wanted, but because people don't know how to do it. That's something, I say, that's going to be a big, big challenge. We've had some more things that we could praise at the Agency Act, some other things that can be ashamed of, but I really think life will simply erase a good part of what's standing here, but, I say, there will always be people who will work through the agencies for a wide variety of reasons. The whole process of the agency's work can be directed in a completely different direction than that. Instead of representing people from the labour market, to start, say, representing people who are the best on the labour market and to make an example. exclusive contracts, and precisely because we will have a shortage of qualified labour in many areas, especially with sustainable skills. Since the debate in principle is one wonderful thing, to look ahead, to watch strategically what can be done in Serbia, to make it better in Serbia, and if we should look into the challenges in the eyes, rather than react reactively, which has often been a practice to react to something that is bad, instead of seeing that there is a challenge and then reacting proactively and challenging the remaining chance for Serbia, I will open up a topic called the reference topic, but abroad. At this point, one of the biggest battles fought in the EU is exactly the battle on the status of workers headed to other countries. At this point, you have an absolute conflict of countries that have high paid labour, which see workers coming from poor countries of the Union as unfair competition. On the other hand, you have a bloc of countries that view exactly those countries that have a high labour price as countries of the deformed labour market, lazy people who want to work for a little bit of money and see themselves as fresh blood that changes the EU for the better. It is currently a major conflict that exists in the EU. There is no unique view of it, there is a need for compromise solutions, and what a smart country would do at this point, and I hope that the Republic of Serbia will be more smart and smarter every day and respond better to external challenges, is our strategy of what we are doing at that moment so that we simply do not overlook how important this is and how important it is that we stand in a good way, whatever we choose, and that our choice is a choice that is in favour of Serbia, but also the freedom of citizens who have the right to base their working relations and build their future in the way they want and in the way they want to do it. I don't want to anymore, since this is one law that's not too long, which doesn't have any excessive disadvantages. What I have stated, the technical question of the integration of Articles 2 and 10 and 12, as well as the issue of the parallel salary on the same technical provision, are two issues that extremely touch us. Other things don't have any more significant drawbacks. What is important to say, when you have the Labour Act around which trade unions and employers essentially don't slaughter, employers were more satisfying, which is to me, as someone who is more pro-market-oriented and who likes to create values, dearly, it will be that this law is pretty good, but even the trade unions didn't have any fundamental strategic objections to the text of the law, so this would end my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65170	I thank my colleague Stevanović. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot say that the discussion of the previous speaker was not appropriate. It says - people change. Just dead and stupid don't change, and I hope we're not dead or stupid and I'm glad people change their minds. You cannot be for the European Union and free flow of people, capital and goods, and then resent the departure of a number of people from Serbia to work there. If we're for free flow of people, then we can't ban people from moving around the EU and looking for a better job than they have here. The constitution also guarantees to every Serbian citizen that he can leave Serbia and return to Serbia. Many of those who have gone to the EU will return their knowledge to Serbia. Except that at first sight they leave because of better wages, they in a certain way, I am sure that if this authority remains in the longer term, they will return to Serbia and return with enriched knowledge and thus contribute to Serbia's progress even better. Also, in terms of lack of masters, plumbers, masonry, locksmiths, sawmills, the fact is all the previous speaker said, these are the facts, that you can't find certain profiles on the labour market today. There are two reasons. One reason is that there was no dual education and a few months ago and a year ago you were against dual education and you were talking about how only masters would be illiterate in Serbia, that people would not be educated etc. And a year later you say there's not enough masters, there's not enough locksmiths, there's not enough water-installers, there's not enough builders, there's not enough scrapers, etc. They have to balance, I respect the opposition, but they have to balance their discussions and say what they really are for. Another reason for the lack of labour is increased employment, not only departure, and should be recognised by the new authorities that they hired over 300,000 people, but should be recognised by the team before they are not people employed in the public sector. Since 2012, there have been fewer in the public sector here, right, Mr. Orlic, at least a few tens of thousands of people. So in 2012, we had that there were more public sector employees than in the real sector, that the real sector lived as it had to, and publicly as it will. This power and the ruling set turned it to the benefit of the real sector, in favour of production. That is why, of course, the lack of labour as a second reason, and the first of course is that people have the right to leave Serbia and return to Serbia, but I believe that they will come with enriched knowledge and that Serbia will soon be ranked by some European countries. What else do you say about the Agency for the Prevention of Work on Black? First, there's no distortion of competition, which so far has been the case. If someone is working on black, it can be more competitive and can do a lot of damage to the one who pays all the employees he has reported, who pays all the contributions, and that's what this temporary agency law does to contribute to reducing the black work to a great deal. It is not only a distortion of competition of work on black, but it will result in fund filling, the PIO Fund will be fuller, the Health Fund will be fuller, local self-government will benefit from the salary tax. So, everyone will benefit from it and the workforce will benefit by being declared, by being able to achieve their pension rights in time and in the amount they really earned and earned. The lack of labour in the market will lead to a rise in wages. Employers do not hire workers because they love them, especially in the real sector, but because they need them to earn profits and I think the relationship between profits and labour will be balanced. That the workforce will get more, that the diaries will grow, that the wages will grow and they are now, that our citizens should know, and the minimum and average salaries are 50% higher than in 2012. The best indicator is PIO. In 2012, with 508 billion paid out, it seems to me that 273 billion in pensions per year have been allocated out of the budget because the PIO Fund was almost empty. The following year, according to a budget proposal of 600 and a few billion paid pensions, it seems to me that 157 billion, unless I'm wrong, or a billion euros less than in 2012, despite pensions that are larger than 100 billion. This is the best indication that real people are employed, that contributions to PIO insurance are paid, and this is certainly due to this government that has implemented reforms not only fiscally but also many others that have contributed to Serbia's better development since 2012. The fight against the gray economy. That's where we have to take care of the media. The media most critical of the government is disrupting competition with domestic media. The RTS question, where we raised the tax is a big question. Serbia's radio television doesn't complain at all because some fake cross-border televisions are working on black and because they are thus taking part of their advertising market and reducing revenues. The fact that unregistered TV, type N1, fake cross-border, type Nova S, type Sports clubs, because we only care about sports channels, the biggest revenues on the advertising market, these cross-border fake channels come true in sport and entertainment. It's TV Grand and TV Sports Clubs, which are 13. Thus, through this and through advertising to domestic advertising that are also illegal part of the cake to domestic media is taken and I find it interesting that RTS does not object because they are aware that citizens will pay them through an increase in their subscription for leaving part of their advertising space to the anti-candidal functioning of fake cross-border television. If it wasn't for that, we could not have increased taxis to finance RTS. Serbia's radio television does not object too much to convey the most important sports events to which it, RTS and other channels covering the whole market of the Republic of Serbia, has exclusive right. So on the list of most important events are sports events and European championships, world championships, Olympic Games, qualifications, etc. and RTS never complains because it deals with the Darekt Media and Gilasov and Šolak companies, and therefore it never objects to exercise rights that have not only RTS, but other channels that cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia, that those rights that have been passed on to sports from the list of most important events and come true. In such a way, these important cross-border channels because of sports and people's desire to see transfers, increase the number of subscribers on the one hand, and on the other hand, by breaking the law, make it impossible for viewers who remain uncovered to watch their football, their basketball, their volleyball team. That should stop, and because RTS doesn't work, we as MPs have to do it and bring in fake cross-border channels by more known rights. This advertising market is worth more than 80m euros in care, how much advertising is broadcast in Serbian in alleged Luxembourg televisions that do not broadcast the programme in Luxembourg, and are reportedly recasting the programme from Luxembourg without broadcasting. This has been going on for several years, and I understand that the government doesn't have any excessive mechanisms, because these channels also need cable operators to bring in a more known right to bring in the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media who don't want it, because certain officials are most likely on the payroll of School and Gilas, and they don't want to impose on the SSB that this kind of fake cross-border channels, which take bread from domestic televisions and that in some ways try to destroy the state of Serbia, because their programming directors are probably funding from drug dealers from Albania, so they act on me in a certain way against the state, so this way of informing REM doesn't want to stop me, too, because it's probably because certain officials in REM are on the payroll of Gilas and Šlak, and they don't want to impose wild channels from such markets. Also, these wild channels reduce profits by getting money from SSB to use these cross-border channels by several euros per user, and domestic media from the SSB are getting nothing. In this way, money is pumped from the Republic of Serbia and there is no profit tax. The SSB shows losses because it transferred money to Luxembourg on TV. In Luxembourg, they don't pay taxes, because they don't broadcast the program there, and here they claim they're cross-border Luxembourg TV, so they don't pay taxes here, they don't pay SOKOJ, they don't pay REM, they don't pay RATL, they don't pay anything of what domestic television is paying. If the state had collected those revenues, not enough for RTS, it would have been enough for the state to increase its budget and to raise more schools, more hospitals, etc. I believe that our workforce will be qualified enough that part of the labour force in the years to come will return to the Republic of Serbia, that the Republic of Serbia will grow in gross domestic products, that it will continue to have almost zero inflation, low inflation, that there will continue to be no growth in the course, that the growth of the foreign reserve, that gold reserves will grow, that exports will grow, that import coverage will grow with exports and that every day this country will move forward and that we will brick by brick, from nothing we have found to make a well-developed economically developed country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65172	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65173	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support a whole set of laws that are on the agenda today and which we are discussing, which is what we are discussing. There are also well-founded reasons for this. In my discussion, I will start with the order that you are also in the assembly for the session of this Assembly, starting first of all from a set of laws proposed by the ministry whose head of the respected ministers you are at, and then in a comment I would touch with certain, not only suggestions, but also opportunities for the law to be improved by quality, not to mention criticism, when it comes to the Agency Employment Act. As for your set of laws, Your Honors Ministers, it is no doubt that the essence of everything that we have commented on today and what you have brought before the MPs here is redefine the deadlines for the application of these laws and I am confident that all of us in the SPS parliamentary group have given the most meaningful and logical reasons why the redefining of deadlines must be accepted. Of course, these reasons have both factual and legal basis, particularly because it is a complex issue which, without further analysis, without monitoring the situation and without solving each individual and case, as well as a segment cannot be brought to life in a practical sense in the way that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect it from the Government, which means that the Payment Class Act in a practical sense lives in full capacity. Of course, from that point of view, you also have a strong reason when you say that the specificities of each sector in the public sector require special attention and require an analysis of everything that has not been covered so far. In particular, given the indisputable fact that we have established financial stability, that we have established fiscal stability, that we have one budget that involves, in relation to the previous ones in continuity, the preservation and stability and, of course, the degree of sustainability that is now in fact established in such a way that concerns about the future, when it comes to the economy and finance of the Republic of Serbia do not exist. What is very important is that you have touched on one topic that has great importance for the SPS parliamentary group, which is the working legal status and position of those layers that deserve the highest degree of attention in social terms, and these are civil servants and tenants. I spoke of the right layer, i.e. about the deputies recently, at the previous sessions of this House, when I pointed to the position of the court's deputies, insisting that we also have in the budget an item that implies at least a slight shift forward when it comes to improving the working-law status of this category of employees. Of course, as part of the paying classes and civil servants and deputies expect that, after the establishment and application of the laws we are talking about today, this position will be at the level that includes absolute social protection and, of course, what it means, an even better standard of living, but not just those categories, but all other categories, when it comes to employees in the Republic of Serbia. What is the ultimate goal of all the laws that you have proposed today is when the practical application of these laws occurs that we have an uncontested principle that will liven up, which is the principle - the same salary for the same job. It is important to see what profits are low, which are excessively high and that, on the basis of the most justified criteria, rather than the complexity of the business, with regard to liability and risks, target relations within the public sector are defined. We are confident in the SPS parliamentary group that you are achieving this goal and that, just as you have explained to the MPs, and thus to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are contributing to accepting, with due understanding, the reasons why the application, i.e. the start of the period of application of these laws, is delayed. I have to remind you of one fact that you didn't point out today, and it's certain that you're operating with it, that the salaries in the public sector are currently based on 23 different bases. That there are more than 500 basic coefficients for the profit calculation and over 200 additions to the basic salary. What's this about? It's about the fact that this principle is causing certain consequences that are sometimes not pleasant, and especially not favourable, given that mostly disputed relations are resolved through courts, that court proceedings are quite long, that employees spend quite the time, energy, not to say and money, to the achievement of those rights which, in any case, can be protected in a far greater degree exactly the way you have suggested and explained it, and that is when practical application of these laws takes place in full capacity. Because of all this, as well as those reasons that you initially presented, the PG of the Socialist Party of Serbia has no reason but to respect your reasons, to provide full support and to vote in favour of this set of laws. When it comes to the law relating to the Employment Agency and all that is expected by the Employment Agency, we need to point out a few facts that we think are very important. First, what the distinguished colleague Radeta pointed out is the fact that at the level of local self-government there are agencies through which certain persons are employed. When I say working, it means that, for the time being, agencies are engaged in insufficiently justified normative acts, in a lack of normative regulation, carrying out the job of employment mediators, and that is, as it is said in a pesorative manner, the employment on the lease, i.e. the employees on the lease. For the first time, we are now in a position to standardize the Employment Agency in the right way, systematically, and that is one move that is good, regardless of the criticisms that can be accepted as reasonable and established. But in any case, we avoid the verse, we avoid the momentum that so far existed when it comes to the employment agencies at the level of local self-government. This triangle agency-employer-employee should in no case be at the expense of employees. Why am I saying this? Because so far without sufficient regulation, without sufficient justification in norms that must be extremely effective in the practical sense of words, we have had a situation where persons working through agencies are placed in a discriminatory position in relation to employees who are directly engaged by the employer. Why am I saying this? Well, because the agencies, and I think they are now, but even so, in a way that is normal for us properly, are referred to or dismissed to the employer. Now, this, the protracted employer, in my opinion, is a very bad term, given that employees are far from a commodity to give in, on the one hand, that the concession implies something quite different from what a kind of humanism, morality and any other aspect that must be applied when it comes to the position of employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in order to avoid a pre-pariat which my distinguished colleague spoke of earlier, I mean fully established and completely for a reason. What motivated employees to engage through the agency so far? First of all, it's easier to get to work. Why the easier way? Because the employer had to follow the provisions of the Labour Act, to discuss competitions, to present more candidates in competitions, that there is a lower degree of certainty that someone is working through the competition compared to the certainty given to him through the agency. But what's the problem? The problem is that so far, agencies have acted exclusively profitablely. The agency wasn't interested in anything but income acquisitions. This trap, which implies that the Agency earns profits, that the employer, on the other hand, benefit from certain savings, and that the employee remains in an unfavourable or discriminatory position, must be eliminated. We in the PG SPS on this categorically insist on having an idea that is woven through both our program and through our operation and everything we do, which is the idea of social justice. What we insist as socialists is the obligation to equalise the rights and obligations of all employees, and those who work through the agency and those directly hired by the employer. What's the problem, distinguished representatives from the Ministry of Labour, social issues? The problem is quite complex, and for an explanation it's simple. The agencies had one position, one status that implies the following way of doing things. The Agency shall refer to the employer, employer and, without a notice, may cancel the contract of employment with the employee so far, no longer so far. What does it mean to cancel a work contract? This means that employees in the situation are already left without legal protection mechanisms, how to protect their rights. If he is employed by the agency, not the employer, then the agency would be naturally obliged and obliged to provide adequate protection. Has the agency done so far? It's not. Does he have to do that now? Of course he has to. What is also very important to point out is the fact that the employer has significantly less costs of canceling the work contract, at least so far. What does that mean? That means it's simple to fire an employee. What's the position of the employee then? Not a word of it. Do we need to provide adequate protection from all aspects of the employee? We have to and there's not a single dilemma about it, nor should it be the subject of any comment or conversation, not even in a colloquial sense of the word. What is being raised here as a question is the obligation of the Agency for the Protection of the Rights of Employees when the employer causes damage to the employee. Radeta's colleague has raised that question, and I'm going to relate to that question. Article 33 of the proposed law states that there is a subsidiary responsibility of the Agency unless the employer compensates the employees. I will ask you to listen carefully to a comment which I hope will be as clear to both you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is next. Why is there a subsidiary responsibility? Why isn't there a solidarity responsibility? Why isn't the Agency in full responsibility with the employer? Why would the Agency come in line only after the employer? As an employee, I have every right to seek compensation from either the employer or the Agency. In the end, there's a so-called. the principle of objective responsibility for an employee, in principle of objective responsibility, is the employer responsible. If the employee is working and in relation to work causes any third damage, the employer is responsible for doing so in solidarity with the employee. Then why wouldn't this place be a solid responsibility of the Agency along with the employer? Then the employee will be easier to exercise his right. Maybe the employer can't, maybe the employer doesn't have that option because the employer's credit rating is very bad, because he can't financially withstand that burden of responsibility and compensation. But in that situation, the Agency would have to, not take it over, but be in a solidarity with the employer. Finally, what I think is very important when it comes to this law is that you have a good angle of observation in the reasoning given today by a respected minister, in relation to this law, when it comes to limiting the number of persons employed through the Employment Agency. That's 10%. I think that percentage, though, can be disputable, but it's essentially good to define itself to prevent intrusion, to prevent the verse and to prevent volunteering from employers, because then the employer can literally calculate. He'll fire 10, hire three, etc. I don't want to banalize the whole story right now, but basically, if that's not the norm, we're going into an additional social problem. We SPS MPs support equalising employees' rights, both those who have worked through the agency and those who engage directly by the employer in all aspects, as regards the right to work, as regards the right to vacation, with regard to all those rights covered by the Labour Law, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international documents. It is indisputable that you and this law have entered into the process of something Serbia has been doing for a long time, which is harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation. In that sense, you've done a lot. What needs to be done further, and what needs to be taken into account further, is something that the respected colleague Stepanovic asked as a question, and this question implies a way of additional protection of employees after sending the agency to the employer. There's a possibility of a problem around here somewhere. What's the problem? There may be a problem for the agency to stop any obligations towards the employee, to bring everything down to an employer who has not essentially taken the burden of liability in a way that the employee deserves and is entitled to, and on the other hand, the agency will certainly benefit. If we go in that justice to allow only the agency to obtain certain incomes or benefits, and we do not have the protection of employees in an adequate way, then in no case should it systematically survive. In the end, I would like to ask you once again that what I am on behalf of our Socialist and MPs groups of the SPS has pointed out accept only as well-intentioned suggestions, to accept that this is our need that because of the ideal of social justice that really stands in everything that we do and how we behave accept from another aspect, which is an aspect of social satisfaction for all those who must not be threatened socially, and on the other hand to allow them to improve their standard of living, and this standard of living in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you for the attention you've given me. Once again, the SPS will support the set of laws you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65174	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Comrade Radeta, you're in the system. You wanted on what grounds? I didn't notice your colleague mentioning you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65175	You see how nice it is when MPs listen to each other and when opportunities are created for controversy, which is the purpose of our existence, among other things, in this National Assembly. My colleague Nedjo Jovanovic and I, or the Socialists, were making a conceptual distinction, primarily because of the fact that the Socialists are part of the ruling coalition that favours Serbia's entry into the EU, and we Serbian radicals are absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU. As lawyers, my colleague Jovanovic and I had little difference when it comes to the draft agency employment law. The basis that I reported is that my colleague noticed what I was saying, and Minister Djordjevic showed me from the scene that it is not true, that there are already agencies through which people are employed in local self-governments. It's true that it's quite a verse, that it's not in line with the Labour Act. It's true that people are exploited through these agencies, doing the same jobs with those who are employed in local self-government, and they get much less pay. In the context of what my colleague Jovanovic was saying, I simply came up with one question, which I had just missed. What happens to an employee who's been assigned by the agency to work at the moment that the agency stops working? It's in this law undefined. It is said that it has been established and prescribed when the agency, under which conditions it ceases to work, but no answer has been given in law to the question of what will happen to these people who have been resigned by the agency by other authorities to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65176	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go. You have no basis, colleague Jovanic, for replication. Don't deepen the debate when you're not mentioned. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65177	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, Mr Ruzic and his associates outside the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and respected ministers of labour, employment and social affairs, who have just arrived because he was justly absent. This important date should be mentioned, why the minister was absent. Today, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities was held in the National Assembly by a large set of support for disabled persons under the password “People with Disabilities That Changed the World. ” As an MP in front of JS Parliamentary Group Dragan Markovic Palma, the socially responsible party, which also has two MPs in the Labour Committee, we will give full support to persons with disabilities, together with our SPS colleagues, and we will certainly fight to improve their position here in the National Assembly, as well as for a better position in employment. The JS parliamentary group will support the bill issued by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which is on the agenda today, but we will also support all 16 proposals in this debate and the first and second debate. Today, we will focus on these laws from the Ministry of State and local self-government which are certainly very important because they talk about the material and financial security of employees and at all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the salaries of public sector employees, as well as the salaries of public agencies established or founded by the Republic of Serbia, units of local self-government or autonomous province. Since these laws are very close and conditional on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we voted last week for 2020, which the National Assembly adopted, certainly the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to pay employees in the public sector, but also to pay all employees, whether in the public or in the private sector, speak or guarantee better quality of life for each citizen of Serbia. Certainly, security in increasing wages, increasing pensions, and JS MPs will always prefer to vote for an increase in pensions, since this is the category of population who has suffered the most difficult reforms and who have remained consistent with this government, who have realised that this is both for their own benefit and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the future of our children, so that this allows for the creation of new jobs when it comes to the private sector, bringing foreign investment and foreign investors. We from JS, led by Dragan Markovic, Palm, when it comes to foreign investors, can talk about the importance of foreign investors and foreign investments that have entered the Republic of Serbia, because in Jagodina alone more than 16 foreign investors have opened their factories and given the possibility of hiring people at national employment services, so that there is now absolutely great employment in this city, as well as in much part of Serbia, where there is hardly a month without a foreign investor entering its capital. If we talk about the period until 2012, there was a total destruction of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, which remained almost empty, where there were large and million debts, where people lost jobs and stayed on the streets. Now we have a completely different picture. Of course, the reforms couldn't have come overnight. Step by step, they conditioned a slight increase in both wages and pensions. However, of course, by respecting indeed and, here as an MP, last week I voted for two proposals from the opposition, of course, MPs who sit and come to the National Assembly, and not MPs who do not come to the National Assembly and receive salaries, so that Verica Radeta, a fellow SRS colleague, has indeed made very good proposals when it comes to public sector wages and when it comes to agencies that are involved in intervening in the employment of local workers, who do exist, and when it comes to occasional and temporary jobs. Only one such responsible policy, certainly, led by Aleksandar Vucic, but everyone present here in the National Assembly, where in the current year we have passed very important laws, where we have brought a budget that is very good, which is developmental, we can continue to pass the law. Of course, the laws we make, if certain gaps are proved later, we always have conditions to correct, but it is important to work in continuity and to work towards the progress of the Republic of Serbia, because everything is in favour of not only the internal plan, but also the foreign policy, the Republic of Serbia, its citizens, enjoy growing and greater reputation and that Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic has also proved that the 17th country that has withdrawn recognition of the independent state of Kosovo, is increasingly withdrawing decisions that are on the agenda in international institutions, the recognition of an independent state of Kosovo, so that it is in fact today's picture of Serbia. We should not look back, we should not stumble, neither here in the National Assembly, nor the president of the Republic of Serbia, on every stone thrown. Of course, all this has been happening lately and what the opposition is placing and in the paper is causing one uncertainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but any false news can be denied and the citizens of Serbia know that the absolute Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, everything it proposes, proposes for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about a bill on public sector salaries, this is about regulation of deadlines. You, Minister, have proved it here in fact, so we certainly need to move on to the implementation of these new solutions and to the new pay system. When we talk about paying classes, we certainly need to create a unique pattern and formula. In practice, technically, there is this now, but reform still needs to be done on this, so that all these facts that you have stated, which are in the law, are undeniably showing us as Members of the Unique Serbia that we will give full support to changes, implementation, changes and additions to this law, or that we will vote for this law. We also have taxes that are increased to public service. In essence, it is not a big increase, but it is quite enough to create greater responsibility for the Public Service and all public service employees, to increase the ratings of people who, in fact, give their trust to the Public Service. We have already talked about paying classes, and our colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, that it certainly needs work, contribution and engagement to be valued. The deadlines here have been rerouted to 2020, therefore, moved. As regards the contribution based on remuneration and work, it was transferred to 2021, simply to see the impact of 2019 and 2020. Then we have a ban on public sector employment. It is very important and we talked about it when the budget was adopted, because there are a lot of young people, young lawyers, economists who really need to learn, who need to be hired and to stop the earlier policy, where we now see, from that period before 2012, there are still young people who are unemployed, where national services really shouldn't be just the technical sector, but they have to take care of every person on the Bureau or the National Employment Service. We can't allow it, I have an example from my local self-government, where a person with two vocational schools, high school and college has been waiting 17 years for work and where the National Service proposes to requalify himself into a much lower-class place. We can't let that happen. So, the National Service must, in co-operation with the ministry, serve as citizens and employ as many young people as possible, which will certainly give one significant and great opportunity for Serbia's future. Every new job is very important to us, investing in the staff and preventing young people and pouring out of our country abroad. Then we have amendments to the Law on the salaries of officials and tenants, in the units of local self-government. In this proposal before the annual changes, we also have a member of the 38th to reward officials and move deadlines for 2021, agency employment. Of course, a large number of people, especially with low professional equipment waiting at the level of local self-government, say, on this project employment or employment in occasional and business affairs, often these competitions are provided by the National Employment Service, but it is important that all workers in the Republic of Serbia, whether they are employed permanently or engaged in occasional and temporary jobs, have their own social security, which is very important when we talk about preventing black work, not only do workers at one point think they will have a higher income. There are various injuries in the course of work, given that these are mostly more difficult jobs, construction jobs and similar situations, and that this person does not have pension and disability insurance, treatment, cost compensation and everything he carries so that there is full support from JS and these facts that you have listed, as well as for the increase of wages in the public sector. We had a pay increase in the public sector from 7% to 12% last year. Dear Ministers here now we have a 15% salary increase, of course not all categories. It's an account based on, I say, and a degree of expertise, and a sector where it works, the biggest increase is given in health care, medical workers. So, nurses and doctors, which is also very important. We have an increase of 7/8% given to public services. Of course, this should also be controlled on a daily basis especially when it comes to public sector employment and local self-government units. Your Ministry, distinguished Minister Ruzic, has quite well introduced the control of the public administration and the overall reforms you have carried out in this domain, as well as the various trainings you are carrying out when it comes to public sector employees. All this is important because it will be more stimulating in the work. We need public sector employees, regardless of whether it's from the lowest level of employees, assistant workers, secretaries, we simply need that stimulant and salary increase to make a greater contribution and more impact. It will therefore have a greater impact both at the level of local self-government and at the level of the Republic. We also have an increase in salary when it comes to educators, social categories of residents, and then we have an increase in salaries when it comes to military faces. Also, the very important change this law makes is when it comes to military persons, that in the event of death, regardless of whether the flow of three years of life has passed with a married or out-of-marriage spouse, his family will be able to inherit or receive his pension. The question that is also very important when we talk about public sector wages – will this also lead to increases in private workers? Certainly, the private sector is very important and is being thrown at by a large accent. There is certainly a great accent to be thrown, because we have more than 600,000 employees in the public sector, but the various resources that this government has made possible and, let me say, to stimulate the opening of smaller and medium-sized private enterprises, thus allowing them to give them a boost in advance and to contribute to the opening of these new jobs in these companies. I believe that certainly this increase in the public sector will not have a negative impact on the private sector, so it can only affect the proper way to determine the procedure for imports and exports, which is very important. When we talk about the average wage in the public sector, in June this year was about 59,000. Generally, when we speak, it is a very important increase for us, but certainly that Serbia needs an even bigger increase, given the consumer basket, given the countries in the environment and the equating prices. So we must also work to keep paying and pensions constantly increasing so that the Republic of Serbia and its citizens are satisfied and satisfied, because the only material status we can fight against all other problems in this society and against the white plague and all because the only safe family and security in the financial sense can contribute to the creation of some other plans and family planning and progress and the future of the Republic of Serbia. From the above, we can talk a lot about this issue, but the facts say that the law is truly correct and sustainable and that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all 16 proposals, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65178	Thank you, colleague Vujic Obradovic. My colleague Radeta, I assume the basis of the replica again, because your colleague Vujic Obradovic mentioned you? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) Now I have one request for you. Please mention, my colleague Jovanovic, that I might now give him a basis for the replica, for the same reason I did not give him for a moment. If I gave it to you now, then I'd have double arches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65179	You know what, counterpart Milicevic, a replica is not supposed to mean just a fight between MPs or MPs and ministers. The replica should be a desirable way of communicating with the National Assembly at these sessions. That's why I was surprised why you didn't let your colleagues, Jovanovic, let us continue the debate on this law, the Agency's Employment Act, on some of the topics we've opened through these replicas. My colleague Vujic mentioned something here that is not exactly within these agenda points. But, yes, I said it was completely irrelevant how you made these groups, you could have done it anyway, because all the laws are about the Budget Law. She mentioned an increase in public service taxis. We Serbian radicals think that these fees should be abolished for a number of reasons. First, that the Public Service is not a public service at all, which the Public Service does not have a serious political show, which cannot represent all parliamentary political parties on the Public Service, because the news is particularly, with their comments, not the news they should be, what they should be on Jano's service, the cultural programme, etc. So you just don't need to get a single dollar through these fees, especially getting enough budget funding. Let the gentlemen work hard, so let them work on the system of these TVs that are privately owned, that make good money through various programs, ads, etc. One more sentence, when it comes to them. It is unacceptable to pass the law to raise their taxes, and those who-what programs they release instead of the National Assembly sessions, and I'm afraid they do so in agreement with you who are part of the government, which if so is really very, very bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65180	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Of course, the democratic debate and democratic discussion of the opinion are a reasoned debate desirable in the Assembly. You know that I personally cherish this democratic spirit of debate, but I understand that during a recent presentation in many of the issues you and your colleague Jovanovic agreed on. But here's a chance for my colleague Jovanovic to correct me. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65181	Thank you. I have to start from something very important because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hear, without seeing what the SRS and the SPS differ programically and conceptually, we as MPs are working on the same field towards the same goal, which is that we are passing laws that will, in practical terms, be of the greatest benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this direction and in this way I also accepted the discussion of the esteemed colleagues of Radete, along with a digression which implies only a different angle of observation of the employment agency's responsibilities compared to the employer, because the draft law stated the subsidiarity responsibility in Article 33. I took out a purely legal position from the point of view of my profession, which is that it would be a far more favourable solution, not to be "subsidarian", but to "solidar responsibility" and the employer and the Agency in order to simply identify the person to whom the claim, whether for compensation, would be to protect the rights. What was asked as a question, and citizens deserve an answer – what if the Employment Agency ceases to exist and employees are left without legal protection mechanisms when it comes to their working legal status, so I understood the question of the distinguished colleague Radete. Well, in order not to exceed the time, the answer would be the following – then it is my thesis, to define myself as an employee whether they will seek compensation from either the Agency or the employer founded, on the one hand. On the other hand, if the employer has done damage to the employee by his guilt, he is obliged to make up for it. If the job contract was fired, it was the employee's fault, then the employee was responsible for his working legal status which in some way endangered him or eliminated him. So this is already entering some kind of legal theory. I do not want to turn this assembly into such a kind of debate, but it is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to finally understand that this law, respected Minister Djordjevic, is a clear move forward towards equalising the rights of persons employed through the Agency in relation to those hired directly by the employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65182	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Fellow Vujić Obradović, do you want a replica? (Jelena Vujic Obradovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65183	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, just to explain, I was mentioned by my colleague from the SRS Versa Radete, of course not in a negative context. There's only one thing we won't agree on because my mention of her was in the name of the employment agency, and there's a discrepancy because a public service was mentioned. Of course it's a law from, let me say, a proper principled search, so since we haven't had enough time, I've united all 16 laws in this debate. Of course, when it comes to agencies, as lawyers and all the facts that we have stated, Radete and me as MPs are very complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65184	Thank you, colleague Vujic Obradovic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65185	First of all, based on this debate with my colleagues, and now I am speaking, first of all, to Minister Djordjevic. You weren't here, Minister. A colleague told us that you were officially absent and it doesn't matter at all. You're usually with the MPs and the National Assembly. This wasn't an observation, it was just an observation. When we asked what would happen to the employed employee, the agency took him there to someone that he worked, the agency stopped working, what would happen to that employee? It is not an answer to what counterpart Jovanovic just said, that he can choose subsidiaryly or in any way code. No, it's not an answer, because the agency doesn't. So he's left with nothing but an employer if there's any damage, but if there's no damage, here's what it does, what's his status? Who does he address for any solution to his problem? Who's breaking his contract? Who's extending his contract? The agency has stopped there, for the last five years, will not continue to renew the work. For the past three years, they no longer meet the conditions, so the ministry took away their work permit. So, where's that employee hanging out? What's going on with his working-law status? Then could the one he's working with keep him at work under the Labour Act, which would be wonderful, anyway, this agency doesn't serve anything? Or does that term expire with that employer on that contract for how long was he admitted, the contract expires, to whom he continues to address? There, that's a question the law doesn't have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65186	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister for labour, employment, martial arts and social affairs, Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65187	Dear MPs, I was officially absent, but I heard all the questions and I was there when you started the debate. Anyway, I was planning on taking this call, because certainly this law is what I think is very important. Now I want to go back first, even though I had my own, say, exposés about this law, but I want to tell you what our idea was. We all know that right now in our country, there's no such thing as an office when it comes to agencies. The agencies, you're right, there are today, but, as I said in my presentation, they're not defined, and there's no detail about how and how they should function. What are the facts today? Today we have agencies that do business and I have to say that in such circumstances when the labour inspection comes out, they, of course, operate in accordance with the law, and what do they lead to? They lead us to a large number of employees who have not just arranged their working legal status and they are just in that vacuum, where they don't even know what's going on with them and what are their rights and obligations. When they're sent to the agency and the agency sends them somewhere, they literally don't have any rights there. On the other hand, there are no restrictions. We today have some employers who are hiring, if I may figuratively say, up to 90% of them through agencies, and that these employees through these agencies literally have no rights in these companies and, of course, are subject to conditions, discrimination and everything else. Now, under these circumstances, we wanted to pass a law like this. We talked to the unions, too. We were ready for this law last year in December. We put him off for the first time on a union proposal, so we discussed him and somewhere in February of this year and we delayed him once more. So we've always wanted to figure out a way to get close in those attitudes. Of course, you always have two sides. One side is employers, the other side is, let's say, unions and workers and I have that third category, and these are the employers who do business today by wanting to stay this way, have 90% of them through agencies, that they can abuse them, etc. We tried to talk to both employers and unions and bring those attitudes closer. What are the conclusions of all this? We tried to get close to them and tell them what their possible objections or concerns about what would happen to this law. Our view is that this law will be the most in favour of workers and in favour of those employers who work in accordance with the law and who do not have the abuse of agency employment in this sense that they want a large number of them to employ and in some way condition them with it – if you are not obedient, unless you are organised in the union, unless you object, if you are not seeking greater rights, then you will remain in your workplace, we have already wanted to arrange it. Of course, my ministry colleagues were in a number of countries that had this system arranged and we looked to get out of each of these countries what was best. It was a different proposal. You know, it's been said that it's limited to 30%. The unions asked that it couldn't be unlimited at all, etc. We went on two different options. One option is that they can be 10% employed if they're only at the agency for a certain period of time. If they're at the agency indefinitely, so they already have a contract to work in the agency, then there could be more than 10%. What was it we wanted to accomplish? We just wanted to achieve that, first of all, the worker has this kind of security. On the other hand, this very responsibility exists partly on both sides. When it comes to profit, there is responsibility for each other, because they both earn and need that responsibility to share. When it comes to safety and health at work, first, the employer is obliged to provide workers and secondly to ensure that he has safe work. If he doesn't stick with it, I think it's logical that he's primarily in damages, and if he can't pay off, then that's what the agency does. Also, when we talked about trade unions, the unions wanted those in the agencies to be able to join unions with the employer and then we tried to get close to them what they were worried about. He's worried about workers and unions, and he's worried about what's happening today, and that's to be organised somewhere in some companies by trade unions that are on the side of the employer. What could we possibly bring? If such a thing were to happen, they would allow for the best intention of actually happening something right against the workers and against the unions so that the employer could receive for a short time from the employee's agency, to condition them just to the accession to his union that would be his and then to return them to the agency and thus get a union that would have one, two members. He'll get representative. In order not to do that, we've just been working and talking to the unions that this may be between two solutions one solution that's better for them. You said - what happens to the agency if she stops working? You know, the agency is a business entity that's like any other... The People's Messenger, the Witch of Radeta, throws it away. ) Yes, but he's employed by the agency indefinitely. What's going on with him? That's two cases, indefinite and certain. If it is for a certain time, it continues to work for a certain period of time with the employer as long as the employer needs it. If he was on indefinite time, the agency itself is a business entity like any other and it goes bankrupt. The bankruptcy can be charged with its rights, and there is also a Solidarity Fund from which it can be charged. So we looked, I believe, at all that we had as a doubt, we worked on this law for two years, to correct and to be, if I may say so, closer to the measure of the workers, if I may look at them, but certainly also to the extent of those employers who work in accordance with the law. Is it perfect? Probably not. Probably when it starts with its application, they'll be asking us to make any changes. But, as I say every time, we and our colleague Jovanovic said that we are all here for one goal, that we have a law that will measure our citizens, which will protect all their rights, which will provide the possibility of not working in some gray zone and provide some guaranteed possibility, guaranteed by them, guaranteeing that they are safe in their workplace. Our wish with this law is exactly the way it is. Surely, if there are any shortcomings, the first one I'm going to go out to say - well, we haven't seen it, we may have been wrong, but we haven't really seen it, let's make it right in two months and three months, just so we do, because we don't want to be vain and have some law and now we're saying we're the smartest in the world, but we want to have a law that lasts for 50 or 100 years and we're proud of it. I'm here to answer all your questions, and I believe there will be some more questions when it comes to this law. But, look, I want to assure you that the law was primarily done in order to create this particular vacuum that is currently in place, this abuse that is currently in place, it could be prevented and we don't have a future and not in any way create one situation where this kind of employment through the agency becomes a rule, not some exception. Having an agency is a very good thing for the state, because you can take just as many workers as you need, do your job, and not have that kind of constant cost and some worry about it, that you don't know what you're going to do with it, and on the other hand, give that employee the opportunity to have security, because you have jobs, let's just say, like a welder. Variators today or tollers, they're dealing with one employer today, but that employer, if he doesn't get the next job in our country, he's gone. What's he gonna do with it? This is how the agency's employed indefinitely, with the work of its future, a clear agency can hire him. Surely, in our infrastructure project in our country, they will continue to be citizens, they can secure their agency's continuity and profit for their agency, and on the other hand, provide for the opportunity for the agency's worker to be indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65188	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65189	We trust the ministers in your good cause, but trust us. It would be much better, above all, for workers, if you had nicely abolished some of these crazy agencies that now exist by local self-governments, which have no legal basis for their existence, but there they are. You didn't answer, you don't actually have an answer, there's no law, so you don't have an answer to the question essentially. What happens to employees when the agency stops working? You're talking about bankruptcy. The agency won't go bankrupt. The Agency shall be open for a period of five years. You get a license in five years and it's been five years and you just don't want a man to work anymore, to have that agency, to open a big store or not to do anything. So it's not about bankruptcy, it's about the expiry of the deadline. So, there isn't, the law doesn't have an answer to that question. One more thing, Minister. You say this is in the interest of employees. Everything you're saying can be done by the National Employment Service. There's no need for any agency to interfere. It will only create conditions for abuse and for taking money. The employers will take from the agency those employees who will be rented there, God save me, and regardless of their jobs, they will all work for a minimumer. Is it in accordance with the law? Yes, it is. Does the employer have to secure minimum earnings? He has to. Is he going to secure it? It will. And if that job is worth at least two minimum earnings, nobody cares. Just take it or leave it. The agency will tell him – here's the job, if you don't want to – thank you, goodbye. So all of this can be done by the National Employment Service, through all of those jobs that he usually gets money for, which organizes various courses, seminars, etc. This is another unnecessary agency that, believe me, no one will benefit. I'll see you in a few months when you ask for changes and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65190	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65191	You say - National Service. The National Service exists, and now there's an agency. But now those agencies, just if we left it like this and there wasn't this law, we'd let ourselves be able to have unlimited employment without any right. I'm telling you, the biggest fear, is what exists today. I'm not going to tell you in particular what profession, but I've had a conversation with employees working through the agency, and it's their concern about it, and they always have an objection to their rights being violated, that they're conditioned, etc. Through agencies, we clearly define and try to get into details how and how we can regulate their work and what are the rights and obligations. When you say "rerove the agency" and "what happens to them." Of course, there is a work inspectorate who does his job. It is by this law that this scale, when it comes to their work, will be raised to a higher level and I am deeply convinced that, just as you say, those who are now not working properly will lose such an opportunity to work and will not get a license for their work. When it comes to leaving, you say shutting down those agencies after five years, I certainly wouldn't want to go back into some past and think straight away about something bad happening. You yourself know that we no longer have to shut down companies, that we no longer have to fire workers, that today we live in such circumstances that we talk here that we lack workers and that our country lacks labour, that unemployment has fallen to 9.5%, that there will be even less unemployment in the safe perspective, that those interests that are missing will need safely in the future. It is just a guarantee that these workers will work through the agency, that they will have their jobs. But let's start from the fact that it's gonna happen to the agency that there's gonna be irresponsible owners. If they go bankrupt, surely these good workers will either be able to receive them permanently or to find their jobs at another agency, because they are good workers for whom they are always busy. So there's always work to be done for good workers. We don't want to go beyond the assumption of how it happened in 2000, when companies were reading, when it was bad privatisation, we don't have it today. When I spoke to the unions, I said you in unions must be aware that today there is a gold worker on the market and that a good worker should have. No good worker will be fired, no one, because everyone needs a good worker. There is no luxury of firing him because he will find it very difficult to find again in the labour market of a good worker. In such circumstances, I am deeply convinced that not only that the need for good workers but also the growth of their salaries will be conditioned by this, demand and retention of these very good workers. When you talk about the National Service, of course, there's always the possibility that they get a job through the National Service, but the guarantee of good performance for the employer taking part in the agency is exactly what that agency is, because here, as we talked about, that responsibility exists both on the agency and on the employer. This protects the worker himself on the one hand, but on the other hand we also provide to the employer who takes over the agency, that the agency is offering him the best workers for a greater profit and guarantees that these market workers are the best. He will look to collect at his agency the best workers if they are really good and missing on the market such as builders or such as welders or drivers. He's about to offer them indefinitely because he's going to want to leave them for himself because he'll always have a job on the market and that's what he'll make. That's the idea of this. Of course, there's always the National Employment Service, but as you know, it's not safe for them. There are small fees, very small rights, and again the uncertainty that they will return to the National Employment Service. What I left out a little before I said, and I know you said, believe me, labour inspection and how good it is, and how well it does its job. Not to read to you now, those since 2017, the number of controls they have increased by 20-30%. We no matter what they increase, we'll have over 90 grand this year. What is, let me say, positive and what gives us hope, gives us light at the end of the tunnel, is that we have from year to year fewer of those that we find working on black, less and less of those that are unregistered entities that work. We'll continue with that and here's another call, and every time I'm here, I say 0800-300-300-7 has two options. One option is option number one for all workers who can also report employers who know and can report those employers who are trafficking in the gray zone and who are working on black. If they log in and say their name and last name, the inspection is required to return their feedback. But I'm saying again, and if they apply, we can't tell who the source of our information is, but we're keeping to ourselves, and that's just the right to return the feedback. Option two is for pregnant women and maternity mothers, for all employers who violate the Law on Pregnants and Pregnants, can report to that option and certainly, the work inspection will take place as a priority. Last thing. On the Ministry site you have an up-to-date list, an up-to-date register and one of the entities and other entities that violate workers' rights. You can see for yourself how big that list is. Over 1,300 are these business entities in our country that have employed on black and you have exactly what basis, when it was inspection and what is the number of workers. There are no privileged ones, all found on that list. And the second register is those who violated the rights of maternity and pregnant women, I think there were 22 of them last Friday, exactly when, where, as much and what rights were violated. So, I call, because the only way, in addition to the violations and despite the labour inspection, is to somehow force people not to work against the law and not to violate the rights of workers, pregnant women and maternity women, and the possibility that the public is dealing with it and saying, "Here, the Ministry has announced, whoever is there, we can jointly condemn him and read him publicly." I don't think there's any worse punishment than that. He may pay some money, but once he comes out in the media, once he's on the Internet, he's mostly left mud on him because he once broke the law and took the right and the worker and scuttled the tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65192	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65193	It would be said from your debate, Minister Djordjevic, that the agency is guaranteed to be a waste of good staff. It's just not like that. Do you think the employer will trust the agency when the agency tells him, "Here I have a great welder?" No, but he will hire him for a certain time, if he works for the first time, he will do a traineeship, so the employer will decide whether he, such a worker, needs, with such not only formal qualifications, but with such skills, expertise, security at work, etc. It can also be done by the National Employment Service. It's not a guarantee agency, you believe, but on the contrary, the agency will be a place of abuse, I don't know how you don't understand what we want to tell you, a place of abuse, where people will be hired to work for minimum profit. They are being extended this employment for a certain time, at the agency for a certain time, with the employer for a certain time. Do you know what it means today in Serbia to work for a certain time, even with a good salary? This means, especially when younger people and not only younger people are concerned, that means that they can't get a credit card, that they can't get checks, that they can't get a loan, away from being solved for buying an apartment, they can't get a simple consumer loan. So, people who work for a certain time have been discriminated against, not just because there will be less pay over the agency, as it has been so far. You, Minister, should know that I remind you that if you don't know, agencies and, and half wild, there have been more than 10 years since 2007. What has been done and how have these people who are now coming, here I am ending up, really, these people who spent 10 years in these agencies, for a salary less than minimum wage, imagine how it will affect their pension, and the municipalities have transferred them to the agency at 50 years of age? They destroyed their lives for the rest of their lives, because they'll have abnormally small pensions based on their workings for more than 10 years for a salary less than minimum wage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65194	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65195	Well, didn't you find it suspicious when the yellow ones in 2007, when they allowed agencies to exist, didn't you find it suspicious that they didn't want to shape them and that they wanted to work them out in detail, so that they wouldn't or would not protect their rights, but that they allowed such agencies to exist that led to what I told you, that there was a fear of uncontrollable employment? Certainly, in order not to engage in a dispute, conversation, or exchange of views on what will be and whether the National Service or Agency is better, we do not force anyone. If you're right, they can still be in the National Service. We think it's better for them to use their knowledge to force the agency to give them indefinite time and to be in the agency indefinitely, and to have security, because neither at the National Service nor anywhere at any time PP jobs will have all that you've listed, nor credit capacity, nor the possibility of borrowing, nor any other privileges that they have, like those that are indefinitely. We only give the possibility that those who are in one vacuum today and work in those agencies, and they're good workers, they don't have the ability of the agency to hire them permanently, to have that opportunity right now. And, well, we leave it to them, so we'll see if you or I are right and who will listen more to you or me. So, we leave them for the right, go if you think it's better at the National Employment Service, wait for a job, we'll look to open new jobs and let you do it again, which doesn't stop you from competing there tomorrow when you open your job and get a job. And the second option for you is - go to the agency, force yourself to get some time and wait again for a better variant and a better job and certainly always the possibility to get a permanent job in another company.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65196	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65197	It's not like that, Minister, and it won't be like that. You won't understand anything. Why do we suspect abuses when it comes to this agency, like everyone else? It's okay what you say, and we've been reacting when the yellows formed not only this one, but all the other agencies, but we've submitted amendments to every member of the Agency Act. We said the agencies should be abolished, conscious of four, five agencies in Serbia. That's what you said in the campaign. That's what you said as part of the SRS, and then when you separated as advances you promised. And what happened to that? So don't ask us what we think about what they did to yellow. We think the same thing today and then. And you, then you think differently today. You kept doing what they did. What do we want to say about the agencies? You say - let the employee choose whether to go to the National Service or to the agency. He won't be able to choose, he'll have to go to the agency. Do you know why? Because it's going to work so that the person from the agency will come to the employer, that they transnge-frange agree, to see how good any of them will be, this way, how much money they'll make on these people, and then that employer won't look for workers at the National Employment Service, but he'll ask the agency and want to, they don't want to, people will have to apply to the agency. The agency will work for minimum earnings, no matter how high-quality, valuable, qualified, etc. That's the point. We're telling you. And we'll talk about it when you get here soon with changes and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65198	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65199	Just for a little while. And the agencies are there now, and it's just the idea to sort it out in some way, figure out that there aren't hundreds of them, that there aren't only those who receive them without any contract and then transfer them and then work there in some way on PP jobs, where their status is completely, simply, they don't have any future, they don't have any desire, they don't have the will to continue working there. There's always a fear on their side that he'll get fired. This is all you're saying, it's happening today. We have come to the idea that this is being worked out, that their number is being reduced, that there is a control of the licensing of those who get it, and on the other hand, what's most important, is to protect workers' rights, on the one hand, and to protect those employers who work in accordance with the law, who employ workers, and thus have unfair competition for those who work today, which is exactly what they do as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65200	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65201	Minister, I'm Serbian, you're Serbian, and we're talking in two different languages. So, Minister, we said this morning that agencies already exist. You nodded that they didn't exist, so then you got the information that they really existed. So there's been agencies for over 10 years. These agencies abuse these employees. People who work in these agencies work for much less profit without any rights, without being able to use their vacation, not even allowed to live, have no right to a warm meal, have no right to transport, etc. You're correcting some of this by law and we're telling you that these agencies should have been abolished and all of it returned to the National Service. That's the point. What do we need the agency and the one that's gonna be? We will not say what you are now predicting by this law – yes, it will be more orderly and it will be somewhat better than what was now. We didn't say that once differently during this debate, but we continue to argue – you don't need an agency, you don't need agencies, the agencies will make combinations with employers to the harm of employees. It's something you don't want to understand. There's no reason. You say you're protecting employers. How? Which is the problem for the employer to go to the National Service and say, "Give me a doctor, a baker, a welder, a professor." It's got all kinds. Don't worry, what you're saying is that unemployment is below 10%, unfortunately, there's all the professions in the National Service, and that's your special mathematics and methodology that's gotten to that percentage, but we're going to do it some other time. So, this agency, the agencies are absolutely unnecessary, this job should be done by the National Employment Service and the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65202	The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65203	Now we have two variants. Let's say we don't have this law and you want to keep doing it like we've done before. Given what's going on today, let's be, let me say, formal in my presentation, I think we'd still be in favour of passing this law and I think this is one, as Mr. Jovanovic said, and a qualitative and quantitative step forward. What would happen if, you say, the National Service remained? Our agencies exist today and let's ignore them. What would happen? We're talking about missing occupations, and it's mostly those jobs that are needed today when you get a tender. Let's say you have a road construction company and you need to find roadways, construction workers that aren't on the National Service, but come on, let's go hypothetically again, that there are, and you take them to the National Service and they're really good workers, you finish that job, you do three months of asphalting some time and you get it and you finish it. You've got to get them back to the National Service, because you don't have any more work for them right now. You compete in the next tender, you get it in three months, you report to the National Service, and now these good workers are gone, because someone else took them, and you don't have them in fact, and you had a secure job. That's exactly the idea of this, and it's to give these workers the opportunity, because they're mostly crying out for their work, because they're, I can't say, seasonal, but ad hoc are wanted, and yet they need jobs all the time, that they have some kind of security, because they're not convicted because they're looking for ad hoc and there's no job for them in one employer all the time, and there are different people who have to be condemned for not having any indefinite time. Those workers, just like that, will get to the agency for an indefinite contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65204	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65205	Minister Djordjevic, at 11 o'clock and 22 minutes, I first said there were agencies, and you said they didn't exist, and I said that the agencies should shut you down. Now you ask: What would we do if there was no law? We would have abolished those crazy agencies that became slave owners. That's what we're talking about, and there's nothing better going to be with these things that you do this way. Thank you, Minister, for explaining how you got below 10% of your employment, among other things. You've explained nicely that people from the National Service are going to the agencies and they're not working there, they're just being reported to the agency, and you're treating the unemployed only those who are the National Service. This is the ultimate goal, in the future, of reducing that percentage, and in reality that the number of employees does not decrease. Well, that's quite a story you've explained to us. Here's an answer to the question, you say, what would we do if there wasn't this law with existing agencies? Is it possible that you, as a resolute minister, that the government, as a serious apparatus, cannot solve the problem of those agencies that you say were introduced by the yellow... Yes, they were introduced by the yellow and there was a bad solution, and then and now. Is it possible that you can't stop it, stop it and say it's semi-legal business, exploit people, you don't give people basic labour rights, basic human rights, let's, let's disband, all the people that are registered to the agencies, let's go to the National Service? Now, if you'll excuse me for being your two-digit unemployment again, it's a real state of mind. That's the problem. It's a real situation, and what you represent is so little makeup and good for a pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65206	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65207	First, according to the current laws, now that the area is arranged, they work in accordance with the law and you can't do that. Working in accordance with the law, we cannot deal with it and lead to the right of workers and the creation of unfair competition now by a legal solution... What we're proposing today is how we can shape them, how we can form them, and how we can get to that number of agencies that can really work on the market and that can work for the benefit of all those who want to work through agencies. The workers who are now working on pp jobs through the agencies, so they'll still work tomorrow when they're... If there were no such agencies, it's their status as if there were agencies, right now, what's the situation. It's not true that the number of unemployed is being fixed. Their number, with or without them, is exactly the same. If there are and if they're working on pp jobs, you're reducing unemployment. The moment they stop, they become unemployed. Such an explanation, as you said, simply does not exist. Second of all, I didn't say there was no agency at all. I was nodding my head because I didn't agree with the explanation you gave at 11:00 and 22 minutes, but I didn't say they didn't exist, but I just wanted to get to the point and tell you what I was about to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65208	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65209	Just one question -- where in this bill, Minister, does it say, first of all, what I've already asked about these people, the workers, the employees that the agency is sending somewhere when the agency stops working because it's been five years? You say – you work on that no one stops working, that companies develop, etc., but a man will want to do something else, he will no longer run that agency. We're not saying he's going to lose his job, I don't even know what. Where does it say what happens to employees like that? Where does it say what happens to these agencies that have exploited employees so far? Where does it say what's going to happen to those agencies? Do you stop them, God forbid, somewhere in this law? You're not. Do they exist in the Labour Act? They don't exist. Are they real? There are. How are you gonna end them? You won't. Because you haven't even been since 2007. You've had as much chance as you want. The only thing about this is that you were set up by the yellows, and that you continued not only that, but like a lot of things you continued according to that policy and they then said that it was something good on the European path, etc. And then imagine you're the municipality forming an agency and the municipalities of all the employees who want to put away, because when power changes, then other political parties come, etc. All those who don't respond to political accommodations in the agency, and work in the same office at the same job and the one that works in the municipality receives, say, 40,000 dinars of salary, and the one that works in the agency receives 30,000 salaries, and the one that's in the municipality has... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... much greater rights, the one that's in the agency is covered in ears and can't move at work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65210	The word has a minister, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65211	The answer to your question is Article 7 views, I think, 4 and 5, when the agency can stop and how their license applies. What you're saying, we're about to do right now with this new licensing, that, as you have this fear, that we reduce their numbers and that only those who operate in accordance with the law and all of these fears that you have, they want to work by the rules for them will be licensed and theirs will be limited. It is said here that if the Agency ceases to make contracts concluded before the withdrawal of that permit or termination of work, the Agency shall remain in force until the expiry of the period of entry and for the longest two months from the date of withdrawal of the licence, but under all other rights, workers shall draw their rights as well as when a company disappears. So, since the agency is operating as a company in the APR, its disappearance from the market is meant the same as any other company. The workers will draw the same rights as if they were employed in a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65212	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65213	This proposal is also a member of the 6th Minister, and Article 6 says – a permit is issued for a period of five years. When the licence expires for five years, only if the application is submitted and the administrative fee is paid and the conditions that became available five years ago are checked once again when the agency is opened. The Agency's work shall not be extended on official duty. Why didn't you say that the agency was opening indefinitely, with the possibility that at some point it could stop working when the conditions were laid down by law? What you're saying in advance is that it's formed within five years. There's no guarantee they'll keep working. I'm telling you he doesn't want a man. He was doing great, he was doing great, he wasn't going to do it anymore. Now he wants to be some other kind of employer, that he takes from some other agency employee. Minister, if these agencies and this one of yours and these previous ones remain in force, if they are in line with the Labour Relations Act and if they are not at the expense of employees, then why, because of them, you bring this, why do you so. Foreign investors, I say. Because they are no investors but the plants that work here because the state of Serbia pays them a certain amount in thousands of euros per job, all mass taking people through agencies to work with them? What? Because the guy at the agency is gonna tell him – is this great for you? No, brother, it's because he's cheaper, because it's a way, another way to exploit the cheaply paid workforce in Serbia anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65214	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65215	Let me tell you, you have a chance, you are now talking about what will happen if the license expires after five years. And that it's been given indefinitely, and you're talking about that particular subject, the one that's been abused and stopped, who has abused the workers, the employer she's given and disappeared, she will disappear with both that license and without it. The license gives us the opportunity to ask if she works in accordance with the law and force all those who want to work right now. Article 8. talks about when and how a license can be withdrawn and what it means when we take a license – why we take it, and it is unpaid earnings etc. There are masses of these things, and here when you talk about those who work with investors who only hire through the agency – this is exactly what will solve their problem. Today, if he hires them and if you're right and hires them 90 or 100% through the agency that registered them alone, there's no contract with them, there's no contract with them, they're allowed here, they're working for a certain time, they don't have any rights. Right? What happens now? Now we're going to force them to only be 10%. The rest of them either have to accept it or that agency gives them not indefinite time. We've just increased their rights, we're about to allow them to take loans, all of what you said they lacked with this law. How much of a concern and how right we are is the fact that they appear and want this law not to be passed by those where we know or assume that they are working in this way, precisely those who employ 90 or 100% of those who work only through the agency, where workers are between two subjects, and they have no rights. Since they're rebelling, I believe this is the best proof that we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65216	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65217	Minister, I want to be Minister of Labour right after you, and that is why I want you to, as you run a campaign pre-election from there, I do it from here, draw attention that we are fighting for a worker, for a man, of course, we have nothing against employers, but I cannot exploit employers in any way to exploit workers in Serbia. It happens, you liked it, you didn't like it. That's a fact, Minister. When we talk about the question you don't have an answer to – what after five years if the agencies don't continue? We can't get anyone to keep working after five years. Our question is: What is the solution? It doesn't exist here. He's got five attitudes. Why is there no sixth position - if the agency does not continue to work, employees will be registered to the National Employment Service under the same conditions they have at the agency. God forbid, where are you going at the National Employment Service to show you a real number of unemployed?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65218	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65219	First, let me tell you - when he has a license or has no license, no one guarantees that he will work for those five years. She can be abolished after two years and two years to abuse it. You say, under the same conditions. This creates the possibility of only holes in the law where you can fictitiously create an agency, raise wages, disappear, and then it returns under the same conditions to work at the National Employment Service, that is, to be in the National Service. That's how we open Pandora's box of things that can only be abused by this law. When you said that, I only like one part. We fight for all workers, we fight for all employers who work in accordance with the law and we are brutal towards those and we want to be brutal towards those who break the law. That's our mantra and that's what we're trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65220	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65221	I trust you all, Ministers, except one, to fight crime, I don't believe you because none of those you speak of have been arrested yet, nor have they been tried, which you mentioned here today and who have also abused these agencies and where is Dinkic, where is Labus, where is Gilas, where is Djelic, Vlahović? They're all still going there, walking around Kopalnik, giving lectures to government members, the Prime Minister and the president of the state. They are now some respected economists. Minister, when you clear up with them, not by crucifying them on a cross for no reason, but by letting the departments deal with all the crime, not by slowly going towards getting their crimes out of date, because very soon one of these criminal acts of these people will become obsolete and no one can tell them that they're criminals, and you're deliberately letting time pass, that their crimes become obsolete and ate the cat. What about criminal privatisations? What about the banks? What about the state-run shut-down banks? What happened to the hundreds of thousands of people who lost their jobs in these criminal privatisations? What about abuses, corruption of all possible species? You're packing it up nicely. You're putting it under the carpet. One day Zag will get out of the den, I don't even know her last name, Zagorka Dolovac, then the public will be surprised here we have the state's attorney's office to inform the public – excuse me, don't call anyone else a thief, there's an obsolescence. Well, that's why you're keeping her safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65222	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65223	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Since we forgot what's on the agenda, I'll remind you a little bit. First of all, to say that the amendments to the law are responsible, and the proposal for a law on agency employment is good and good. Apropo of what was said to be bad both and that they should definitely have been erased. When I say that they are responsible, I will remind you, given that we have forgotten, it is a bill on amendments to the Law on pay of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government; a bill amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System; a bill amending the Law on Employees' Salaries, AP bodies, local self-government units and a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees. For all four amendments to the law, it is common to postpone the date of application. Reasons. Well, the reasons are next. First of all, because of the need to carry out further analysis of the new pay system to address all the problems, the challenges that can be identified, and to leave an appropriate period of time for adapting both employers and employees. The second reason for access to amendments to the law in this way is to carry out a qualitative assessment and a quality fiscal consequence of the new way of calculating the salaries of all public sector employees and to make a comprehensive analysis in order to avoid the breach of the task, i.e. targeted participation in the general government's GDP profit level, i.e. it does not rise uncontrollably and thus disrupts the financial balance. Finally, considering the complexity of the process of introducing and implementing the law, the diversity of professions, the public sector calling, a large number of significant commitments for founders and employers when planning the basics of wages, and making sure that it does not break, I will repeat, the financial sustainability of the budget, should be left with a reasonable period of time until the application of this law, in order to avoid any negative consequences, both on the budget and on the employees, because the hand is a matter that weighs on all of us and affects our lives, and this is a question of pay for employees. That it is a good proposal, it also speaks for the 2020 budget, and especially that part about the increase, we have already done this with a budget rebalance for 2019, an increase in the public sector's profit share. In this way we have made some balance and we have made one good basis so that we can do as much as possible, whether it will be right, but in any case properly and balancedly, that the foundations in all segments of the public sector and public services are right. In order for reforms to succeed and give their full effect, it was proposed on January 1st 2021 as the date of application. In any case, it will be so, because everything that this government has promised before it and every year since 2012 has fulfilled its goal and this goal will be fulfilled. I think it's quite right and that the ministry is doing the right thing and that somewhere in early 2021 we're going to talk about both paid classes and everything that's coming from this. The second draft law is the proposal for a law on agency employment. We heard a lot in today's debate. Here's me. I've got associates who are agency employees, in the service I work in. So far, it has depended on the employer of their work assignments and their work and their relationship with them. In principle, they had no working hours, no vacations, no pay. Unlike those, all those who worked where I work, had the right to a day off for religious glory, had the right to all that he had and a regular employee in society. It is precisely the purpose of this bill of law for everyone to be even and that is why I am surprised by all these stories that have been so far. Exactly, since 2007, there has been this way of employment, it has not been arranged properly, this is the right way to make sure that every employee of any agency employee in society, in private, in the public sector, is treated the same, that has the same rights and obligations. This area has so far not been any regulation that regulates the issue of labour and labour relations, has been regulated, and this is exactly the main motive to approach the adoption of the bill, because although the labour laws did not recognise this issue, as I said, there have been many employees in this way. The labour law recognized only the contractual relationship between the employee and the employer, and the work of the employee through the temporary employment agency was not arranged. This has raised a number of questions about the rights and obligations of persons who, through the agency, are assigned to temporary work by the employer, begin with differences in the height of the employee’s salary through the agency and the employer’s employment for the same work i.e. The same job, the right to vacation, what I mentioned earlier, the absence of work, working hours and everything else about working relationships. This bill shall ensure maximum protection of agency employees and shall equalise in all rights and obligations with other employees of the same employer. Also, this proposal for a law draws closer to it. defines the agency for temporary employment, which has not been the case so far, necessary working conditions, as well as mutual relations between the agency, the employee and the employer, the user. We talked about it a lot today in the same language, but we didn't seem to understand each other. Another important reason was to bring our labour legislation into line with the international standards of the International Labour Organisation and the EU. A lot of people will say we don't need that. You should. It should be recalled that in 2013, in the National Assembly, we adopted the Law on Confirmation of the International Labour Organisation Convention, number 181 on private employment agencies, and we are talking about them today. The bill is closer to defining the conditions for the Agency's work, which gets a work permit from the Ministry of Labour, as well as who can't set up the Agency and we've talked about it a lot, the law defines a three-year period as a time period in which the agency in which the permit was withdrawn cannot carry out the same work, because it probably committed some kind of a violation. The ministry is overseeing the process of meeting the working conditions and opening the agency, which has not been the case so far, as well as the issue, extension, confiscation and termination of the importance of the permit. Permissions shall be issued for a period of five years and may be extended if you meet all the conditions set. The draft law regulates the establishment of a working relationship between the agency and the employed person, the elements of the labour contract, the contract on the remuneration of the employee between the agency and the employer, the user. The bill also defines cases where there is a ban and restrictions on agency employment. In talks with trade unions aimed at encouraging the direct employment of workers by the employers of the users, it is limited the remuneration of employees through the agency to 10% of the total number of direct employees. The minister has spoken much more about this in his previous presentation. The bill also defines any cases that may arise during the engagement of an agency employee, such as protection at work, permanent concession, banning the establishment of the employment relationship of the agency employee and employer, the user, after the expiry of the time he is entitled to. Just what I said was the subject and the last two hours and all that defines this law. This law will bring order to all the objections my colleagues had in today's presentation. I will refer only to three other members, Article 2, Articles 10 and 12, as regards employment in the country and abroad. I think they're both proper and good members. Articles 10 and 12 speak exactly what happens when it happens. Whether we will sometimes be EU members or not, but we are preparing to be ready at that time and to respect everything that is up to the Serbian state. Since I'm in a hurry to the Finance Committee, I'll leave some time as authorized, for later. In voting day, the SNS will support all legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65224	Thank you. I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Agency Act can be interpreted twice. If the conditions for the agencies to be employed indefinitely, rather than at a certain point, it would have its post. But if there is a chance that they can hire workers for a certain time, then it's a competition for youth and student cooperatives and will practically get into a chain wheel that will be very difficult to get out of. If these agencies are allowed to hire workers and for a certain period of time, they will be discriminated against by workers working for a certain period of time through the National Company Employment Service, because they are in companies, they will practically have at least for the directorial costs of those agencies, greater income than they have through agencies. Finally, the question remains who founded those agencies? We can look at today in practice at the basis of representatives from foreign companies to another way to catch some of the profits on this market even though they are registered as practically our agencies, because that is how the law foresees and does not make a difference unlike other countries. I'm not sure that's how the employment agencies work in other countries. But I would take advantage, since I have no opportunity to ask questions, to look at the debate that exists on electoral conditions and which is being conducted between the representatives of the position and the opposition under the patronage of the EU's representatives. Both do not care about one significant electoral group, i.e. participants in the elections that are quite discriminated against for objective reasons, because they do not have the opportunity to vote, i.e. very difficult for them to access foreign voting positions. So it's about our citizens who are in diaspora, above all in large countries, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, the Russian Federation and China, but also in other countries where the number of our citizens is extremely large, and therefore, in one or two polling stations, it's very difficult for them to exercise their right, but also their obligation. Finally, I haven't heard, and that's why I think it's necessary to allow an electronic vote, at least for our citizens working in the diaspora. Also, I have not heard that any of the representatives of the position or opposition advocated other approaches in the electoral legislation, which is that the electoral right is also an obligation, and that the conditions and obligations to go to elections, because then we would have a completely different situation, since most of the citizens of Serbia, who have the right to vote, are practically abstinent from going to the elections. If obligations were prescribed, as is the case in some other countries, then perhaps the election situation would be quite different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65226	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65227	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, on public sector wages, public agencies, I hope for more recent reforms and paying classes. For me, dear colleagues, it is not acceptable for us to choose or place persons for various agencies, regulatory bodies, public sector functions that have four, five times the salary of those who place them. So, several times they have higher incomes, which does not mean that I advocate that we have received four or five times as much, but that it is harmonised and that those we choose cannot have more salaries than the President of the Republic, than the MP, from the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we happen to have an official, even the vice-presidents of these regulatory and regulatory bodies, having deputies, assistants, employees having several times more salaries than the MPs who choose and place those persons. These agencies have special rights and the number of employees by those agencies. If the Committee of Mr. Martinovic refuses to hire some new people by accident, in that case, there are noises and shit. I am not sure that employees of these agencies have been used in full-time work and many of them have various privileges, and always the cry rises to MPs or ministers. That's why I hope that soon there will be a reform of those paying classes or that it will be harmonised. As far as this task force is concerned. Just to say that I believe, I firmly believe, that part of the labour force and the masters who went to Western Europe that one day they would return to Serbia, and that it wasn't the only reason the lack of a master, that they went out, but that it wasn't during the yellow roaches, there was no dual education, and that the increased employment of more than 300 thousand people in Serbia, that this is the reason the labour shortage, which will again lead, in my opinion, to an increase in wages and that employers will pay that work more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65228	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65229	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, in a package of laws in this joint search, there are amendments to several laws that regulate labour status and salaries of public sector employees. The changes relate to moving deadlines to start applying a new way of calculating wages. We have before us amendments to the roof law, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which shifts the deadline for the application of the law and for the harmonisation of the specific laws to 2021. Then, the deadlines are also changed in the special laws of 2021 to establish the basis for the application of the law in 2022 and, under one, in the Law on salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces or units of local self-government. Under two, in the Law on the Payments of Officials and Peasants in Authorities of Autonomous Provinces or units of Local Self-Government. Under three, in the Public Service Payments Act. Namely, what's this about? The aim of the adoption of this package of laws in the past three years from 2016 to 2018 was to introduce payment classes and develop evaluation and promotion models for employees in different parts of the public sector. During the adoption of these laws, which was then explained by Minister Ruzic, we found that salaries in the public sector are part of the reform and modernisation of the public administration that should contribute to further professionalisation and more efficient work of the administration, which, under the law, is a public service to all citizens in the exercise of their rights and regulation of their legal obligations to public authorities. The second segment of the modernisation of public administration, which I would particularly like to point out, is the modernisation of public administration by introducing an electronic administration and connecting electronic databases, so that citizens are able to get all their obligations and rights to public authorities on a single counter, as Minister Ruzi, who led the resolution, said in one administrative position. The project is already being successfully implemented in a number of municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that the reform of the wage system is a necessary process, because you are already fairly calculating salaries should enable efficient and professional administration, it is necessary to motivate already employed professional staff in this sector to remain in operation, but also to motivate young people to be employed in the state administration and public services, because the only professional, dedicated and efficient public administration can be one of the rule of law guarantors in one sensitive segment, which is the exercise of citizens' rights in front of public authorities. We know, namely, that public administration, as we say most often, the state administration, is an important link in the implementation and application of the law, and citizens are always sensitive because until recently they met that wing – you lack one piece of paper, and they collected the necessary documents from the counter to the counter. In this respect, strategic definitions are both these and previous governments and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in whose jurisdiction these issues are, in order to allow for a fair model of wages. Thus, the adoption of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System in 2016 established the obligation to apply a new model of salary accounting, at different levels and different sectors of public administration and public service, by the fact that the deadlines for the application of these individual laws were moved because of the need to make a precise impact analysis for each job and the professional provision of employees, in order to introduce, on the one hand, a fairer way of assessing the labour performance and remuneration, and on the other hand, to conduct a very precise budget for public sector wages and an analysis of their impact on the overall budget of the state, as well as the participation of these salaries in the total gross national product. First of all, I mean parts of the public sector that employ a large number of people, such as education, health care, the judiciary and other segments, where it's not easy to come up with a good model of salary accounting. The projected model comes from the fact that basic principles of work are uniformly regulated, to enable the remuneration of employees in line with achievements. At the same time, legal solutions are in line with standards adopted and comparable to official law, i.e. with standards developed by European countries, which have efficient and economically functional administrations. These principles are incorporated into these laws. But this period of preparation of precise criteria for certain parts of the public sector obviously requires much more time precisely for the reasons I have stated, which is the justice of the system from one, and the overall impact of the public administration's salary on the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you that a few months ago we passed a law that allows for an increase in wages in the public sector from 8% to 15%, which is budgetaryly sustainable, because Serbia's economy is seeing a progressive trend, and thus the growth of gross national income. Salaries have been increased and this is one of the incentive measures for the preservation of professional and professional capacities and conditions of an efficient public administration. The fact is that relatively low wages in public administration are not a motive for work. It is also intended to pass specific laws on labour status and salaries in public services in public agencies and other bodies and organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local self-government. All of this is not a simple process involving several hundred thousand employees. I think it is better to extend the deadlines for the application of these laws than to make mistakes, and to say so, to make a mistake about certain parts of the public sector, i.e. employees in certain parts of the public sector, which could also have negative consequences for the overall relationship in society. Let us not forget about the public sector are teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, judges, police officers, professional military officials, civil servants, tenants, local self-government employees, public agencies and many others. It should be as righteous as possible in determining the amount of their income. It is not easy to determine the salary of a teacher or teacher, a teacher whose working hours are not only measured for hours at work, but also by the fact that they care, train and educate our children. We Socialists are programmed to care for the social and economic status of employees, so we support any solution that improves their position. For these reasons, we also support the extension of the deadlines for the application of these laws, because we know that this is not a simple process, because it is several hundred thousand employees. That is why we believe that it is better to extend the deadlines for the application of these laws than to make mistakes, and to say so, to wrong employees in certain parts of the public sector, which could also have negative consequences for overall social relations. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65230	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65231	Thank you. Respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will also support these bill proposals, as we believe that the introduction of order of systems that have been in an extremely chaotic state over the last decades is necessary, especially in sensitive things such as public sector wages and all other types of employment within state institutions, province institutions or local self-government institutions. It is particularly important for us to start taking care of employees here, about their status for reasons that in those places that are not the central part of the state, there is a much clearer difference in the status of those who are employed in the public sector and those who are not employed in the public sector. In these environments, employment in one of the public sectors is considered a secure business, everything else is due to this very chaos and heritage of the destructive or destructive regime of the 1990s, and the further ones that have destroyed the economy, destroyed the economic operators, led to people simply being insecure in any other type of employment, and therefore this further strengthening of their status is one of the good signals that order will be introduced into economic activity and that, we believe, they will have a stronger echo in that decision whether to stay or leave the country. Not only do those who do not have a job go away but they also go away with families and those who have jobs, as well as public institutions, institutions of the Republic State, the local system, very unhappy with all this mess. That's why the introduction of this order promotes that hope. I'm really saying this and I often mention it for reasons why if you look at these cities that are outside the central parts of the country, so just look at the panorama of the cities, you'll see how bright it is, the apartments, the houses, the shut down, how many families have left and how many are already being prepared. Or look at the bus stops on the weekends, you'll see that mostly young, capable people go away, people with families. Therefore, any effort to introduce order and to speed up the status of workers of any kind or status is for any praise and support. As is the case for support, too, this draft law on employment agencies, because it will also introduce order, because very often those who are engaged in temporary and occasional jobs are abused or used, especially by local administrations and self-government for powers in these administrations and self-government, for different types of services, through blackmail, by this engagement which is very often limited, and above all I mean political blackmail and blackmail when elections come, or election process. So we believe that by professionalizing this kind of thing, and in some ways, it will prevent people who really want to feed themselves and their families with their work, earn and receive the paid pay, preserve dignity and ensure that they simply feed themselves and their families and do not feel that they owe anyone anything because of what they have earned as their right, one of the basic human rights, the right to work and the right to earn money. Now, the situation is that, although people are good workers, they must again thank the one who has a situation in some position for years and has received it in the workplace, but because of these unresolved things, when it comes to legal regulations, has misused that position to somehow blackmail them and in some way honor them for what is their right. We see this as a way to prevent such a thing from being abused and that honor, the dignity of workers, of men, is on a higher level, because it's something that has no price and something that is the basic value of human culture and civilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65232	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work further. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65234	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, the respected Minister Ruzic, will, within a few minutes, refer to these four laws concerning public sector wages and, of course, public agencies and other organisations, to amend and supplement the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the authorities of the AP and local self-government, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Service Employees. The proposed amendments and additions concern deadlines starting with the application of system and specific wage laws in the entire public sector. When we talk about the public sector, it should be borne in mind that the public sector covers almost 400,000 employees. When saying this figure, it seems great, but it is therefore important to point out that this figure includes employees, first of all, in health care, in education, in justice, then officials in the public security sector, in the Ministry of Defence, then officials in the security system, in public agencies, and these are the most numerous sectors that employ the largest number of our citizens and citizens. The reform also applies to employees of state authorities, various institutions, public agencies and local self-government units. Given that all of this is done together by a state apparatus, it is clear that an extensive analysis is needed, both in every sector, in ways of organising them, financing and labour costs, then working conditions and risks that employees are exposed to in order to make one meaningful and budgetary sustainable transition to a new system that we want to establish in all parts of the public sector. People working in the public sector see this issue more clearly, as the system inside can also recognise the importance of the reform process, contribute to the preparation of the new system and the same system, or the public sector should be and ready to implement what the newspapers are. We understand the reasons for delaying the application of the basics because it is important, and that is exactly what I said, that the system itself will be fairer in order for the public sector to be satisfied and prepared. I'd like to draw attention, Minister Ruzic, to public agencies that are otherwise polluted years ago and in terms of the amount of their incomes, but also what they're actually doing. Taking into account the competences, the nature of the business and the narrow professional training, the persons, or officials working in public agencies, their status should be determined on the basis of the specificity of the work they perform, and the conditions necessary to fulfil in addition to qualifications, possession of certain licences and any other conditions. I believe that these public agencies also have a state-of-the-art, which is where the state must cultivate and provide conditions that will not drive it to the private sector. Here I am talking not only about highly educated professional staff, but also qualified workers who are extremely wanted and paid on the market. Of course, this does not apply to public officials and appointed and appointed persons, so I'm not talking about directors or deputy directors of these public agencies, but to those people who carry an outstandingly responsible job and do very delicate things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65235	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65236	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, I would at first commend a set of laws that are on the agenda today, but I would particularly refer to the Agency Employment Act. We have heard many praises today, but also criticisms of the Agency's Employment Act, but what is very important is that this law regulates the field of work and working relationships that have so far not been governed by any other law and which seems very important to me, it is commended by all those present in this room and participants in this debate both from the position and from the opposition. In my current, not so little political internship, I had the opportunity to accept a large number of citizens talking, trying to help them solve their problems. The most numerous problems were employment problems, and a large number of these problems were directly related to work on temporary and occasional jobs. In the past, temporary and occasional jobs were almost without any rights, very often less paid than employees in a permanent working relationship on the same job and had almost none other than a cash compensation which, I say, was always less than what other employees received, no other labour rights. This law also provides for paid sick leave and paid vacations, paid travel expenses and other labour rights, which seems to me to be the key to improving this law. Dear gentlemen, what I must also point out today is that no one has prevented any previous authorities from passing a law that would regulate this area. No one, respected citizens, prevented Gilas or Jeremic from thinking about the unemployed today or at times or the temporary employees. They were, however, busy with various machinations and their own wealth, as they were to be accompanied by such rapid growth at once in the traffic of their private businesses of as many as 619 mills, as it recorded Gilas's company, all on the burden of citizens and citizens of Serbia. Gentlemen, it is neither Gilas nor Jeremic at that time interested in what employment would be, nor the unemployment rate that reached over 25% in 2012. It is fortunate that the citizens of Serbia have also recognised all the happiness of the Serbian citizens that the SNS, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is now changing and repairing the situation in Serbia. Unlike then 25% unemployment, today it is reduced to an historic 9.5%. Today, we are no longer just talking about reducing unemployment, but also about improving working conditions, because this Agency Employment Act is exactly what it does. Thanks to the government of the Republic, together with President Aleksandar Vukic and the fact that over 200 factory plants have been opened in the past five, six years, we can talk today about a better life for Serbian citizens. Neither Djilas nor Jeremic nor the company are considering employment nor job creation. They're just thinking that they're gonna come up with a new lie and they're gonna hit Alexander Vukic as hard as they can to destroy him, drawing a target on his forehead almost every day. The answer to all these are highways that we drive through beautiful Serbia today, which was opened by Aleksandar Vukic. The answer is hundreds of thousands of new jobs opened by the SNS headed by Aleksandra Vukic. The answer to that is the historic unemployment rate of 9.5%. The answer to their lies and targets is a better life for Serbian citizens. As much as the Alliance for Serbia, Đilas, Jeremic, Aleksic, Bosko Obradovic lied, stole and were loud about it, the SNS, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, will oppose this diligence, work, pawning, building Serbia, and I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will recognise it. Today's laws are mechanisms for this better life for Serbian citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all the laws proposed today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65237	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65238	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, today the Assembly is discussing a set of laws relating to the public sector pay system. There are amendments and amendments to the four laws which move the deadline, above all, to align the specific laws with the roof law in this area and to the part relating to the application of the pay base, as it is now applied to civil servants and deputies, which is the introduction of payment classes and a new way of rewarding employees according to the effect. We have before us the laws on amendments and additions to the laws on public sector pay systems, public service employees' salaries in the bodies of an autonomous province or local self-government and agencies whose founder is the Republic, autonomous province or units of local self-government. I will take this opportunity to focus first and foremost on the role of the state administration to preserve the rule of law. Many would say that our administration is not professional enough, that it is not effective and that may have been to one extent the case. However, I find that the picture has changed over the last years of public administration reform and bringing it into line with the needs of citizens, but also with the standards of good administration in developed countries has given its positive effect. The public administration, however not important to anyone, is one of the pillars of the rule of law, because administration is exactly the force implementing the regulations and before which citizens exercise their rights. So, if the administration isn't good, then even citizens as taxpayers won't be satisfied, because in exercising their rights they almost had to wait in front of a number of counters, to pay quite the amount of money to get the documents they asked for. Fortunately, this is a situation that has changed dramatically. I will commend the reform process launched three years ago by the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government that is modernising, educating and preparing for a new approach towards the obligations the state has towards citizens. Citizens become, first of all, subjects, not just numbers in front of counters. This allows the system of eGovernment, which we adopted in 2018. This speeds up every administrative procedure, a legal basis has been created for uniting all electronic databases on citizens. So that bodies under official duty can obtain the documents necessary for the exercise of the right of citizens. A special importance, I would point out, has a project of local self-government that the ministry financially supports, which makes local administrations more efficient. I have seen that for this purpose, the funds in the budget, which we have adopted these days, are increased, so it should not be forgotten that for every serious rule of law, it is very important that the public administration is, because, above all, the public's attitude towards the state is formed through the efficiency of the public administration. State and administration are identified, which is not rare, because the first meeting of citizens with the state is right on counters in local self-governments, i.e. municipalities, tax administration, home of health, social services, etc. These laws just don't cover administration in the narrow sense of that word. This law covers sectors which, because of the nature of their services they provide, are large and employ a large number of persons. I would like to highlight the education and health sector, which, we will agree, are two important pillars of the progress of every society. I believe that the health and education of the nation for the state has no alternative. In this regard, it is very important to look at all the elements of specificity, all similarities, but also the differences in these segments, so that the application of the new model of salary accounting will ensure that the greater fairness is ensured, and therefore the employees make it more satisfactory, because the state values their work in an adequate manner. The fairer models, we believe, will stop the drain of personnel, especially from health care. The professional, efficient and responsible public administration, i.e. the whole public sector requires better social treatment and a better economic position, the basis of each work is pay. For these reasons, it is necessary for the state to codify the payment system in the public sector precisely to make the pay of most public sector employees as one-branded as possible. It's not simple. It is about the diversity of jobs, first of all, of expertise, competence and responsibility, and that is very diverse for certain sectors. What is certain, dear ministers, is that with your associates in a mandate that is not short, you have visited most of the local self-government, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, I assume that the parameters on which you have proposed the delay of the deadlines are very precise. For this reason, I support the definition of leaving more time to create a unique methodological basis for applying a new model for calculating wages, because it is where and where more justified to extend the deadlines for applying the basics than to make mistakes that can be reflected in the position of the whole parts of the public sector. In that sense, I support the proposed amendments to the law of the package, which is in charge, above all the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. When it comes to the Agency Business Act, little can be said on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group after Mr Nedja Jovanovic's presentation, but I will certainly draw attention to a few things. It is clear that the proposal is intended to regulate the area of employment in a different way by law. However, there is the impression that the law is not fully rounded, since the relationship between the employer and the persons of employment is not sufficiently precise. I'll make a few observations. I see the positive role of this agency, especially in the employment of our workers abroad, above all, because it could be guaranteed to the workers that they will certainly get their salaries for their work. Many cases are known when workers abroad were left without pay, as they went to work for unverified employers, first of all. That was particularly expressed in construction. Perhaps this employment model can contribute to reducing work to black, although here the labour inspection is almost irreplaceable in detecting work on black, but that's what the ministers themselves said, it seems to me, in your constructive conversation with colleague Radet. The fact is that the agency appears as an intermediary who, however, collects the costs of the employer, i.e. labour costs, because the employer's agency will charge a fee for the costs of concessions, which in some cases could pose a risk to a reduction in the labour price, as the employer now has to allocate more funds for such employment. On the other hand, agency employment can also be a stimulant to employers to hire new workers directly through competition and permanently, as it will make its costs aware of what is planned or will not at least have additional expenditure. I would draw attention to the phenomenon that in the context of the debate on this law in public, agency employment has often been compared to what youth and student associations are. Those two categories aren't the same at all. Youth cooperatives employ young students and students on temporary and occasional jobs that can last several hours to several days or months. Labour legislation knows the definition of temporary and occasional jobs, so it is a completely different form of employment from employment under this law. The agencies are hiring workers for a certain time, and that seems to be a key difference. We socialists have otherwise supported youth and student cooperatives and the obligation of health and PIO to protect students and students who work on this basis. Finally, certainly not in the sense of mentioning one of the important issues, which is that the law does not prescribe the Agency's obligation to have founding capital, or to obtain a work permit, which raises some doubt about the capacity of such agencies to work for the benefit of employees. In my opinion, the law requires that workers be subject to the obligation of a solid responsibility of the agency and the employer and of the rights, but also when it comes to labour injury or professional illness. What I want to point out is that this mildly critical reference to the law is nothing more than the intention of in future time, if the law shows some of the weaknesses we talked about today, they are absolutely corrected in favour of, above all, citizens and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65239	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65240	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Minister Djordjevic, respected ministers, Mr Ruzic with associates, dear fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected to the Assembly from the SNS list – Aleksandar Vucic, and I represent the United Peasants' Party. Otherwise, as I have so far supported the proposals of all these laws with an aspect, it is clear that there will be more funds for our workers working in the public sector. These people who have so far had a certain fee, or salary, which was, surely, I can say not good enough, will now have the opportunity to get higher funds, higher salaries, so that those people who work both in the police and in the military and the BIA, in the health care services, in education, in social protection institutions, all these people will have more opportunities to meet their needs. When someone said, "Well, this is small, it took more." But on the other hand, we need to be aware that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the first time gives the opportunity for people who do excellent work, who work for the benefit of their citizens, whether they are citizens of Svrliga, whether they are citizens of the White Palanka, whether they are citizens of Gajino Han, whether they are citizens of Belgrade, Novi Sad, these citizens will have better services. It would certainly be better when the payment law comes, which I hope will be in the course of next year, in the course of next year, I'm sure that some things will be worth better then, but right now, this is very important, because we know that people who work in these local self-governments, that the salaries there are very small, low, that because of the insufficient number of workers, let's say, the Srljig municipality has fewer employees than is prescribed and there are other municipalities. One worker has a number of reports, so this will sort of be a kind of satisfaction to them, so they can do their jobs better. On the other hand, I have been active as a union, where this part of these employment agencies, for me it would certainly be much better if these people had a permanent job, that they could work, that they would be safe at their work, but this is, in some way, the possibility that because of certain legislation, that people could get a job, that these people had the same opportunities, the same rights and the same obligations to work, with what is not within the working relationship, as my fellow MPs had just said before, in a working relationship where they have a status indefinitely. We are witnessing that the period behind us has shown that there is a tendency of growth and wages, that there is a tendency to grow in providing more resources for the development of undeveloped areas. This growth level goes from 2012 to these days, where it's really visible, where employment is much higher, where we used to have over 20% of the unemployed at the record level, and now it's below 10%. I can only say one thing when I'm speaking, and I'm going to say in the next period, I come from Srlig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, that there are suggestions and objections to my activities in the Assembly, why I'm not saying that I come from the poorest municipality in Serbia, because we are the fourth group of underdevelopment, devastated, municipalities that have a very bad demographic picture. It's a state-of-the-art. I expect that we will have the opportunity to have in the next period within the competent ministry and the work and social policy, i.e. the competent finance ministry, tax policy, that such municipalities can be freed for every employer who wants to open his company in such municipalities as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, to provide those people with the means, that they are stimulated by the release of a certain part of the mandatory tax paid under gross earnings, and that this difference that should be between 50-70%, is for these workers the possibility of increasing wages. In this way, we would not have as the poorest municipality of the lowest salary in Serbia, but employers would come to give opportunity, hire people, with an obligation to raise wages. That way these people would have paid over 40,000 dinars. I think, since we're going to be discussing amendments tomorrow, concerning the laws of tax policy, the release from certain categories and municipalities, I think this is necessary, because in this way we would have the opportunity to pay the average in these municipalities, not to increase the pay average when public sector wages are increased, but from the real sector, that workers can have a higher salary, and we are witnessing that serious investors, strong companies do not want to come to municipalities like Svrljig, such as Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, municipalities that, as small as they say, do not have enough capacity for certain categories of jobs, but it is very important that we recognize that we know that such municipalities, devasted areas, have to give the opportunity to free more employers, to be able to make that difference more pay for workers. In this way, we would certainly get better jobs and higher wages and a safe life for people. Thanks again. I, as a folk MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will vote for a set of these laws, because it is necessary and necessary to improve life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65241	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65242	Thank you. Dear Serbian citizens, in today's debate, we are dealing with a set of five laws from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs. These are the following draft laws: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Public Agency Employees and other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, Autonomous Province or Local Self-Government Units, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Officials of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the Autonomous Region and the Unit of Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law amending the Public Services Act and a Proposal for a law on Agency Employment. The topic of today's debate is therefore also about employment, and in my discussion I will mention some examples, more accurate investments in Novi Sad, and as a way of new employment. By banning employment in the public sector, SNS has introduced order in this segment of society, and by providing investments, it has opened up the possibility of employment in the real sector economy, which has thus been restored and strengthened finally started to pay obligations, and thus opens up the possibility of new employment in the public sector, this time on healthy legs. So I can mention the Scientific and Technological Park, which gave Vojvodina and Serbia one of the most important institutions for high-tech education and development. The value of this investment is 13m euros. With the support of President Vukic, we managed to bring two large international production companies from the car industry, Aptiv, which currently employs about 3,000 workers and Lir with close to 2,600 employees working in the North 4 factory, where it is located next to the Dutch company CTP, and a new industrial facility is being built. We expect Knorr to start hiring this year, and there are smaller companies, such as Denmark's Quickfire, then Lidl, Promenada, the Continental Research and Development Centre, which employed 2,000 engineers in the first year of business. "Beri Kalebo" group, the world's leading manufacturer of chocolate products and high quality cocoa comes to Serbia. This giant has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the government of Serbia and the city of Novi Sad. So I could count a lot more. In one sentence, in this period Novi Sad has become a place of development, which is witnessed by the fact that it has become the European capital of young people and the European capital of culture. These are just some examples of investments that allow new employment in the Novi Sad area, as well as the whole country, since SNS and Mayor Milos Vukevic took responsibility for the city. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Vukic, despite interference from those who led the country to the brink of collapse, continues to work and build. In voting day, I'll be happy to support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65243	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65244	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the third week in a row, we are discussing legislation that will contribute to the growth of living standards and the creation of new jobs on the one hand, while on the other hand, it will contribute to economic growth and development. On Thursday, we voted in favour of the draft law on the development budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 and immediately launched a debate on new draft laws which, together with the adopted budget, will produce full results in terms of economic growth and development. The first four draft laws we are discussing today concern the redefining of the legal deadlines, related to the start of the application of the pay grade in the public sector, while the Agency Employment Act aims to protect the rights of agency workers. Therefore, the law provides for equalising the rights of agency workers with employees in the employer, i.e. the employer who, for the purposes of his job, is also employed by agency workers, in addition to regular employees. After the adoption and entry into force of the law, agency workers will have the right to vacation and regress, they will have the right to sick leave, the right to compensation due to temporary prevention for work, as well as other labour rights, which are the right to raise housing, consumer and other loans, etc. Also, the bill will contribute to the absolute material protection of agency workers due to labour injuries. The bill we are discussing today is another evidence in a series, that the state takes care of each citizen of Serbia. Why didn't we have laws that protect workers before? By 2012, in a sea of fired and unemployed people, no one was concerned about discussing proposals for laws protecting workers' rights, and people agreed to work for 15 thousand dinars, as far as the minimumer was at the time, just to feed their family. The year 2019 is the year of work and years of construction. For the first time in 24 years, we have a single-digit unemployment rate. We can boast that our unemployment rate is lower than both the countries in the environment and the EU member states. Serbia has a lower unemployment rate than Montenegro by about 5%, a double unemployment rate from BiH, more than twice the unemployment rate of northern Macedonia, then a lower unemployment rate of Serbia, both from Spain and Greece, which are EU member states. I particularly look forward to the fact that the sectors in which we have growth in employment are large and small trade, construction, IT sector and services. A rise in trade employment on high and slightly testifys that there has been a rise in living standards in Serbia, that there has been an increase in the purchasing power of citizens. Employment growth in the construction sector testifys that the state intensively implements infrastructure projects and that it employs our domestic construction companies. The growth of employment in the IT sector testifys that Serbia is developing and digitising intensively, and when it comes to employment growth in the service sector, in my opinion, it is the greatest proof that there has been a rise in the standard of living in Serbia because, when you have developed a territorial sector, it tells you what your level of development in Serbia is, and at this point Serbia is on the right track, towards a high rate of economic development. If it continues at this pace, and surely it will, our real chances are to reach the EU's unemployment rate, which is 6.3% soon. The government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the money of Serbian citizens. Every penny of tax paid, contributions, tolls, to Serbian citizens is returned through the construction of infrastructure, through highway construction, construction of local roads to the farthest rural areas, through the construction of schools, kindergartens, health institutions, etc. Serbia's picture changed dramatically in 2019 compared to 2012. Themes in Serbia have changed. In 2012, our main occupation was how to get the country out of potential bankruptcy, while in 2019 we talk about digitisation, we talk about record exports of information technologies, we talk about the highest rate of economic growth in Europe. For example, for the first eight months of 2019, the export of information technologies is higher than the whole of 2017, not to mention 2010, 2011, 2012, when the IT sector did not even exist in Serbia. Unlike these boycotters, who are involved in inventing fake affairs, such as the Krusik affair, doctorate, Jovanjica and many others, the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia work responsibly and the president of the state together with members of the government each day does something good for the citizens and for Serbia. Why didn't they talk about Krusik when they destroyed over 33 pieces of weapons and military weapons? Why didn't they talk about Krusik when the factory, as well as many others in the country, led to the shut-down by 2012? In 2013, 1,264 people worked in Krusik. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is what SNS does – by hiring people, by building infrastructure, not by day-to-day lies and inventions. As far as they have no evidence of their inventions, the fact is that they are now, after 10 years, checking their comrades – Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and many others from this false elite who have just lectured on this "Megatrend" that they have now taken hold of. Now I want to ask these from the Gilas Council – how was "Megatrend" a good university when lectures on it were held by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, and diplomas from that period are not good? Apparently, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic were not good lecturers. I really don't understand. Serbian citizens are not interested in Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, or Dragan Djilas, and this is what the citizens showed in the 2012 elections, 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Serbian citizens are interested in working and living off their work, and this is what makes it possible for SNS. I really don't know what kind of message they want to send these Alliance for Serbia, drawing a target on the chest of a president of a state who's also a son, and a father, and a brother, and a husband? That is how they threaten all of us who think differently from the Alliance for Serbia, who are fighting for the state and for our people. Pointing a gun at the president of the Republic in the country where the prime minister was killed in 2003 is indeed for every conviction. Those from the Alliance for Serbia do not realize that this is not 2000 and that there is no violent way to come to power in Serbia. This isn't even 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, 2009, when they robbed the country and the people the most. This is the year 2019. The circumstances in Serbia have changed dramatically. Serbia is a better place to live today and will therefore support all proposals for the law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65245	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65246	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, one of the colleagues whose party, if I am not mistaken, called the Modern Serbian Party, said they were a Europhile party. The Serbian Radical Party is against Europe and in terms of the EU. We understand each other here, rather than go back to the bill. Mr. Ruzic, don't mind us, I won't talk much about these laws, which doesn't mean they don't matter. You're here in a diplomatic way trying to solve something that you failed in the period when you were a minister and before you failed, so it's only now that one deadline is being extended, so we won't look much at it, which doesn't mean that we shouldn't go back to one sentence to say that when it comes to employees in local self-government, state administration, autonomous province, in other public enterprises, they're not congratulating, they're good, I'd say professional. Also, compared to these, there are others who have come to these places under certain circumstances, I would say, even suspicious, but that was before. You make sure it's as small as possible. When it comes to this Agency Employment Act, Mr. Djordjevic, we would ask you to take what the MPs of the SRS say a little more seriously into consideration. You announced, or the prime minister of the government, that in the coming years and the finance minister in the next few years, the state will subsidise the employment of those who were not employed in 2019, even by revoking commitments at 100% of the first year, next year somewhat less, etc. We don't suffer from conspiracy theory, but it seems to us here that this agency that you now want to legalize, or the possibility of setting up these agencies, which you want to legalize, is somehow saving you these funds in the budget. There's one far more dangerous thing than this, and you have to pay attention to that. Remember when one other law regulated it, the Agency on Physical Technical Security, and there was one former ambassador who was also one of the first owners of those agencies. You know, for very little money, they got a very serious intelligence structure. With a little money in a short time they have it. It should pay attention here that unless the law is adopted as it is, it should not have far-reaching consequences for workers in Serbia. We're completely different here. We think the Labour Act should be completed and you say they don't recognize him. In the light of the bill's proposal, it states that the Labour Law could not resolve some dilemmas and some ambiguities, and thus it was defined to what was certainly in place so far to introduce it into the legal framework. Only when Serbian citizens remember what the 2001 Labour Act was like. This is best known by both families and many others who were working in Serbia at the time, so this may be done, but we do not want to experiment with something that we know for sure in advance that it will not produce good results. Very often here we can hear that the standard of living has increased. Yes, but you're talking about those marginal groups. Are they recognized here? Are those in that marginal group -- what is their standard of living? How well can they live and feel what we have? What else can happen here? The question is because of the rapid fluctuation, Mr. Minister, we are explicitly in order to be absolutely clear and against this kind of solution to this problem, we are so that if the Labour Law needs to be corrected and that the situation is settled so that it will be good for both employers and employees. Here, if this is understood well and the law is applied very little, the owners of these agencies will be able to count on the funds that the state normally allocates, if nothing else through tax exemptions and employee contributions. Because of the rapid change, because of the rapid fluctuation in the movement of these employees, we cannot have that advantage. A large number of Serbian workers engaged through these agencies, or as it has been called so far, is around 70,000. Of course, there's different data we wouldn't be bickering about right now, but that's a very large number. We are very often pleased to point out that we cannot find enough workforce. That fact should be taken into account and taken all those measures that can lead to and deliver good results because of other situations. It's not just about the growth of living standards and the better profits most citizens can make when they leave first, to say, west, and of course, why not, and in Russia, they can make a better profit. They go for both perspectives and for their children. So he's also thinking about his generations, about his heirs, and we now need to take measures that will give results that are not expected in a year, two or more. I suppose that Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and the government are taking some measures regarding population policy, but there are no unsolicited, there are no more serious results, and the question is whether they will still be if all of this and these bill proposals go the way we do. So it takes a lot more attention here to protect the employees first and foremost. What will these agencies lead to? I'm sure we'll have one unfair competition. They say there is a situation happening in Serbia now that a completely unknown man stops by a construction site and surveyes employees – how much you have paid. And now they say. It is mainly about those deficiting interests at the moment in Serbia. And when they say -- we have 800, 900, even 1,000 euros, and he asks them -- would you come work with me for 1,200 etc? It's unfair competition. True, it suits those who would be busy after that, but the question is, how honest is it, how real is it? Why did you organize so many employment fairs through the Employment Service if we do not trust and are not sure that it can produce good results? We think that the records at the National Employment Service are good, so you said – if a certain worker is received, because a certain public tendering firm gets a job in one cycle, the next is not her, but another firm, so the agency will be there. The National Employment Service can also be a mediator, and in that case we are absolutely sure there will be no racketeering either by the state authorities in such a way or by those employers. This can result in exactly the kind of situation, that comes to, I would say, inappropriate, and even unwanted co-operation between the owners of the agency, workers and employers as three entities that appear here. If you don't listen to us, which seems to me to be such a climate and a mood for you not to listen to us, then pay attention, we have submitted a number of amendments and should condition these future owners of the agency to have some deposit, to have some guarantee to secure the employment status of employees who go from the agency to the economic operator. You don't think it's necessary now. When the tourism law was in force and some felt that it was not necessary for tourism agencies to have a greater limit than it was at that time, but that it could be with a small amount of funding to provide some guarantee, so when students and students and other tourists had problems abroad, it was realized that we had to increase that limit. And there's something that needs to be done to make it so. I'm just saying this to you in case you don't accept our suggestions, but define yourself to go firmly and unconditionally towards the adoption of this Agency Employment Act, but limit, or try to ensure that the protection of employees is provided in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65247	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65248	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would like to inform the public today that it is 336 days that MPs of the opposition do not come to work in order to receive wages and thus clearly show their relationship to the function they perform, according to the National Assembly and also to the citizens of Serbia. We know, and now the citizens know that the great majority of them would return to parliament, they would return to their jobs, but they don't want Dragan Gilas, Dragan Gilas, who is the formal and informal head of all of them and he's the one who decided not to let them go back to parliament and who could follow this Spanish series in the DS could see that what I'm saying is true. So Branislav Lecic virtually admitted that Dragan Gilas decides in the DS, not the easy leadership. Here's what Lecic says - decisions in the DS are made outside the DS Board and perhaps outside the party itself. DS member Branislav Lecic said he has long witnessed the usurpation of democracy in the DS, saying it is certainly not democratic. Well, he says -- the discussion is a front, decisions are made outside the main board, and that leads me to a justifiable conclusion that party decisions are made outside the party itself. This confirms that Dragan Gilas is actually the head and DS and does not allow DS deputies to return to parliament. A confirmation of this also came from DS Paunovic's deputy president, you remember that Paunovic known for those famous affairs in the municipality of Paracin, which still holds the president of the municipality, so Paunovic says - parliamentary salaries have been caused by the division of the DS. So, he is referring to a group of DS MPs who left the meeting of the General Committee, probably dissatisfied in the way the leadership runs that party, and they are now actually accusing them of some kind of breakup in the party. But let's leave ourselves alone now, this soap opera that's been going on for a couple of seasons and a few episodes. Today we are discussing laws in the area of salaries of government employees, in public administration, as well as agency employment. Accordingly, I cannot, not to point out that the unemployment rate in Serbia, therefore, according to official data from the Statistics Office has fallen below 10%, which is a huge success, especially given that at the time of the government of this party that I was just talking about, the other parties of the former regime have reached as much as 25%. But you won't hear this information on "N1" television either, you won't read it in "Today", or in "NIN", or in "Time", or in all their media because it's not news to them. They are not concerned with it, they are dealing with other things these days by drawing a target at the head of Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic, but also not only by drawing targets, but by making fun of it afterwards. You can see on the front page and today's edition of "Today" cartoon in which Aleksandar Vukic and the targets were drawn, and now they mock their cover from "NIN", where they drew a real target that represented an invitation killing, or at least the least said wishing to kill the president, and they continue from day to day in "Today" on the cover you have a cartoon that mocks a single act like this. When it comes to legal solutions that are on the agenda, the positive effects of the adoption of these laws are seen in the protection and improvement of the conditions of persons employed, practical equalisation in terms of conditions with respect to other employees and in particular what is most important to me, improving the working legal status by passing from the temporary and occasional contracts to the labour contract, and thus providing the rights under the Labour Act. I don't think I have to stress what a benefit it is for employees, so moving from a temporary and occasional job contract to work contracts. So there are better working conditions, and increased earnings, the right to compensation for the cost of leaving and coming from work, to eat, to regress for vacation, to spend time on the official trip, to stay on the ground and everything else provided for by the Labour Act. I don't need to talk about safety and health at work, overtime, vacation rights, holiday rights, absences and everything else that's already covered by the current Labour Act. For all these reasons, I believe that strong support should be given to today's legislative proposals, and the SNS will vote in favour of these proposed acts in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65249	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65250	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will today, in the debate in principle, look back and put a special accent on a whole new system law, which is the law on agency employment. Why am I going to put an accent on him? Because for the first time the working conditions of workers are improved and the working legal status of those workers who were formerly employed in temporary and occasional jobs is resolved. Now these employees at the user's employer are closing their work contract. There is a huge difference in benefits for the employee between the occasional and temporary contracts and the employment contracts. What does that mean? This means that an agency worker, or one who is employed by an agency, has the same rights as an employee, or worker who works indefinitely on the same business with the employer. What are equal rights? These are primarily equal rights to profit and thus improve the quality of life and living standards of workers. That is the goal of this government and the SNS. What does that mean for those particularly sensitive groups, which are pregnant women, maternity mothers, nursing mothers? This means that they have the same labour rights, as well as the rights of those workers who have been admitted indefinitely to the employer's user. Also, what other benefits do workers who are employed like this get? They get the right to use sick leave. So far, workers who have been engaged in temporary and occasional jobs could not use the right to be sick. They get the opportunity to use their annual vacations, get the possibility of using overtime fees, get the ability to increase earnings for night work. I would also like to point out, when it comes to the safety and health of employees through the agency of the user's employer, employees enjoy all the rights relating to safety and health at work and the employer is obliged to introduce the worker to all risks that can result in his life and health and, of course, the employer of the user is obliged to enable and carry out medical examinations if necessary. It is also important that the employer is a user through this law, when it comes to labour injuries and occupational diseases, to submit within 24 hours a report to the Employment Agency, and, of course, a further report on injury to work or occupational illness to the competent ministry. It is also significant that the clearly specified conditions under which agencies can be established as regards both their establishment and their obtaining work permits are clearly specified. It is also important that this law is in a completely transparent way that I consider, all the objections discussed, which have been accepted, which has been held in several cities of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must point out that this country is leading and how responsible social policy is. We also saw that when we were reviewing the 2020 Budget Law, because I have to point out that 30 of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has increased funding by 5.8 billion dinars. Serbia today is a major construction site, Serbia today is a country in which it works and builds, there are more than 41 thousand construction sites in Serbia today, only in Belgrade there are over 2,000. At the time of the yellow tycoon and robbery companies, when they ruled until 2012, there were 1,500 construction sites in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's proof and it's an indicator of how much they cared about employment, about the standard of living of citizens and how important citizens really were to them. Also, I must stress that since January 1st it is the minimum profit of 30,022,00 dinars, that this is the largest increase in minimum earnings. Also, I have to point out that the salaries were also increased from 8% to 15%, that unemployment was never less than 9.5%, in their time it was 26%. Also, I must point out that some cities, like Indjia and Sremska Mitrovica, have jobs of about 5%. So this government and the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic is a policy in the interests of workers and in the interest of every Serbian citizen. But I must stress that it is a shameful, morbid and disgraceful policy on whose front pages, which are "NIN" and "Today" list, is pointed at our President Alexander Vukic, knowing that by resisting bayonets and drawing targets at him, they fire a bullet directly into the country, because they shoot at the best. It's a shame about journalism that is without journalistic ethics, without morality, with no responsibility and no truth. Of course, we from the SNS know that the policy of robbers, yellow dens and pathological liars in the image of Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Tadic and others is behind it. They are the past, their policy is without ideas, it's a policy of morbidity, and that's why the politics of life, the politics of Alexander Vukic will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65251	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65252	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that this government's policy is full of contradictions, because given that we had the opportunity to hear that the golden age is currently on stage, that our economic opportunities are such, that we are champions in the region, and then at the same time we see that this country pays pensioners' aid worth 5,000,00 dinars. So maybe it's not a little bit clearer to me, how this one country that is so successful, which is a Balkan tiger, is then in a situation where pensioners need to be paid any help. In our country, everything is the biggest in history, and then the reduction in pensions and wages is actually the level of salary and pensions at historical maximums, and so on and in each of these statistics and at all every minister who tries to predicate or mark something as his success is actually something that no one could have imagined before him, let alone something like that in Serbia and accomplish. We have, of course, had, so-called. austerity measures, we have seen that it is actually being saved on the poorest citizens since 2014, but the question is, what about numerous pre-election promises, primarily SNS, to save money with us. The Serbian Progressive Party, before it came to power, said it would prevent party employment, eliminate a large number of these pointless agencies and institutions, councils and various things that only suck out money from the state budget, serve nothing, and that these people, i.e. In these councils and agencies, people are hired by a party key. The Serbian Progressive Party said it would reduce red tape in Serbia, thus reducing all unnecessary costs and introducing a fast-track office. Here, it's been seven years, there's no office for quick answers, nothing's done on that plan. Even more, money is defined by a very broad, non-governmental sector, NGOs, especially those operating under a human rights firm, the protection of human rights, and we have seen that these are NGOs that actually have anti-Serbian policies, represented as civil society, and in fact they are very important political factors in Serbia that give us various political views on various issues. Their topics are Kosovo's independence, the genocide of the so-called in Srebrenica and Serbs who by nature are the greatest criminals and the worst on the planet. So that's how money is spent from the state budget. We're talking about the unemployment rate below 10%. So what we can hear from the discussion is in great contradiction with reality in Serbia. We cannot comment so unrealisticly here and say that we in Serbia have a shortage of labour and that we have a large number of employees. These people may be employed, but in Germany, Austria, Sweden, throughout Western Europe, as well as in Russia and in other countries. We cannot reduce unemployment in a way that people who are working in a job are no longer working in Serbia but working abroad. Well, then, according to that key, we have fewer unemployed. The employment agency, I don't know how to explain the need for their existence in the Serbian system, why we need intermediaries between employers and workers. That employment agency certainly makes a living. Whether that money, earned by some Employment Agency, would have been otherwise used by the employer, for example, to increase the salary. There are still salaries in the largest number of factories, businesses, companies, whatever, around the minimum wage, representing 30,022 dinars. What is the need for their existence in the first place? We see an increase in wages, help for pensioners, etc. He boasted of Mr. Antic at the lowest price of electricity in Europe. We've seen the current accumulated now. So we're going to raise the wages a little bit, but then we're going to raise the electricity price a little bit. We've seen in the past few days the same broken SNS promise, which was supposed to be the cancellation of a public service subscription, i.e. for RTS and RTTV. What do we need the radio-television of European Vojvodina or of European Serbia, what does that mean? Is it, then, on the line of these human rights organizations, or does it always have to represent Serbia? Serbia's radio-television, therefore, is an imperative to finance, to fund every citizen of Serbia at the expense of electricity. What's the logic here? Serbia's radio-television, for which Kosovo is an independent state, which publishes every time, from a weather forecast to a variety of reports and any news, a map of Serbia without KIM territory, where salaries are huge, which has an administrative or supervisory board, which by no one knows by which key it is drawn, and no one knows by what principle it is chosen, rather than that it is under the control of the National Assembly, which absolutely has a huge proportion of the representation of political parties in its information shows, so that we see that around 99% of the time devoted politics in Serbia, political events are actually defined for SNS and SPS. Then we can also see dissatisfaction in some media that support the government of Serbia, this RTS, the yellow Buket, yellow Olya and all others. Is that contradictory? Therefore, funds from Serbia's budget are being spent irrationally. All that SNS resents the former regime, those biggest thieves, and everything else, is now in a situation to carry out the same thing, just a little more calm, but it doesn't make any difference. We have a reduction in unemployment in Serbia, not because of large factories, great successes, there are, of course, but it is not at the level it represents, but because we have a serious demographic outflow from Serbia every year. It's a matter to be dealt with by the Ministry of Labour. This will not improve the status of workers in Serbia and employment. We can count, we can finally get to the bill that there are no unemployed in Serbia at all, but will it really be when we get out of this room or when they leave some ministry? Well, he won't. We're not in such a situation, we don't have the luxury of talking, to brag about gold age, the greatest wages, the greatest pensions. Let's see what the real situation in Serbia is, in line with making decisions, and see where the money can be saved. It can be saved for RTS funding. We do not need television to represent the national television for which Kosovo is an independent state. We do not need funding from NGOs for which genocide, Kosovo independently, Serbs bombed themselves, Serbs the biggest criminals etc. We should be looking for a solution, not the burden of those poorest citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65253	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65254	Here, just the public to hear what absurdities the proposer of these legal acts is going to. Article 10 of this proposal on agency employment discusses the engagement of labour in EU countries. So he says, among other things, in the case of remuneration of employees to an employer who is active in the territory of an EU Member State, and from a European economic space, in addition to those elements of that article, it contains: 1) the duration of work abroad, 2) the currency in which the earnings will be paid, 3) where necessary other monetary and non-financial payments related to abroad, and 4) where necessary, the conditions governing the return of posted employees to the Republic of Serbia and ultimately says – the provision of Article 1 does not apply if the duration of work abroad does not exceed one month. And this is by European standards, this is what the Slovenians would say – Europas dai. This is – Europe has no alternative. This would somehow be dosed with great optimism, if, in an explanation of these members, that same Article 10 of this proposal of the law did not make it clear and decident that these articles are the elements of the labour contract in the event of the entry of employees to the user who carries out work in the territory of EU Member States and of the European Economic Area. This provision will apply from the date of the entry into the EU of full membership of the Republic of Serbia. If it wasn't contained, if it wasn't written, a man couldn't believe it. How long are we going to listen to these sadomasochist ideas? This is sadomasochism already. You're literally destroying yourself. So the President of France comes to you and says -- there is no talk of EU enlargement, so Merkel, Frau Merkel, who you consider half-godliness, tells you, although you have now turned to what lives with the teacher, but let's not discuss it, so they tell you, there's no talking about EU enlargement. You, again, even in the laws, are not keeping track, so any logically looking at this would further propose to amend and supplement this law when Serbia enters the EU, so it would put in Article 10. This remains as something to confirm your masochistic behavior. You have laws that are passed by emergency procedure, but will take effect once Serbia becomes an EU member, there are such laws. These are all pearls, this is for science. How can you even propose in one law a member who regulates relations with EU members, and then say: it is effective and applies when Serbia is a full member of the EU? Who else needs to come from the EU to you, gentlemen, and to announce definitely no Serbia's entry into the EU? If you talk about it, you see what is the condition – the settlement of territory, 15% of the territory called Kosovo and Metohija for starters, and then the AP Vojvodina, then the Raska area. So is there anyone in this room, is there anyone in this Serbia that doubts what we Serbian radicals are saying? Well, you know that, too, and you point that out, but what do you care? It's important to put as something that's promising, something that's light at the end of the tunnel, and that's this article on the 10th in this whole law. We have no objection to regulate the relationship between workers and employers, to be something that will guarantee the safety of both workers and employers, but above all should be the rights of workers, the rights of employers, the safety of workers, the safety of employers. The minister also cites one of the extreme cases. No, it became a rule, it became a rule, lobbying within workers by unions who overnight do nothing like mushrooms, so they turn into workers' representatives, by taking advantage of their temporary employment, gaining them as a union, and then they represent and see them on TV almost daily in public appearances of these so-called. The civil servants on the rights of the workers, who perform, present their political views, and the workers are totally secondary. What the SRS insists on is that the sooner you abolish the decision to ban employment. You here have a series of illogicalities, not only when it comes to this legislative proposal, but in your political decisions and moves and performances. You say there is a deficit in certain areas, in certain segments, and yet you still have a decision to ban employment. You're so selective. We're leaving young educated people, they can't get a job, they're out of college, they want to get a job, they want to work. He can't, because it's a ban on employment. Even certain ministers do not know that this decision is valid until the end of 2020, so we listened to what the Committee said, which here in this room – at the end of this year puts the decision out of effect. Even the ministers were not informed, which is simple to deny, at the end of 2020. But, ladies and gentlemen, where will these people who have completed schools, high schools, colleges, of course, do I count these things overnight, but I count these young people who are the potential needed by Serbia, if this decision is still in force? You have to put it out of force. As for the pay grade, it's obviously a painful point for you. Obviously, you'll find all the reasons to justify something that can't be right, which is that it's not the time to approach a systematization of paying classes, that it's not the time, that it doesn't get anything, that in that way it might seem a greater injustice. All of these are floscules that have only the task of delaying, which creates an even bigger problem, especially the functioning of the public sector, the state administration. There'll only be problems. We've been telling you drastic examples. It's just that a man can't believe that and it can't in any way move you to start thinking maturely, to start acting responsiblely, to have more salaries in some public companies than are graduate lawyers in certain local self-governments or administrations of this state. This means nothing to you that, depending on happiness or some coincidence, a lawyer who works in one ministry can have more or less income than his colleague who does the same in the Serbian government, but in another ministry. We Serbian radicals will always honor you as something you did not agree with, perhaps with the IMF or you didn't agree with each other, and then you speak to the public a thousand excuses that none of them are based on reality. When it comes to some draft laws, it is something that is meant when the budget is adopted, and it is quite normal to extend to 2021. What Serbian radicals do not want to stress is that in addition to the strong promises that many agencies will be abolished. Think, gentlemen, that we have one mediator between the central government, or the republican government and local self-government. That middleman is the province administration. In this province administration, thousands are employed. No one says they'll lose their jobs, but why have an intermediary between the government's transmission and decisions from the state level at the local level. There is no need for this, therefore, to think about how the administration should function rationally in line with economic and financial opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65255	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say I haven't heard any serious or at least realistic objections to a set of laws we're now discussing. If the biggest problem is that the law will be applied and when Serbia becomes a full member of the EU in some of its parts, then it is not some serious objections. However, I cannot understand colleagues who are attacking the Agency Employment Act. Here, I will praise him, and those who attack him let them know what it looks like and how the law was applied until just a few years ago. Let me get this straight. The agencies that provided services and employees in them were in a semi-grey zone. Here, I'm going to make an example of what happened in the Energy Combined Bone. It's about a separate company, production, remont and installation, and it's about PRIM, and it's about 2009. As an isolated company, it means that it no longer works in the EPS system, but works for the EPS because of its specificity, the director for 75% of the employees, who were directly engaged in the maintenance of the energy combination, gave them cancellations. But he also instructed them to hire a special agency that connected a person to him. You know what that looked like? These people didn't leave their jobs. They were physically present where they worked and before they fired, they just changed their employers. One more thing, they received half of their salary, and a separate company production, remonting and assembly paid the agency neatly as a worker received earlier profits, even slightly higher. It's the same thing that happened here in the PKB Belgrade. You know when Dragan Gilas, as reportedly worried about Belgrade's assets, broke the privatisation contract, so they narrowed down the PKK, so they were doing something there as fairy tales, doing some agricultural production. All PKK employees were employed through an agency owned by Dragan Gilas. They all received one-off profits from the agencies, and they were getting barely as much as they had to survive. So Dragan Djilas robbed the PKB of Belgrade, so through this sports centre in Stari Grad heisted Bastic, so in a certain way and damaged the companies that come here as performers of public works, the state is powerless. They engage through the agency workers, and often engineers who run the business are owners of the agencies that hire these workers. They also damage their employer, damage workers and damage the Republic of Serbia. Now, if you want to attack a law that will stop it, go ahead, I don't mind, but you know what you're attacking. Because the law stipulates that whether he's employed at a certain, indefinite time or through an agency, they must have the same salary. Are you against it? I don't know why, if it is. Find something else to criticize. Don't try to maintain the system established by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic, Bozidar Djelic and the team, Miodrag Kostic, and not to count further. If you want that system to stay, then support them, make them richer. That's what Miskovic was doing, renting to the state by 2012, the state paid them as if they were doctors of science, and these people were getting barely minimum wage, a little bit more, you can't just pay off just a little bit more to pay off. Serbia's unemployment rate is falling. It's not the result of the diaspora labour drain. Forget about it, it's been before, it's been a lot more, twice as much. Well, then we got to 26.27% of the unemployed if there was an outflow of labour. Or let me, and I can still call it Perpetum Mobiles, I read as much as I read on Friday how many deposits are employed in a pension and disability insurance fund, and then someone shows up and says, "No, that's not true, there's no such increase in employment in Serbia. Well, where did that money come from, it creates itself. You know, if you want to criticize, attack what's wrong. I think the opposition is business. I don't expect you to praise the government or praise the president, but I expect you to at least present the exact information. With this law, a system that has, firstly, damaged employees, damaged the state, abolished itself, brought about a fairer way of editing, allowed employers to increase their employment, because they would not have to employ a man indefinitely, but only for the period he needs. But the one working through the agency with such an employer will also receive a salary as if he were indeed a worker with that employer. I don't know what's going on here? The time has come, we talked about it backwards, here, in 2014, that with the reduction of the unemployment rate it will begin to change and the cost of working in the Republic of Serbia. Here, it's changing. We crossed that magic line below 10%. Now the employers start looking for better and better workers, and they're more and more ready to pay them. But it had to come from something. If someone's going to say that failure is that it's the average profit of 500 euros, if someone's going to say that failure is that employers have accepted that minimum earnings are 30,000 dinars, if someone says it's not good that our unemployment rate is below 10% and if it is, it's the credit of some others and not these governments, if someone says that 300km of highways doesn't exist, I'm asking a question -- and how much does he really love his country? Because that's all the things you can see. It's all verifiable, visible. When we engage in these discussions, we must always make sure that time does not deny us. It also denied Balša Bozovic and Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Gilas, the entire former regime. The events have been denied. That's why we make laws like this. Not to deny them, but to make Serbia a better place to live. Not only are our children no longer leaving, but so are those who have left, although it is difficult, but to start coming back. Some have already returned. They saw that it wasn't so great and great and that Serbia could be a nice place to live if a man wanted to work and earn his salary honestly. That's why laws like this should be supported, not criticized for no reason. Serbia has started a new phase in its development since 2014, which was launched by current President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister. We cleared up the good part and with tycoons, gray zones, and this law certainly is just one small step to make Serbia a better place to live, to keep our children here. That's why this bill in the voting day should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65257	Thank you, colleague Arsic. A colleague of Radeta, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65258	We heard a little before the address obviously to our MP group, because no one else has criticised the proposals of these laws, and then a colleague says: don't attack, etc. We're not attacking anyone. We're speaking critically of the government's bill. Stop that mantra, if we say - we don't want to steal on highways, you say - you're against highways. If we say - we don't need this agency, agency employment, you say - you want to keep what is Tadic, Đilas, etc. Established 10 years ago. You guys are acting like kids. We don't want that. We were the first to say we wouldn't do that. And we've been telling you all day that you need to stop it, and now, like, we support something that the yellow ones once introduced. Who tells us that? That's what those who supported the Brussels Agreement, the perpetrators, the notaries, all possible agencies, the financing of NGOs, the European way at the cost of which I don't know. Well, don't you people, you're messing around somewhere where you really can't tell us anything. We're talking about these laws and you're talking about these laws. And not now, if we say - this law is not good, we want to leave a Tadic. No, I don't. We will, long ago we want that Tadic to be abolished. We didn't want it when they brought it in. And today, we've told the minister 152 times that our proposal is to put an end to some of the more insane agencies. But that's why we don't need these, but that we have a nice job service, a national employment service, and that anything that's related to employment can go and should go and only go through that service. Not now, to talk to someone who doesn't sit here, then to do it through us. Don't, please, meet me there somewhere and make a nice deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65259	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65260	NGOs are also religious communities, political parties and not to count further, the Red Cross. They're all NGOs. And that's why the funds are defined in the budget. If we're going to regulate some matter by law, I think we should, and those who would regulate by eradicating and banning are often unable to exercise power. So, something's being regulated by the law. There are exactly the legal frameworks in which it should be moved. I don't know what's going on here? I guess that's why there's a law, huh? To regulate an area, not to be abused, that someone should not be deceived. I guess it's as real as science that people don't fight and fight over everything and everything, huh? Now we say no, take it and forbid it. Well, all right. It's not a problem, the congregation's majority can always do anything. But what if there really is a need for such a way of employment? Come on, explain it to me. So what do we do? For example, a man needs a certain profile of an employee with experience, to work with him for three months, can't find him at the Bureau, because no one with experience will work with the employer for three months, what should he do, not do his job? Or is he not supposed to get a job because it's going to be armed for three months? Let the agency do it. Only, unlike the systems set up by Dragan Djilas and Boris Tadic, he will have to pay for it, the employee, as much as his work really costs, not to put money in their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65261	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65262	Thank you, fellow Arsic, for explaining to me this stupidly what NGOs are. And I am now wise to say to him that you are funding from the budget the NGOs who sat here at the National Convention for the EU, to finance Milan Antonijevic, the successor of Jukom and those Biljana Kovacevic, to finance those who organised "Mirdita", to finance those who organised a gathering in Kolarc where they promoted some idea that genocide had taken place in Srebrenica, to finance Sonja Licht, to finance all those who are enemies of the Serbian and Serbian people. And not only are you funding them, but you've completely dragged them into the election process, you've dragged them into having them edit you, that they're all regulating the conditions of the election, that they'll be representatives of NGOs more than members of the RIK, who will instruct members of election committees in Serbia and give election committees some certifications. That's what you gentlemen finance, and then you tell us that the NGO is a church, a religious community, a Red Cross and so on. Mr. Arsic and his dear colleagues in power, we tell you one more time - don't give us anything we didn't tell you, which we didn't even think about. If you have no arguments to answer what we said, then shut up. If you have arguments about what I just said, now come in, so tell me – it is not true that NGOs will instruct the election committees on the state cost. Say it is not true that Milan Antonijevic wrote this proposal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave to the Republic of Election Commission, which is completely past the Constitution, past the law, etc. Say, if that's not true, and don't explain to us that the Red Cross is an NGO.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65263	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly is passing laws on which election processes are conducted, not NGOs, so let's get this straight. So, we are the ones who have the last word when it comes to electoral processes in the Republic of Serbia, but since there are many differences between us and the former regime, and why are we suffocating someone who doesn't have the same political attitude or any other opinion from the attitude that has the ruling majority? They do not feel in their corruption that they have done damage to the Republic of Serbia. They do not believe that in their corruption they harm the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Also, only one ideology, one of the darkest in the history of human civilization, did not allow us to think differently, and in this is the difference between the ijotics of Boško Obradovic and Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. We don't want to be like them. They have, like any other NGO, the right to apply, in accordance with their programmes and projects, funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Should we ban them? We won't. Why? We're not afraid of them. You don't realize that preventing diversity stems from fear. We're not afraid of them. We have our own results that we're proud of. They have their own results that no one wants to see and that everyone forgets them to come back to power now that the Republic of Serbia has settled public finances, to steal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65265	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65266	Too bad I didn't finish law school. If I did, I'd know exactly who's in charge and where the laws are passed and who's in charge of the election process. Unfortunately, what's going on here and now, I don't think the RIK session is over yet, the debate about what we're talking about here and we want the public to hear, yes, you're introducing something amazing, illegal, unconstitutional -- NGOs. There will be more of them in these bodies that will instruct, than members of the Republic Election Commission. Members of the Republic Election Commission through working bodies in local self-government will be pieces of five, and CESID, CRTA and other wonders of non-governmental pieces will be six. So, what law does that say? When did the National Assembly bring this? Is that even possible? It's not possible, I'm telling you something that's the whole truth. Here, ask. You have a Deputy Secretary RIK here, you have your members. Ask. So, fellow Arsic, you're talking about Gilas, agencies, Gilas' profits, etc. We didn't say that Gilas earned something on these agencies, maybe he did, maybe he earned it, but it's common knowledge that Gilas stole huge money on the bridge. Our question to you is how is it possible for the whole of Serbia to know how many millions of euros have been stolen on that bridge built by Gilas, that Gilas is walking free without criminal proceedings, without criminal charges, completely freed? As I said this morning, it is waiting slowly for the time of limitations to be conducted against him and others who have become rich by robbing this nation and this country. We're saying you won't chase them, and that, brother, is more than obvious. Here's who's one of those thieves... Every day you tell us who the thieves and the criminals are, and there's no criminal record against any of them, let alone the criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65267	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65268	Let's get this straight about the Republic Election Commission. The Republic Election Commission shall, by its decision, determine which of the NGOs to participate in the election procedure as an observer or to do some instruction, but, however, in accordance with the rules established by the Republic Election Commission, rather than their own rules. Now that we've reached Dragan Gilas, just because he owns the company doesn't mean he can come under the influence of the law if someone signs another act. As far as I know, the prosecution has initiated criminal proceedings against the responsible persons in the Darekt Media, which means Gilas's company and two RTS employees, as regards theft for seconds of the economic-propaganda programme. However, I must say that, not for the first time, I have said it more than once, and I will repeat, Mrs Dragan Gilas, Miskovic, Sugar Cole and others have written laws so as not to go to jail. They wrote laws and this National Assembly passed their private laws. Under the current Public Procurement Act, only up to 2.5% of contracted value of public works can be annexed due to unforeseen circumstances. In Gilas' time, you could have been 25%, and now we're talking about a bridge on Ada. The 25% goes to the new 25%, plus the basic contract, and then the two times 25% and the basic contract goes to another 25%. For three times, they annexed the contract and increased the value of works by close to 100% than it was the basic value of the contract and all of it was allowed by the Public Procurement Act. One more thing, when you criticise, in what law until 1 April 2013, was there a crime of abuse in the public procurement process? Not when he was Gilas, so he could steal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65269	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65270	Mr. Milicevic, does it seem to you that I may be speaking immeasurably? Do you understand what I'm saying? A colleague obviously doesn't understand. I'm worried now that maybe I'm not speaking clearly enough. So when it comes to RIK, I'm not talking about CESID, CRTA, etc. as election monitors. Comrade Arsic, or you don't know, if you don't know, inform yourself, or you deliberately want to deceive the public. It is not about whether they will sit there at the polling station, but about what you are fully introducing them into the electoral process, from instruction, from holding instructions to counting votes. Is that what the law says? It doesn't say. Are the working bodies the organs to conduct the election? By law, they're not. Who are the electoral authorities? The Election Committee and RIK and the Municipal Election Commission when elections for certain actions are held together. Does it say otherwise in the law? We know what you want. You want to be instructed by these members of the electoral committees, that you give them a certificate and that it turns out that one of you has members of the constituency committees and then you give them to Misi Vacic, the one, the one, the one, the one, the one, the only, to have members, or to have a vast majority of the election board members in the polling post. Well, we've seen you through, as we've seen what you're going to do with what you're going to do on the RIK website when they're processed by the Statistics Office. No, get them right from the polling station, what you give the parties and what you send to the Commission, put it on the website. It's the only real condition. As for "The Bridge of Ada", don't make Vukic a lie, he spoke very differently about what Gilas stole.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65271	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65272	Let me read it, because I wasn't informed. The preparation and implementation of training shall be carried out by the working body for RIK training, in the text below, by the working body. So RIK determines. One more thing, self-instruction and training, a person who conducts training, does not mean that he has public authority that he can participate in the election process. Aman, the people in the election process can only be involved by the one allowed by law, no one else. Well, no one else. One more thing, she's never had a SNS since she existed. She hasn't had a majority on the election boards. Never, but never, in RIK, nor in election committees appointed by RIK, nor in election committees appointed by the Regional Election Commission, nor in local election committees. Always the former regime had a majority, and they always made up all sorts of reasons and affairs why they lost the election. Now they're blamed by their members of the election board. It's those working bodies. But forget people, only one who is allowed to participate in the election process, and the MPs are the ones who pass the laws. They bring neither CRTA nor CESID, nor anyone else, but the National Assembly. We're not told by the West what laws we're going to make. We are passing laws that are exclusively in favour of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. So forget about it. If anyone wants to help improve the election process, he's welcome. If someone came to interfere with the election process, there's no place for him to conduct the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65273	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65274	Bravo Arsic, just explain all this to you in RIK and Dejan Djurdjevic, who runs the whole business. And, please, what you're saying here is RIK's decision. Yes, but RIK is illegal. Do you understand what we're saying? He says – there is no participation in the election process of someone who instructs the election committees and gives them some paper that they have or haven't passed that exam. You can read as much as you want. I'm telling you this, we've been showing, we've been giving to the press, we're trying to stop you in this lawlessness. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a RIK decision by the government and ends up writing the signature of President RIK. When we made a fuss about it, they tried to say it wasn't. When I asked here as a parliamentary question, she asked the government of the Republic of Serbia, and said the government's act was signed by Nebojsa Stefanovic as vice president, and it was written on the other hand to sign the RIK president. Imagine, the insolence and insolence of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which answers that parliamentary question, says – the issue is not in the jurisdiction of the MUP. I didn't mention the M.O.P. You're really acting like there are no laws, like there's no Constitution. For you there is this national convention of the EU, for you there is this Kukan and that "Frankenstein", which I know, which all come to you to make you a hat. But, guys, you're breaking the laws, you're breaking the constitution, you're trying to get into the election process, and just here's what you're not, and I'm telling you a few hours is RIK because you need to explain some things. You can't have CRTA, CESID and the others, not to tell you what, to do all those agents, that they're coaching election committees along with RIK. I can't. A hundred times your majority in RIK can make that decision, it's illegal. Change the law if you want. You have 126 green buttons, you can change whatever you want, but until you change the law, you can't let people, you can't, you can't step on the roughest possible. Here, Minister, here's colleague Ruzic, tell me if I'm right, you're the minister who's partly in charge of that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65275	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65276	Let's get this straight, let's read everything from A to S, so let's let the citizens evaluate who's telling the truth here, who's making it up. The preparation and implementation of decisions shall be carried out by the working body for RIK training, in the following text - the working body. The working body, so I'm not talking about the persons who conduct the electoral procedure, but who do, we're training the person who will conduct the electoral procedure in accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. The working body has 19 members, eight of whom are members and deputy members of the RIK. Here, those faces we've placed both members and deputies. Two members of the National Assembly who perform professional tasks for the needs of the RIK. Here, as far as I know, those faces have been performing I think since 2002 or 2003 they've been working for RIK. Here, they haven't changed. So close to 20 years ago. Three of the employees of the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Is the Republic Bureau of Statistics a state authority? Yes, it is. Six out of a line of electoral leaders. So most of the structure is composed of members who have been delegated by state authorities who have been involved in the electoral process before. Let's get this over with. The training of observers, meaning as observers, can be attended by representatives of an association dealing with an election process in continuance of at least three years and representatives of international organisations dealing with elections, but only as observers. So is your OSCE watcher? Did he monitor our past choices and our priors and I don't know how far back? What are you against? What are you afraid of? We SNS aren't afraid of choices. Let's go to the election. We want to clean up the former regime. What, I want to bring here now, such a result and such support to the citizens that I should question because it's someone against the observers, not the people who conduct the elections, but the observers who look at the box and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65277	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65278	Of course none of this is true. It is the first part, but you're yelling at this argument for free, Arsic. The working body, first of all, is not an election authority. It's an auxiliary working body that only helps technically in the field in local self-government. How can two officials be members of a working body to conduct an instruction, how? You say you chose members of the RIK. That's right. You say these two officers work I don't know how much for RIK. So do they also work for the people's congregation, and do they vote? Do they participate in the debate? People, these are lawyers who are preparing RIK's documentation, who are doing a serious and important job at RIK, but they can't do what the RIK does. That, according to Arsic, the Secretary of Parliament could take a nice part in the debate and vote and not. Three people in statistics can't be members. One member of RIK is the director of Statistics, a member of RIK, and then RIK members can bring their moms, aunts and aunts to help them if they will call some of their employees. I can't, people. Six constituencies of the election process, eh, that's you. Six acquaintances, they're NGOs. Martinovic, don't turn your head. (Alexander Martinovic: These are professors of Law School. No, no, no. They're acquaintances. Even if they are professors of law school, no one but RIK can instruct, the party can, the parties can instruct as they please. Let them bring whoever they have to be instructed by their members, but that part of the state, the permanent composition, only RIK can instruct and no one else, especially someone else can give some kind of paper that confirms whether anyone can be or cannot be a member of the election board. He can't, and you do whatever you want. It wouldn't be the first time you've ever stepped on the Constitution, stepped on the law. Do whatever you want, but we won't stop talking about it in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65279	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65280	The Law on selecting Members of the People precisely defines what working bodies are to conduct the elections. There are no auxiliary working bodies. The working bodies for the implementation of elections under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs are RIK in a permanent and expanded composition and election committees in a permanent and expanded composition Read the Fine Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Don't make it up anymore. Who's gonna do the advisory work? The Republic Election Commission can do this, it can hire other persons, because they do not have enough to visit all of Serbia, for example. Technically, it's inconclusive. Don't make it up to the Republic of Serbia to give up its sovereignty in the electoral process. We do not give up our sovereignty, not a single step. Don't, if you're against someone, object to us why he's taking part as an observer. Let anyone who wants to be an observer participate. What are we afraid of? It's only against observers who fear the election results. We don't have that problem. So if you're afraid of the election results, attack the observers. We will not at any single moment bring about the legality and legitimacy of the results and the number of votes we win in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65281	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65282	After what I'm about to say, my colleague Arsic can do whatever he wants, I won't say another word, because I'm really shocked. It is amazing that counterpart Arsic says the working bodies for the conduct of the election are election committees and RIK. They're election bodies, ignorants. I really don't want any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65283	Okay. We continue in the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65284	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I would like first of all to commend the Agency's Employment Act, which is before us today in the principle debate, because the adoption of this bill will certainly regulate the area of employment through the agency, given that the employment agency has been present on the labour market for many years and that its operations have not been regulated so far. I will also point out that there are a number of reasons for the adoption of this bill. One of them is the harmonisation of the legal rules in the Republic of Serbia with international sources of law, and the next reason is also a very important step towards the EU accession process and respect for Chapter 19, as regards social policy, as well as employment policies. What I would certainly point out and most importantly when adopting this bill is to improve the position of all employees and employees currently with the agency, as well as employees who will be hired through the agency in the future. This bill gives absolutely equal rights and equal treatment of employees who conclude a contract of work indefinitely or a certain time with the agency, and also fully equalises rights on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the obligations of employees, both through the agency, in the same way and employees who have concluded a contract with the employer to whom they were rented. On the other hand, the bill will define precisely the conditions necessary for the Agency to meet its work permit. I would also point out that by September 2018, around 111 agencies were registered in our country, so the regulation of their work is of great importance, given this number. Also, since this issue has not been regulated so far and in practice we have come to various abuses of the rights of workers, in terms of abuse that they cannot use annual vacations, that they have no right to temporary prevention due to disease, as well as many other rights. Since the agency most often concluded a contract on temporary and occasional transactions, there was also the possibility of denying these rights that I have stated. There is information that about 2%, or about a hundred thousand people, are engaged through the agency through various contracts and make a fee, or profit based on a signed contract with the agency. This percentage is approximately equal to the percentage of agency employees in EU Member States. The aim of the bill is to improve the position of employees through agencies, so that employees will have the right to receive income compensation, as well as to have the same working time as other employees, the possibility of absentance, as well as the use of holidays, i.e. all labour rights, as well as employees directly employed by the employer. What is most important and what I would like to put an accent on is that the adoption of this bill will directly affect the reduction of the grey economy and also the establishment of order in the field of agency work and will lead to legal certainty, and directly affecting the labour market and this will certainly lead to an adequate material, social security and improvement of the standard of living of our citizens. Also, the adoption of this bill will put our country in line with the states in which this issue is regulated, and this is particularly important for all working people in our country, equal treatment for the people who are resigned, as well as direct employees. With these laws, all workers will enjoy absolutely the same rights, which is very important, and workers are protected twice. When an employer hires them through the agency, the employer pays compensation to the agency for these workers, the agency pays workers. If the agency fails to pay its dues, the employer is certainly obliged to pay the salary. Whoever is employed permanently, or indefinitely at the agency, enjoys all the rights of the agency. So the agency needs to pay and compensation for sick leave, regress, as well as pay. Through the agencies we have information that the most frequently hired construction workers, agricultural workers, and in practice is often the engagement of programmers. For construction workers, it is quite logical why they are most often hired, because the need for builders is almost 365 days a year and it is certainly the interest of the agency to employ such workers indefinitely. When it comes to workers in public enterprises and units of local self-government, I would take the opportunity to commend a responsible SNS work, headed by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I would remind citizens that in October of the month, by adopting budget rebalancing, we provided a surplus in the 46.6 billion dinar budget that allowed us to raise salaries in the public sector ranging from 8% to 15% and that this increase also included workers employed in local self-government units. The stable finances of the state are certainly a condition for increasing wages, and on a stable and sustainable basis. Apart from the roads, which we are building, and the new jobs that we are opening, it is also very important to increase workers' salaries, which will certainly lead to an increase in living standards. I would also take the opportunity to remind myself that since 1 January 2020, the minimum earnings will be increased by 11.1%). Instead of 27,022 dinars, it will be 30,022 dinars. Also, what's most important is that the unemployment rate is at a record low percentage. Since it's been measured since 1991, it's been at a historic minimum at a single digit percent, of 9.5%. We will, of course, continue to seek to reduce the percentage of the unemployed by new investments, and thanks to the set of tax laws and tax exemptions, we are certainly directly affecting easier employment and increasing the number of employees, i.e. the reduction of the number of unemployed. In the voting day, I will certainly support the laws that are in the principle debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65285	Thank you, colleague. The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65286	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, I will refer to my colleagues and, among other things, I will comment on this proposal for a law on agency employment, given that it concerns a large number of people who are employed through the agency and that they look forward to hearing more about this law here in the National Assembly today. This legal framework is introduced to regulate the issue of temporary employment agencies themselves that exist in practice, and not covered by the regulations governing the field of work. In fact, agency workers are actually employed, i.e. they form a working relationship with the agency for temporary employment in order to comply with the temporary work of the employer. This law lays down the conditions under which agency workers receive equal treatment in respect of the exercise of labour rights and on the basis of work, more specifically in respect of earnings, working hours, absences from work, rest, safety and health at work and other conditions applicable to employees employed by the employer, whose mandate and instructions are for agency employees. According to the Ministry of Labour, as of September 2018, 111 employment agencies were registered in Serbia. These agencies carry out employment interventions and other jobs in accordance with the Employment and Insurance Act. Employment agencies shall conclude work contracts for a specified period of time or contracts for temporary and occasional transactions with certain persons and for the purposes of working with other legal entities and entrepreneurs. Thus, the persons involved do not have adequate rights stemming from working relationships, so this bill addresses very important issues for employees through agencies. First of all, the right to health and pension insurance, the right to paid vacation and paid sick leave. The net earnings, which in these employees in as many as 45% of cases was lower than 25,000 dinars, will in future have to be equalized with other employees' earnings under the same qualification. From now on, agencies will be able to give in to employers only employed with whom they have established a working relationship for an indefinite or fixed period of time, which will undoubtedly contribute to an increase in the number of contracts concluded. The material situation of agency workers will improve significantly and not only by increasing their net incomes, but also by providing health and pension insurance, as well as any other rights that employees draw from employment. The work on black will be reduced, unfair competition between the agencies will be abolished, but it is certainly the most important that employees through agencies will be equated with employees of the employer who have been granted labour status. I thank the ministry for its work and recognition of this problem, as well as for the legal solutions offered. The adoption of this law is conditioned by the adoption of a sublaw that the ministry is due to pass within two months of the adoption of this law, and I wish them a successful implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65287	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65288	The respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, respected fellow MPs, I am sure everyone is aware that citizens have just made a decision on who will lead them and who will represent them in the National Assembly. They will be led by Aleksandar Vukic, represented by the MPs, and those who receive the support of the MPs will work in the ministries. Accordingly, ministers are here to be at the service of citizens and the laws proposed by the ministry, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, which come for consideration in the National Assembly, to come to the people who are here because they wanted Serbian citizens to do so. This law, as one of the laws which, of course, continues the continuity of the adoption of laws that are in the interests of Serbian citizens, is repeated from session to session, from law to law, but is not only the interest of citizens here, but it is here that the interest of the state is to be abolished, not that there is no work on black, it will no longer be gray, we will go to work on the white of all people who work, on any basis they must be employed, they must have health care, they must be paid appropriately and it must be foreseen and defined by law. Payments and their amount are clearly defined by law, but the announcement of an increase in wages in the public sector which we are also considering is good, it is necessary and, of course, is again in line with the needs and the situation on the ground, so the wage range in the public sector, which will be increased, from 7% to 15% and the largest amount of these 15% will be obtained by healthcare professionals, nurses and doctors, which is, of course, for every praise and which shows that the problems are recognised, but that they are also resolved according to the law. There are certainly some mayors in other cities, some of the presidents of municipalities that do not comply with the law, but fortunately the citizens are very few and there will be fewer and fewer. We expect support from the next elections for those who have done well and those who have worked in the citizens' interest. In Serbia today, it is said that the worker is more, a worker of all possible professions and all possible qualifications. It wasn't an opportunity and, believe me, you know, it's the exact fact that single-digit unemployment is. This depicts the current picture, with this single-digit unemployment as a result of serious, committed and fundamental work in different segments. It's not the product of one decision, one law. It's a set of laws that, of course, follow the budget from year to year. I will remind you, just a few days ago, we adopted the 2020 budget, of course, in November and again in line with the needs of citizens, on the one hand, but also the state, on the other hand. In Capac, unfortunately, in the city where I live, I come from the city administration where anything is possible and where everything can be like a fair in Capca. In the city administration, it can happen that the mayor embezzled fivem euros in 2015, and in 2019 he continued to call and call for honesty and threaten the president of Serbia and call the ministers and do all that is not in the interest of the citizens of Sapco, or the citizens of Serbia. It is precisely in this town that a health care worker, 23 employees in the water line, could happen because they did not want to raise votes for Dusan Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas, to be out of work, to keep the doctors out of work for reasons that they would not raise votes for it, they are no longer in bankruptcy, the yellow company. They couldn't stay in bankruptcy either. The other night, they don't know what they're called, or what their party's name is, or what strangers they belong to. It is good for the citizens of Zapca to see that the citizens of Zapca know that there are other ways, that there are also people who can do something good for the citizens, but also for the state itself. No good worker will be fired, no good worker will change. What matters and what everyone knows is that commitment and loyalty, above all, is a commitment to a company where someone does exactly what makes a difference. I am sure that in recent history we have never had a president who has been so dedicated and who has been so loyal to both the citizens and the state of Serbia. In line with that, everyone who thinks well of their citizens, everyone who thinks well of this country, of course, in the voting day will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65289	I thank my colleague Birmanchevic. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65290	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are in this high house discussing in principle a set of laws relating to salaries of public agencies, public sector and local self-government. A good development budget, as well as the abolition of the employment ban, announced by Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in this high house during the debate on the budget, are two basic parameters for the application of these laws. The proposed amendments to those laws redefine deadlines due to the specificity of each part of the public sector, which must be analysed and monitored in order for the laws to be fully applicable, and I would add to this the adoption of sublaws in time. For the successful work of each local self-government, a good team and an objective picture of the level of development, as well as concrete recommendations, is needed. There is a strong link between good governance and development, because good governance is a prerequisite for development. It is therefore important for public sector employees to be well paid, to be well rewarded for their work, to be constantly trained in the public sector and in local self-governments, to train employees, how to apply local self-government to projects through various European and international funds. The experiences of countries that were in the pre-accession phase of the EU can be of particular importance for the application of this law. The debate on this set of laws is also an opportunity to highlight the importance of the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, I mean the 2030 Agenda, of the local one. Transparency in the work as well as the suppression of the gray economy is also important. In order to curb the gray economy, I consider this set of laws, which we are discussing today, and which by the end of the week, hopefully, will be crucial. It is very important that the set of these laws balances the status of workers who are on temporary part-time jobs with other workers who are employed at a specified time and who are in a permanent working relationship whether they are employed through an agency or employers. Particular attention should also be paid to the control of workers abroad, our workers employed abroad. I believe that one of these laws will especially be important because we had problems in the previous period. Of course, for the application of these laws, besides economic stability, internal political stability is also important. However, the aggressive action of one part of the opposition, which has been boycotting the work of this high home for a year, then the imaginary affairs for which they have no evidence, the cover of the NIN Weekly, the daily newspaper "Today" certainly do not contribute. Drawing a target on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's chest is certainly not media freedom and that in the country where the prime minister was killed in 2003 poses a special danger. The front page of all newspapers is always well planned and always has a certain message, but it cannot be a substitute for restoring citizens' trust in people who are in opposition, in the part of the opposition and who are planning to be government, and it is also a big problem that the exact same matrix used in 2003 was used when Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed. The target on the chest is being drawn, the president's family is being criminalized, and that's not good. Of course, it is the right of the opposition to protest, to criticise, to propose, but certainly not the right of the opposition to make a link, a hickey and thus create future scenarios from Serbia, trying to create future scenarios that have been in some countries. In voting day, I will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65291	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65292	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, there is no doubt that we will support the draft laws that are on the agenda today because you are our choice and you are enjoying our support and the common goal is to change this country for as much as possible in areas where possible. It's not easy to reconstruct the state administration, local self-government. This has proved to be a very difficult job and unfortunately does not follow the industrialization of the employment of people and the progress we have in society. The authorities were changing. Some have left catastrophic consequences that we cannot remove today or we can slowly remove them by natural means as people retire, because it is about living people who have been brought in and who have been admitted for good and anyone who comes into a ministry, the head of some municipalities finds a huge number of people who are being made available to him, who are working against him at the same time. It's very difficult in those conditions to work. Second, the existence of a large number of parties, and if you touch someone, they say, "Don't do this one of ours, and then others react and say, "Don't do this one of ours." We have an obligation, and you're working on it to arrange government and local self-government, to bring it down, to measure how it suits this country and how the country's budget can handle it. As for the pay grade, there's a lot of that anomaly. I wouldn't talk about paying classes, but about rewarding because you all know it and it's completely absurd that the people who are, and it's already said here, we appoint have two, three, four, five times the salary of the president of the state. We can regulate that. We can remove it. For a time, I was head of the county. For example, the head of the district had 10,000 lower salaries than the head of general affairs. You wouldn't know that if the Chief of General Affairs hadn't pointed that out to me. A remarkable man, a lawyer who noticed it as an anomaly. So you're in the ministry, you see what's missing and what you can change and change it, please. You have our support to change that. As far as employment is concerned, let me just say very briefly, in this process of industrialization, bringing investors, bringing labour, they played a significant role, because investors who have such an industry that our education, not because it is bad, but because it is not directed, could not follow. We practically had to look for workers in all factories and train them at the site, or at the factory to do the job in order to normally achieve the productivity required of them, because they came from high school, from technical school, from food school, from all schools that we have, from colleges. The employment service in those conditions played a significant role. I believe that these agencies will also contribute to relaxing where it is needed and that whoever runs this country and who is the engine of our development, we follow in an adequate way. Alexander Vukic can't drag us all on his back, we have to work, we have to contribute, we have to follow him in his efforts to put this country in its place. Just one more word about those who don't sit here and who get paid on a regular basis. I can't understand these people for a long time, I won't even talk about how long I've been involved in election processes, sometimes because I'm forced to do so, and sometimes because regular elections come, and if I want to do this job, I can't wait for the election to come. They want to boycott the election, and the opposition are, and they're looking for other ways to come to power. Please, people, put out a program, bring out one solution to the problems in this country that we have, how do we solve something, I haven't heard a single solution from those who don't want elections to come to power. Therefore, the SNS, which in difficult conditions leads such a policy to take the country on the right path, to modernise it, to put it at the level of medium-developed countries, will certainly record an impressive result in next year's elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65293	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65294	Dear chairman, imported ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow this assembly debate, at first I would just like to remind, as we know, that in the last week of November we adopted a budget in the legal term, a budget that showed that Serbia is on the right and stable path of economic development, a budget that is developmental, which implies an increase in wages in the public sector, which has large investments. I am that budget to be realised, implemented to that end, followed by these laws that we are considering at these two united points. The first united point in principle was a set of tax laws that now need to enable a better environment, better implementation and implementation of the budget, and all in order, of course, to further and better economic development and improve the living standards of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The second point united, colleagues said, implies three amendments and the addition of three public sector wages laws, public agencies and local self-government. For the sake of citizens to say, these are changes relating to the shift of the date, the application of these laws to 2021, which is quite logical, because it is necessary to further improve and create better economic legal conditions in order to properly implement these laws, as popularly said, on payment classes. In this second point, they already mentioned colleagues in the previous discussion, we have the Agency Employment Act, which is a system law, a new law that has never existed before. For the sake of citizens, state several reasons for the need to pass this law. First, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Confirmation of the Convention and International Labour Organisation No. 181 on private employment agencies. So, by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to arrange work through private employment agencies, i.e. for the employment of workers with the aim of making themselves available to a third party, which can be either a natural or a legal person. The other thing, the important thing, is that in this Labour Act, there is no and is not defined at all the relationship between the employer and the employer and the employment of the worker. In practice, the Labour Act does not regulate employment for the purpose of remuneration of employees, other entities, or consumer enterprises. The only form of working engagement for the purpose of giving in to other employers in domestic legislation is working on temporary and occasional jobs through youth and student cooperatives, meaning the only one. The third thing that has enabled these employment agencies to be formed so far is the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. On the basis of this law, the conditions for the establishment and operation of the Employment Agency were also regulated and we practically did not have the right legislation in this area. Due to the lack of this legal regulation, there have been many forms of violations of constitutional and legal rights from work, social security, so that there is also a black-based area. The passing of this law achieves more, of course, good effects and marks the right way to resolve this problem. First, this law will have a positive impact on the labour market in terms of reducing unemployment. I'm sure it'll lead to an increase in the labor contract. It will contribute to improving the material and social security of rental workers. It will also lead to the abolition of unfair competition between the agency and the employer and will contribute to the greater competitiveness of the agencies themselves. Practically, this Agency Employment Act provides for maximum protection for those employed through the agency, all of which will have an impact and contribute to reducing work to black. Practically, agency employees will be provided with equal earnings and other basic working conditions such as working hours, safety breaks, health at work and other working conditions applied to employees directly employed by the employer. All of this will affect the reduction of work on black, the reduction of the gray economy. So, this system law leads to legal, clear regulation in this area, which will manifest the safety of employees. In voting day, I will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65295	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65296	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, I will talk today about the proposal for a law on agency employment. Before I begin to explain this law, I really, as a woman, as a Member, do not know how to define myself, as someone who has great respect for this country, and above all for the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, cannot look back at the morbid front page, primarily the first front page in the NIN, directly sniper in Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dodik, the next day empty side, and then on November 2nd direct target of the lungs, means also sniper, Mr. Vukic meta today, as "Today" newspaper, which is sold in 15 copies, but well, Mr. Vukic again target, and that eight targets on it. It's embarrassing and scary. This can only be done by a sick mind. People, says Mr. editor-in-chief Draža Petrovic – this is a metaphor, not a target. What metaphor? The metaphor is a reduced comparison. This is not a shortened comparison, this is a target, this is a lynch, this is a call to murder. Are you people normal? In the 21st century. Well, you do some other things. You want to sell the circulation, put whatever you want, draw us in the worst possible edition. We're sandwichers, we're toothless, we're lepers, we're beautiful, who knows who we are. Draw us like that, but don't put a target on our foreheads, don't put a target on us. You remember the 1999 bombing, we were all targets. Is that supposed to happen? What's supposed to happen here? Civil war? God forbid. Come to mind, not all people in Serbia are normal, someone's gonna see this, so they're gonna do it, God forbid. They killed the prime minister. What do you need now? They're Satanizing the president in every way they can. They create public opinion. His father's not his father, his brother's the boss of the mob. Shame on them. The greatest gentleman I've ever met. It's drug trafficking, arms smuggling, one affair generating another. Is that the point? Well, well, do it. People called me, so I answered again. I was talking about this the other day and I'm gonna do it again and again until these pictures go away. Draw us anyway. Let's be scrawny, headless, noseless, but don't draw targets. This is an invitation to the lynch. Dot. I don't care, people get scared when they see something like this. I don't know why you're throwing it away. Look at eight targets on the president. Is that normal? No, it's sick, I find this morbid, it's scrawny. It's not pleasant, it's embarrassing, and they're afraid of people. What do I expect when there's a target on the president? As far as the law goes, the law is good because it will finally solve the gray economy. What does that mean? This means that the agency, which is currently 111 in Serbia, I think, is a small country for 111 agencies. They should exist, of course, but to regulate the law as one agency can look. So it's taxing to list what it takes to satisfy and what the agency's conditions to exist. First of all, that the man who runs that agency should be college-educated. Then, that there is a business space and so on, until all the taxed conditions are met, and then that the ministry gives permission to open such an agency. When the agency opened, since there were a lot of complaints about the agencies, polls were done and the crowds were declared by having a salary of 25,000 dinars. This is not enough, but even below the basic minimum, a minimum of 30,022 dinar goes from January 1st. So no one can have a salary of 25,000 dinars. What are we actually doing with these agencies? There will be no longer temporary and occasional jobs, but we are introducing a work contract, so that quality, i.e. working conditions for these employees will be improved. How? By having all the rights as people who are constantly employed. By being able to borrow, by having an annual vacation, by having all the benefits as one who works at a state firm or anywhere, who has a job contract. That's good. That's how it works. Otherwise, if someone says this isn't good, it's good. They were public hearings, the general public could get acquainted with this law and anyone who wanted to give an opinion could, it was about a month, and everyone could plead. The public debate was in Belgrade, also in Nis, Novi Sad, but also in Kragujevac and Novi Pazar. So, minors complete Serbia. In Belgrade alone, there were 90 interested persons, among other things the leading company, huge. So, Delta Holding, but also NIS, Hemofarm, Lidl, Last Corporation, as well as Citizens' Protector, American Chamber of Commerce, Attorney's Office. So that's how wide the diapazone is. Anyone who wanted to could have said their opinion, and that's why we're talking about this law today. What else is there to point out? That we will encourage employment in less developed regions. Well, that's good, that's what we're talking about. The 2011-2020 strategy is about employment in local self-government. How did we get to that? So Serbia today is a factor of stability in the region, so it's a good place to invest, by hiring over 300,000 people, by reducing unemployment from 27% in 2008 to a historic minimum of 9.5%. That's how it works. I would never want to see what I saw again today. It never happened again. In voting day, I will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65297	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miljan Ljubic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65298	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, proposed amendments to the proposed laws redefine deadlines were conditioned by the need to move on to a new wage system. All employees must have health insurance and be adequately paid. The fight against the gray economy is also important. Financial profitability and sustainability are essential, and financial stability is not affected. By establishing fiscal and macroeconomic stability, we also have a development budget for 2020. The goal is to improve the quality of life and increase the number of employees. We are witnessing what the Alliance for Serbia does daily, after attempting to violently enter the Serbian Radio-Television building, attempts to limit freedom to the president, to the MPs and to a number of incidents. They came to the front page of the NIN and the daily "Today" photo with a clearly pointed gun on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and with a draft target continue the media campaign against him. What kind of message are they sending? Creating the atmosphere in which they are allowed. The ideas of hate and violence haven't done anyone any good. If such a message is sent to the president of the state, then what can others expect? Serbia today is a country of cranes and construction sites where numerous capital facilities are built in all areas of life, from new highways to new hospitals and schools. Obviously that doesn't suit them. They're bothered by more employees, more salaries for all citizens, those who want to come to power without a choice, they're bothering those who haven't done anything and left nothing behind. That's why they're using these methods of spinning and lying, and they obviously want us back when they were in power, when they devastated Serbia. They're abandoned by young people, their boards are torn apart, and their party is divided. This reflects the impotence of the policy they are leading and therefore they do not have support in the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65299	The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65300	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Associates, we have before us a set of laws that define finance issues and, of course, are closely linked to the budget that we adopted the other day and which is the basis and basic platform for further adoption of the law in the area of finance. I must reiterate that in early October we adopted the first time in history a positive budget rebalance, where we increased wages, increased pensions and increased the amount of money for capital investments. After that, we adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the first time in November which is developmental and in the interest of Serbian citizens. By this policy, we became the economic, political and military leader in the region, and Aleksandar Vukic is one of the most successful and respected leaders in Europe. This is exactly how Serbia's progress and success in all fields began to disturb many, those who do not want Serbia well. What I'm talking about has been particularly escalating in the last few days on the front pages of the "NIN" and the "Today" list where we have a publicly and openly directed sniper at Alexander Vukic, which is an attempt to destabilise the country, an invitation to a public lynching and a call to the murder of Alexander Vukic. In addition, we have constant attacks on his family, on his daughter, remember that she was followed by a constant attempt to criminalise her son, brother, and all over the media controlled by those in the Alliance for Serbia. That is why the scandalous and very dangerous statements made in the last few days by Nebojsa Zelenovic and I quote: "Alexandar Vukic has given a warrant to paid journalists to go witch hunting" and now pay particular attention to this detail "to drawing targets on the foreheads of the unsuitable, that verbal violence will turn into physical terror and that it will escalate a crisis that cannot be controlled". Here is really enough, I ask Nebojsa Zelenovic to explain, since she swears on democracy and honesty, how is it that the town of Sabac, namely Nebojsa Zelenović, is financed from the budget by just "NIN" and "Today" only in 2019, for "Nin" close to a million dinars, and for "Today" close to two million dinars. That's what we managed to find out. Since "NIN" and "Today" are otherwise so circulation and read newspapers, it shoots from the circulation, there is a suspicion that Nebojsa Zelenović is funding almost the largest part of the annual circulation "NIN" and "Today", and therefore there is a suspicion that she is also participating in the editorial policy "NIN" and "Today" and "Today" and there is a basis for doubt, so I ask him questions – did he participate in creating the headlines of the newspaper "NIN" and "Today" on which Alexander Vukic is located? Also, the city administration of the town of Šapca is greatly praised for controlling, and you assume how Tatjan Vojtehovska, who they say is a frequent guest in the Sabbath cafes and together with the city government, plans to continue attacking Aleksandr Vukic. And on the question of who controls Nebojsa Zelenovic, the best we saw was the other night from the D.S. City Committee, Dragan Djilas first entered, and then on a hike after him and Nebojsa Zelenovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65301	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65302	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the urgency of the Agency Employment Bill is that workers working through the Employment Agency, i.e. on the lease, future allow for the same working conditions, as well as the labour contract, as do employers' employees. Today, these workers were able to be engaged through a contract on temporary and occasional jobs that did not allow them to exercise their right to sick leave, vacation, overtime, work on a state holiday and so on. This law changes the situation. Some 100,000 workers are believed to have that status today. The grey economy is certainly the challenge our government faces today, but it is certainly an encouraging fact that the size of the grey economy has fallen in the previous five years, among the registered economy from 21.2% to 15.4% of GDP. Studies on the assessment of even a small grey economy developed by the Fund for the Development of Economic Science in 2013 showed that the level of the grey economy was moving up to 30% of GDP in 2012. When traffic of goods and services was lost by around 10 billion euros, the budget was cut by about three billion euros, which meant that each citizen was denied an average salary on an annual basis. So much for how much the yellow robbery company has taken care of the budget and the standard of citizens, but its pockets have gone to great lengths. Therefore, in 2017 and 2018, our Government has declared the years of combating the grey economy, which has led to the implementation of the measures and activities of the national programme to combat the grey economy and four key directions; to improve the efficiency of inspection supervision, to introduce incentives for legal business, to reduce bureaucracy and to strengthen tax culture. In doing so, all the factors of society must have a common goal and a task, which is to curb the gray economy. So far, workers through the agency have not been visible in the labour-legal system. The adoption of this law will improve the working conditions of workers employed through the agency by equating basic conditions and security in working with employees of the employer, in particular with regard to increasing earnings. So today we can talk about the average salary of 500 euros, which for bags of the yellow company was unimaginable as well as the unemployment rate below 10% today. For all these results, we owe it to our President Alexander Vukic and our Government, and, of course, in the voting day, I will support this set of laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65303	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65304	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of this debate, I would like to refer to the fact that just a few days ago we adopted the development budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, and just before that, the budget rebalance. For the first time, a positive rebalancing that allowed public sector employees to have increased salaries ranging from 8% to 15%, that our oldest citizens, pensioners, receive single aid from 5,000 dinars, but also an increase of 5.4%, but we thought that certain funds were defined for capital investments. In the previous period, we showed that after a successful fiscal consolidation, Serbia has become a healthy, orderly and modern state and that we are moving forward. What we were afraid of during the two thousand-year robbery is whether or not we're going to get paid, now that's not the case. Serbian citizens now know that they live in a stable and healthy Serbia, and this also shows us this development budget that we adopted over the past few days. What I'm saying is that those who don't have a political programme, those who can't give citizens answers to what they did by 2012, are today attacking the president of the Republic, the legitimately elected president, putting a target on him. They can't say anything else but forgive them God, they don't know what they're doing, but certainly Serbia is competent against this bloody scenario called by Gilas' mercenaries, all through certain television stations and some printed media. What I would add is that in the country where the prime minister was killed in 2003, this really doesn't lead to anything, and I'm really glad that she managed to respond to decent Serbia and that, at yesterday's meeting in Nis, a large group of competent citizens gathered to condemn the behaviour of Gilas and Boskov followers. Despite all the provocations, Serbia is progressing. Our President, Mr. Vukic, does not mind such attacks because Serbia is first in line with it every day, showing it, opening new factories, new roads, and already on December 18th with a message that they should do their job, it will open up a new path for Obrenovac – Surcin. What I would add to this occasion is that in the coming week, the signing of a contract on the construction of the Moravia Corridor, one of the most significant traffic stations that will connect south and west, then central Serbia, as well as Corridors 10 and 11. The meaning of this Corridor has been spoken in previous sessions and I would really not repeat it this time, because by joining this Corridor on the move from Pojat to Cačka, where more than 21,000 businesses are housed, I think it's too much to say anything. It's a space for new investments, new jobs, which is the most important thing for our citizens. Given that we are also talking today about the Agency Employment Act, and when it comes to investors, a large number of workers are employed by this very agency employment. It is very important that their rights are regulated in this way, so they will have equal earnings and other basic working conditions, working hours, absence from work, rest and safety and health at work. That's exactly how they'll be tied up with those workers who are hired directly by the employer. On this occasion, I would add that in the voting day, we will support this set of good laws, because in the past few years we have shown that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing both responsible and domestically, and that we have proven through all these increases in earnings in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65305	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65306	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The existing Labour Act does not recognise agency employment, but deals exclusively with regulating the employment status between the employer and the employee. Although the Labour Act does not regulate the fact that agency employment exists for many years in Serbia, it is also necessary to regulate this type of working relationship. There are many reasons why we have such a need, we want to start with our legislation and we want to comply with the conventions adopted by the international organisation of work, to prevent the gray economy, but to prevent numerous abuses and exploitation of employees, because there are also examples of inequality, discrimination and unfair competition. Namely, it's about the next one. An employer who needs a workforce, and not for temporary and occasional jobs, but also for operations that are carried out continuously in the course of his activity, closes a contract with the agency and arranges compensation per employee to be provided to him by the agency. The agency hires workers, but these workers only get minimum income, so that both agencies and employers are income. The employer gets cheap labour and cheaper than the one I hires, and the agency keeps the commission. One who works very often and overtime, means worker, only earns minimum wage. There are also frequent cases that both employer and agency workers do the same job in the same working conditions, and that the difference in earnings and incomes is multiple in favour of workers who are constantly employed by the employer. This is so, although the Labour Act prescribes that employees must be paid for the same job. That is why, because of the irregularities and abuses caused by agency workers, authorities have repeatedly failed to respond on time and in the right way. By passing this law, the abuses mentioned are put on the road, so agency workers will also have the same rights and conditions to work with the employer as well as equal earnings, as well as workers who are directly in a contractual relationship with the employer. In addition, the adoption of this law will contribute to and protect and improve the working conditions of employees through the agency, better conditions for safety of work and health at work, and the application of this law will contribute to curbing the grey economy, i.e. reducing work to black. Agency workers will have the same income as workers constantly employed by the employer will no longer come to this work on black, or will be aware of the least possible measure. In addition, agency workers, as they will have a level playing field, will increase living standards and reduce poverty rates. In the end, I would like to condemn the drawing of a target at the head of the Serbian president and the aim of a gun, as a monstrous act and call on all state authorities, but also journalists' associations to respond to such sick manifestations of Gilas and his peytos. Indeed, this is the kind of creepy hatred any normal man will condemn. The target on the president's chest is essentially a target in each and every one of us, and we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65307	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65308	Thank you, Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. When I looked at the agenda for this seventh session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I just wanted to discuss the draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Someone might think what there is to discuss. Three members have been amended in each of the members of the law, an amended year when deadlines are to be redefine, starting with the application of system and specific wage laws in individual parts of the public sector. Now, that's exactly what I want to discuss and to point out that we have come into the situation to change the law for just a year, everything else goes to the best possible course, and all thanks to the great, above all, knowledge, then work, energy and sacrifice of President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How much only President Vukic was attacked in previous years, challenged by various newspapers, shows, forums and social networks, the worst possible commentary by Djilasovic, who destroyed Serbia, which thanks to them was living mud and ready to disappear. How much they laughed and commented that it was not a realistic promise from our president that the average salary in 2019 would be over 500 euros. And here is the promise that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic made to the citizens of Serbia on the level of the average salary. I have to point out that real profit growth in the first half of the year was 7.3%, and most importantly, it is primarily driven by growth in the private sector. The budget's rebalance was also defined as an increase in public sector wages between 8% and 15%, so wage growth in the public sector will affect the average salary in Serbia by the end of the year, at over 500 euros in December. In our budget, the surplus and budget rebalance has been directed towards higher capital investments, and it is precisely towards increasing public sector wages, as well as paying for one-time pensioners' aid it is difficult to guess where this money would have ended if others had directed it, it is not safe. The tough ones are behind us, and that's why we now have money to invest in health care, education, infrastructure in raising living standards. Slowly but surely we are going towards a better life and we can finally say that Serbia is on the right and stable path to economic development. In addition, the fact that we adopted the Republic budget in November, so long before the deadline, which has not happened years ago. President Aleksandar Vukic, with ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, knew how to choose not to be in debt and not taking expensive loans, and most importantly, not jeopardising macroeconomic stability to make citizens feel better. Such bill proposals are something that Serbian citizens look forward to and therefore the SNS will vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65309	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65310	Thank you. Dear government representatives, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are considering following the law of the Serbian budget, five draft laws amending system wage laws. Serbia's assembly adopted a 2020 budget envisioning revenue of 1,314 billion dinars, expenditures of 1,334 billion dinars, and the deficit will amount to 20 billion dinars and 0.3% of GDP, respectively. The budget is planned on the basis of an estimate that GDP growth will be 4% in 2020 and inflation will be 2%. The biggest contribution of GDP growth in the third quarter of 2019 was construction, 39.9% compared to 2018. This economic boom that Serbia experienced thanks to government and President Aleksandar Vukic, risky reforms, huge work, investment, wage cuts, income cuts, employment bans and the rationalisation of the number of public sector employees, are the measures that have contributed to reducing expenditures and the success of fiscal consolidation so far. Among these accompanying laws of the Serbian budget, I will say something about the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous provinces of local self-government units. This Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Officials and Peasants in the Authorities of the Province and the Local Self-Government is contained in the provisions of our Constitution, in Article. In 97th and 17th, according to which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of working relations and other relationships of interest for the Republic of Serbia. The reason for the adoption of this law should be to redefine the deadlines from which the application to the provisions of the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the authorities of the provinces and units of local self-government, in accordance with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Amendments to the law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government provide conditions for full professionalisation and depolitisation of the province's personnel and units of local self-government and introduce the principles of work that allow transactions in the competence of the AP and local self-government units to be carried out professionally and legally. Given that salaries of AP employees and local self-government units are regulated by a number of regulations of different legal forces, so that we do not have a single basis for calculating and paying employees' salaries, this Law should address the lack of effective control, management problem, ie transparency and injustice beyond the existence of such a situation. The objectives set by the Public Sector Payments System Act should be followed. We have four members in this law that are changing -- Article 32, we're changing it with Article 1. Article 32. The pay law is governed by the way in which the basis is determined when moving to a new pay system for 2021. Article 2 is amended as follows: The salary law, i.e. provisions on the award of officials to a higher coefficient, are laid down to apply from 2022, based on the estimates made from 2020 and 2021. Article 42 shall be amended as a third member. The bill of wages, redefining the deadlines from which the law begins to apply to that member. And fourthly, Article 4 regulates the entry into force of this law. Since 1 January, this law applies in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65311	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65312	Dear Chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a new set of laws, and I will refer to the proposal for a law on agency employment. This law regulates the rights and obligations of employees who conclude a contract with the agency for temporary employment in order to enter the temporary work of the employer. The current Labour Act did not provide for such employment, so the Labour Act only knows the contract between the employer and the employee. By applying this proposed law, we will respect both international standards and the international organisation of work. A clear detail of the agency's work is being arranged to protect all employees, labour law, collective contract. With this law, the agency concluded a contract with the employer on the remuneration of workers, and the worker also concluded a contract with the agency. The contracts provide for the right to vacation, the right to rest during the day, the right to accommodation and food, as well as the right to transport. By passing this law, all interested parties enter into the fight against the gray economy and forms of working on black, and what is most important, ceases discrimination against all workers who have so far worked on black and exploited by employers. What's also good, there's healthy competition, agencies that deal with the remuneration of workers, and then workers opt for a better agency. This law is the new system law, which will find its most applied to seasonal workers and what is most important, will affect poverty reduction. The struggle of our President Alexander Vukic, our Government and the SNS is that poverty be eradicated as soon as possible and that the standard of living of our citizens is getting better every day. This law will affect the labour market and the overall movement of labour, as well as the elimination of unfair competition. The law also allows trade unions to organise employees, as well as collective bargaining, with the possibility of electing negotiators on behalf of all and with the agency, due to the specificity of the way in which they are employed. The law also provides for the inspectorate to exercise control over compliance with the law, apply the applicable rules in the work of the agency and in relation to the employer to workers hired through the agency. Today, when the unemployment rate is 9.5 compared to 2012 when it was almost 26%, such employment through the agency will also affect the reduction of unemployment rates. Finally, I would like to stress that this law provides a legal basis, which will protect every employee through the agency, and by adopting this law, its application will have on the whole territory of Serbia, and most often in smaller regions of our country, where we have the most frequent employment of seasonal workers. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65313	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65314	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs have mostly said everything today about these laws, and in the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, what is most important, only in two sentences -- it is necessary to redefine the deadlines of which the system and specific laws on salaries in certain parts of the public sector begin. And that's what it's all about. Therefore, by 1 January 2021, laws governing salaries of government officials, police officers, professional members of Serbia's military, autonomous provinces and local self-government will be harmonised. If I didn't bother you very much, colleagues and colleagues would say that, but it would be good if we put on the agenda a little bit of a pay question from the MPs so that we don't get people's MPs who haven't been in the O.R. here for two years, and they get paid and work elsewhere. One of these is the majority doctor, Žarko Korač. You probably don't even remember that he's a respected MP, and here he is on TV every night mudsling both the state and the president and the MPs, etc. There's as many as you want. You see, they're empty benches. Speaking of which, one of them is Dr. Ivić Raskovic Sanda. Imagine, this woman, believe it or not, if you followed, has been muddying the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people for years. Latestly, she is bothered by the visit of the President of Belarus, Lukashenko, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and tomorrow to address it to the Members of the People. Can you imagine what she said? He says, quotes: "A clear mockery of parliamentaryism and democracy". She said so yesterday in a list, in the "Today" tabloid, etc. Can you believe, honourable MPs, that this is what Dr. Science says, and knows that Lukashenko and Belarus have never been against Serbia, especially Lukashenko. That bothers Mrs. Raskovic that they were not against Serbia, because she repeatedly, with her boss Jeremic, insults the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Do you remember her statement about Srebrenica that I quote "desio genocide" and that "Storm" was "humanitarian action"? This is for genocide in Srebrenica, not a single Western, of the 60 investigators and historians who did research, he did not claim. Not one. Once again, I recommend that she read three books by Professor Vojislav Seselj, especially this first one, so she'll see what's going on. She's 5.11. In 2018, imagine, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when President Vukic's announcement by Russian Federation President Vladimir Vladimir Putin said, here in this high house, I quote: "It's a lie, there's nothing of it," the quote concluded. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that President Aleksandar Vukic was decorated by the Order of Alexander Nevski and that before him was the only one who had received Nikola Pasic and Knjaz Milos. She does not have any morals, not parliamentary, but human, to come to this tall House to apologize, not to us, but to the Russian Federation, Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin and what is most important, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia in general. Dear citizens, what about them? Here, look what's going on with DS. When I said in this high house that Dragan Lutovac called "the stray" destroyed DS, he also killed democracy yesterday. You saw in your party, because Dragan Gilas in every way possible through Zoran Lutovac is trying to control even the DS that he has destroyed in his time. It's nowhere in the world. So you see what this is about. Last night, please, in "The Imprint of the Week" at Olje Bećkovic, do you know what Mališić journalist said? She shocked those who watched. She shocked the president, I think, the Association of Journalists of Serbia and Olju Beckovic, who has no left. You know what she said? That the Republic of Serbia is crazy and that the keys have one man. I can't believe that NIN came down to it, in which I, in my mid-80s, led a controversy with the famous Vuk Pavicic for three months on a subject. I can't believe it. Otherwise, this journalist is full of hate, if you follow her on "N1 - CIA" for days, and she tells the citizens last night that they are not normal because most people think, she is the only God of the day. Look at the wonders, the president of the Association of Journalists of Serbia recommended that she eventually change her profession. There's no profession for her. I'm sorry, but she's not even a sheep-guarder. I recommend that she turn to the press code, Article One repeat it every day. What about that Culibrk guy, Chulibrck, what's his name, the editor? Ten minutes of press asking him to apologize for that target he made on that NIN front page. Last night, some say, he apologized. It is not true, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens. He won't do it. That's a very strange man. So, what can I say in the end? Like my colleagues and colleagues, of course we'll vote for these laws. The salary law is very important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do they exist somewhere now? They exist somewhere more, somewhere less, but it is important that we prepare it well, what Minister Ruzic said, to prepare well to really start with a full pair. I see the Ministry does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-02-0.u65315	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Since no one is answering, I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 12 to 16 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
