ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62869	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 52 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by Ljiljana Malusic and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail of the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF POSTANICAL SERVICES You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You've received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinion. Since the Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3), I am opening a search of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2 speaks of the equal business of postal operators. There's talk of inciting competition. An equal access to the postal network. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this bill of law that will become a law if the National Assembly declares it, everything there is in the Law on Electronic Media, but the Law on Electronic Media does not respect it, the equal business of the operator. So, the SBB is a dominant operator developed on the EPS network, on toplans, on pipelines, and has been privileged since the beginning by an operator owned or majority co-owned by the Serbian state. What is equal is what my colleague Karic could say, but let's say that access to the SBB is a double. One goes for, right, Mr. Karicu, one goes for the domestic media, the other goes for the so-called. cross-border, especially for fake cross-border channels not registered in the Republic of Serbia. Home TV channels pay access to SBB, some go free, and smaller channels pay for it. In doing so, the SBB does not pay anything to use the home channel program. The domestic TV channels to REM, RATEL and Sokoya must pay broadcasting fees. This other kind of fake cross-border channels doesn't pay for it. In doing so, the SBB, which fulfils all its obligations, pays nothing to use their programme, these false cross-border channels, owned by the SBB, pays for re-emission and a few euros. These channels, falsely cross-border, are registered in Luxembourg, where there is no broadcasting, hence there cannot be re-emission in Serbia. It is the damages suffered by domestic media through commercials, measuring tens of millions of euros, and from SBB subscribers, subscribers in Serbia and the region are pumped over 500m euros through fake cross-border television and our country remains denied for large revenues. So that's what this is about, which is not in practice about the Law on Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62871	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62872	Thank you, Your Honor. So we are talking today about a proposal that sets out some of the principles on which postal services are based, such as ensuring conditions for the even development of services in the territory of all Serbia. However, what counterpart Risticevic was talking about, and what is not today, these are our fellow MPs who came to the Alliance for Serbia, who, if they were here today, might be able to tell us something about the functioning of the Post Office of Serbia. For example, Goran Ciric, who could have talked today about this proposal because he was the CEO of JP PTT traffic in Serbia from 2007 to 2012. If we remember, in 2012, we will see that he as Tadic's candidate for vice president of the DS said they are coming back stronger than ever, that they will lead Serbia forward again. We also need to remember how they led Serbia forward by 2012. If we go back to the Post Office and the period during which Goran Ciric was the Director-General, we will see, and more precisely by 2014, their debts, that there is a debt DS recorded in all election years and that crosses seven million dinars and which is run by a business dispute, so that their statements that DS has people for better Serbia and their statements today that the Alliance for Serbia has people who will lead Serbia forward, do not exactly stand. We see how they led Serbia forward by 2012. They led her not by the principles that exist in this law, but by the principle of borrowing. We could have talked by 2012 about salaries and pensions that we didn't know we were going to have. Today we're talking about an increase in wages and pensions. We could have talked about unemployment at the time, which was 26%. Today we're talking about how we're looking for single-digit unemployment, at this point it's 10.2% or 10.3%. We could talk about closing down factories then, shutting down jobs, and now we're talking about opening up factories, new jobs, and all that really makes them different from the DS, that is, the government until 2012 and us. In this regard, I believe that there is also a need to mention the things that apply to this bill concerning the Post of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62873	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62874	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed citizens, as amended in Article 2 when it comes to principles, are clearly produced by the Post Office Act in the majority of the public postal operator's obligations, i.e. the Post Office of Serbia. When you read the basic principles on which the law is based, then you will understand why the obligation and responsibility of the Post Office of Serbia to operate on a territorial principle, to serve all citizens in time and quality very important both for citizens, so it is very important that both the Post Office of Serbia as a public postal operator, as a national house, as a national market leader remains one of the pillars of Serbia's economic development. I hope you all understand that today, and our citizens. It is good that this amendment is accepted and that, in one of the principles that tang Serbia's Post and produce its obligation, there is, in fact, the principle of promoting competition, economics, or the prohibition of discrimination, or equal treatment with other postal service operators. We'll insist on that. We will insist that, as is controlled by the Post Office of Serbia in all parts of this country, and even in the farthest village by the inspection, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, we will insist that private operators, or our competition, are also controlled in the same way. Thank you all and thank the government for understanding and accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62875	National MP Aleksandar Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62876	I thank the chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 301 day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs for which they receive their salary neatly. I would like to express my satisfaction with the acceptance of the amendment of distinguished counterpart Marijan Risticevic for all those reasons that the Serbian government also considered and delivered to us in its opinion. However, the chairman and ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are witnessing these days of a re-attack on certain public figures, on individuals who have left a deep mark in our culture by these, in particular, Dusan Teodorović's academics, for whom my esteemed colleague Marko Atlagic has an interesting nickname. Namely, what it's about. Dusan Teodorovic, an academic at his official tweeter's warrant, miraculously attacked our prominent artist and singer Bajagu. I'm about to read you what it looks like. Dusan Teodorovic says – Bajaga, don't be later if you were just doing your job, no, no, you sang at Vesic's concerts, photographed and supported modern barbarians, according to academics Dusan Teodorovic. In my opinion, this is also a threat to the famous artist Momcilo Bajagić Bajagi. On his tweet she immediately reached out, remember that Vesna Pesic, and she has something to say about it. Vesna Pesic says -- well done, professor, there's no there-there, a little bit for barbarians, so a little back to the courtesy that resists this thieving regime. This is a big shame. I have to ask a few questions, how much longer with the target? As long as you're drawing a target on your forehead, as long as you're having more attacks on public figures? Not only public figures in Serbia, but all those who dare to say – I don't want N1 to impose their opinions on me today and others, I don't want N1 today and these others to impose a pattern of behavior on me, I don't want to, I don't agree to hate someone just because they order N1 today, NIN, "Time" and everyone else. What is Bajaga's sin? He's doing his job. Is that his only sin? What he plays, what he does best and knows. At official events, official state events, concerts, a man does his job, and then he's exposed to a link on social networks, from so-called. The elite of Dusan Teodorovic, for whom my esteemed colleague Marko Atlagic has an adequate nickname. I can't agree to this kind of experience over anyone who doesn't accept the hate policy spread by N1, "Day" and everyone else. Remember how our actor Nenad Jezdić went. Remember how they lived up to Zeljko Joksimovic, who dared to say the highway is a good thing for Serbia, and I will make it easier to get to Valjev, because we have a highway we haven't had before. They attacked him right away. Remember how they lived above Goran Bregovic and all others. I'm not just a public figure, I'm a public figure. I'm a man who dares to speak. Hate is not a good thing for all these reasons. I really think that we as a society must deal with these phenomena and stop this madness and hatred spread by individuals from this Council for Serbia – one of five million and all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62877	Thank you. National MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Snow White B. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62878	Thank you, Madam President. Just a brief clarification given that the correspondent in the bill is not adequately described. This amendment corrects and preserves what is traditionally going on in the Post Office of Serbia to meet modern developments in the postal market. So the Post of Serbia still is and remains the leader of both traditional and modern, one unique in this area that I hope we all understand, respect and appreciate and hope to contribute to its future success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62879	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62880	I'd like to do the amendment. Thank you for accepting this amendment, because the Post Office of Serbia is very important to us, for all of us who live in all parts of Serbia, because it has been and will remain what it is for all the needs to end our people who live in our villages in mountainous and mountainous areas, that at any moment can be solved by every man and the problems of our people. We are witnessing that in the previous period there were a number of things that showed that it was necessary for the post office, the infirmary to be present in almost every village. Once again, thank you and the Ministry for doing this, which has been accepted by this amendment. I think this is a big deal for all of us to be working on developing postal services. It's normal to be competitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62881	On Article 3 of the amendment, a Member of the People of Radet submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62882	The adoption of this amendment actually says that the government has finally realised that the amendments of the SRS are always well-intentioned and always with the intention of correcting the text of the law, which is also the case with the amendment to Article 3, which I, i.e. on behalf of the parliamentary group, submitted. I signed it. This bill has already been, for what, two years in the assembly procedure and it is really a question of why he stood for two years, not on the agenda, and it is indeed an important law and of mail as an important segment of our society? A considerable number of amendments have been accepted here, but I find it interesting that a lot of the amendments submitted by Ms. Mira Petrovic, who is the director of "Post" and who knows best from her practice how to intervene with the law in order to raise postal services to an even higher level. We in the SRS think and advocate that every village, every village, must have mail. The absence of mail in a village cannot be justified by a small number of inhabitants. In these villages where there are really few people, mostly older people who do not have access to the Internet, and now they still need to have no mail and then they are completely separate from the world. So it must continue to open post office counters in every settlement in Serbia. We also have a general remark, first why "Post" is not called "Serb Mail", but "Serb Mail", but it is also our principled remark and we have seriously explained it back in time, about 12-13 years ago when the Law on Railways was passed, when we insisted it was "The Law on Serbian Railways", as it is everywhere in the world. But, well, you've defined yourself for this, I guess, closer to those views of those who are bribing you from the EU. We also think that some other parts of the system institution must not hide their bad work and their evil intentions behind "Post". We know, realistically, that "Serb Post" must accept contracts received from competent authorities, ministries, for example, and then we have a big problem, let's say, when it comes to the delivery of court letters or letters from public enforcement. "Post" has been forced to do so, and we think that this job must return to courts, as well as complete work, primarily execution and security. You know, if a postman brings in a letter, the postman has a working time that corresponds to the hours of 90% of Serbian employees, and he can't make a personal delivery. The postman will leave a notice that he tried to make a personal delivery and now imagine that whoever was sent in writing from the court or from the perpetrators, that someone is on vacation, that he is on his way, that, God forbid the hospital, he runs out of those five days where he was obliged to pick up that shipment in the nearest post office and he doesn't do it. Then the courts, the judges and the perpetrators can't wait and say we put it on an electronic board, and of course that someone can't even communicate electronically, we tried to deliver, for us this is a finished story, and we're going to execute. And then we have cases like we had the other day, and I just don't understand how none of you are touching it, that scary picture of your husband kneeling next to a woman lying on a stretcher, who had a hard time getting cancer in front of the building, because the perpetrators kicked them out of the apartment and he doesn't know where they're going with that woman. Therefore, delivery must be returned to the courts, court suppliers must bring in court letters and that they, as it was before, work in the afternoon and then anyone who needs to receive the shipment, he is in the house to receive that shipment and that personal delivery is neat, not that personal delivery be as appropriate to the authority that sent it. Note, this is a post office thing. We don't want to cut our income by post because we're asking them not to do this, we want this job to be done more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62883	MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Snow White B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62884	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ministers with the team, MPs, we have submitted this amendment to say that Serbia's post office 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, must be providing throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where we operate with 30 businesses and we are the only link of this country to our people there, universal postal service at equal deadlines, quality and prices. Our goal was to enable, through this bill, smooth work and the provision of this service, both in peace and in war, through this amendment. I expect that through other solutions, through other amendments, the ministry will amortise this amendment, or at least partially accept it, in a different way, if not as we have defined. So, Serbia's post office, both in war and in peace, has 24 hours, 365 days a year, to provide a set of universal postal services in the entire country's territory, including Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62885	The 9th Amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing you've begun to accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. Speaking of postal services and postal traffic, the government here went to a new law, not to amendments and additions, with an argument to change two-thirds of the applicable provisions. By the way, I'd like to add that we've been changing in this assembly and more than 90% of the applicable provisions in some laws, which is why I just want to underline the different approach of this ministry and the government itself as a legislator. No one takes care of any standardisation, common approach, or legal decision-making. It's all shareno. Maybe someone thinks the color is better. This bill has 111 members and regulates a significant area of market space, which has so far been regulated by the 2005 law. The changes and additions were made after five years and now we have a new law. All who propose the adoption of a new law should give up claims that it is best, that it is the most comprehensive solution. What's best, which is the most complete, is not proven, but simply, it should be underlined and emphasized. Postal services and postal traffic in Serbia have a centuries-old tradition and all this about legislation would not be controversial if pressures from the outside, the EU directive, were not at stake. It remains unclear why the bill has been in the bunker since 2017. Here things are also known and relatively clear - the European Directive of 2014, which makes it more unclear what has been waiting so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62887	Thank you, colleague Boyic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62888	I would say once again, and my colleague before me said the same thing, and Mr. Bojic, that the post office is what is needed, she does it, that she has tradition, that she has respect for everything, that at every moment and in every place those people who are active in the post office, go around those villages, because as I say, and I always said that in our areas of Southeastern Serbia, in mountainous areas, when it's most difficult, when the snow, when the big blizzards, only these people come to these agricultural producers, to these peasants. When they come to them, they provide them with some other elemental needs, not just that postal service. So it's very important that we keep working and that the mail is what it is, a place and a way to get to every man in our every village. I will once again support all these bill proposals and this amendment. I think this is the right thing for the government to accept and that's how it's supposed to be. The post office, I said, health institutions, veterinary facilities, we all have to be there with our people in hill-mounted areas, in our villages, when it's the hardest, when people know it, when it's big trash, when it's a catastrophic time, we go there. I mean veterinarians, medics, postmen and all the other people who have needs, to provide these people with conditions that they can live normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62889	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62890	It is not only burning to remind, the fundamental observation of our Serbian radicals on this bill is the obsolescence of individual solutions, i.e. individual data contained in this legislative proposal. What would be said in the people, the diligence has also been expelled as a means of sending mail since this law. So, we Serbian radicals are simply surprised that the government has accepted amendments not only to the ruling coalition, or MPs of the ruling coalition, but also to individual amendments to the SRS, MPs. What is in this Article 9 where the general condition of the operation of postal operators is defined, and these general conditions are verified by the Agency, we think that the agency could be that regulator when it comes to competition, when it comes to the protection of the users of these services. The government doesn't think that the agency should do it, that there is a body involved in protecting competition, and we think that the agency should, because in principle we have made it clear that it is not true, or precisely defined what the Agency's competences are. While you've already prescribed, gentlemen, you from Resavia School, then you could see, to compare the legal proposals of both the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of BiH and Croatia. You've seen clearly, precisely defined agency competences, and here many members are going through this jurisdiction, so basically, the agency approves these general terms, but the agency does not interfere when it comes to defining general conditions that go to the detriment of potential users. So, it is not clear to us Serbian radicals what the essential role of the agency is, except that the agency as an organ brings sublegal acts, which we insisted on defining which are sublegal acts, whether it is the registration itself, whether it is the price, whether it is competition control, unfair competition and, ultimately, licensing. So we are the ones who insist that through this amendment the agency has in its jurisdiction, which is quite logical, because it also approves these general terms, and therefore, by the logic of things, it should correct them, and general conditions, that is, there is some deadline that we give six months for them to correct these general conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62891	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62892	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, operators can co-operate on the basis of the contract in the post office, and just to remind you that yesterday at St. Friday, it was 176 years ago, as the law gave way to postal services. Thus, the law was passed on October 27, 1863, and it had an interesting titled “Strengthener Post Office. ” So, it was, like, 176 yesterday. It's about the operator's cooperation. Let's see how N1 is co-operating, Nova S, with SBB operator. Imagine, when one of our singers, an estranged star or even a mediocre singer goes to Germany, and even Luxembourg, Austria, Western Europe, she has to report her performance and must pay the fees provided for by law in that country. When N1 TV, “New S”, 13 sports clubs, channels, “Sinemania”, etc., channels owned by SBB are registered fictitiously in Luxembourg where they do not broadcast the program... Imagine when they perform and allegedly re-emitting, they actually broadcast a programme in Serbia and pay no one anything. Imagine N1 television that doesn't have PIB, "New S", no PIB, then how they charge ads, how they pay labour, how they pay suppliers, how they pay electricity, etc.? If this is done by Yugoslavia's Cosic "Adria News", then it is not allowed because paying the money of one company's employees and the obligations of another company are not legal because it is a capital pump. Now imagine that kind of co-operation, where SBB has its own channels. In Croatia, Slovenia, it is not allowed. It's the same as if the owner of the kiosk had his own press. Of course, that's what he points out first. Of course, the SBB broke the law and put its channels past the logical setting, which the law orders, in the first place and second place. So last night we could watch the re-emission of Olive Beckovic. Apparently, she was in Luxembourg, allegedly our esteemed bishop of Grigoria was in Luxembourg, and from there they broadcast, or here re-emissioned the programme they were editing, making programming decisions in Luxembourg, and in such a way, through co-operation with the SBB, re-emissioned the programme to our viewers. Does anyone believe that Olja Beckovic was in Luxembourg last night? Does anyone believe our congratulator Gregory was in Luxembourg? Does anyone believe that he commended Judge Majic on that occasion from Luxembourg? The bishop of Grigoria will not make me give up the Serbian Orthodox Church. I'm a believer in a church, not a bishop. So the bishops can be good or bad. The church is separate from the state, but I'm not separated from the church, but I can be separated from the bishops. The bishops are God's servants, but they often behave, as well as the bishop of Gregory, if I may say so as a believer, as if God were a servant to them, not a servant to God. So last night, you could see that one of the bishops supported a violation of God's commandments. You could see it on an alleged programme re-emitting in Luxembourg, which is a lie, fraud, tax evasion, etc. You could see that, say, he supports not punishing pedophilia. He supported the public judge Majic, deputised him as a martyr, a man who, by his verdict, freed the pedophile with reason that he did not know that he was a pedophile when he promised a younger underage child. Also, he says, don't kill. Imagine killing 80 people and not being punished for it, but Judge Majic with Hadziomerovic, an appeal verdict, freeing the murderers 80 Serbs and the martyrs 250. Imagine when a priest, theologian, bishop of Grigoria, is on a programme reportedly re-emissioned from Luxembourg in co-operation with SBB, Solak, who drives a 55m-euro plane that generates 500m euros annually through subscription and advertising revenues... Imagine when, thanks to this operator and re-emission, we can see how a bishop, a priest, supports and maltenes pronounces Judge Majic's martyr, who freed 11 Shipatarian terrorists who killed 80 Serbs and tortured 250, and they committed the murder by means of a method - easy taking of the soul. So they tortured people until they died. This is the method and, in doing so, they testified in the Belgrade court, Albanians, witnesses, who told how Serbs were deprived of life and how they were tortured, by cutting off women's breasts and fried in the fire. So, such a man is freed and it is unacceptable for me, as a believer, that the priest of the Serbian Orthodox Church, in this case the bishop, in a re-immitted programme from Luxembourg, commends the judge and the minority to the martyr, although this one violated God's command - don't kill it, 80 times it was done, and Judge Majic did not punish it, and that's where our bishop, Grigoria, has an understanding of it. I cannot force the bishops, regardless of their political views, regardless of their co-operation with the SBB, with Gilas, and Gilas leads to his best man, Mladjan Djordjevic, and this one actively participates in supporting the opinion of certain bishops in the Serbian church and against the legitimately elected government. It shows – respecting God in heaven, power on earth. That's what once the bishops preached. However, apparently it is no longer worth it and, in my opinion, they have the right to take their stand, but one priest is also subject to criticism from my position that he should never have praised Judge Majic last night, because it is not to praise the man who freed the killers of 80 Serbs and torturers 250 and the man who freed a pedophile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62893	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has been given by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62894	Dear Vice President, let me express my satisfaction that the government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted this amendment by counterpart Risticevic. Speaking of N1 television, let me say that she is doing the same thing with Goebbels again when it comes to the ruling coalition, especially when it comes to the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Last week, again, Goran Markovic, in a people known as the bumblebee, shined on the N1 CIA, in an interview with hate and poison against Alexander Vukic. Goran Markovic said on that television that Aleksandar Vucic, quote – an unsupervised man, finished a quote. In that interview, he said, at the age of 73, that he had entered philosophy to study, as he says, quote him – to fill the dark gaps within him, finished the quote. Since he has many gaps in himself of the dark, that he lives three lives would not fill them, I recommend to Goran Markovic, director, that this time he enters a pedagogy to fill the gap of education he does not have, and very often he performs on that N1 and Dusan Teodorovic, what his colleague Markovic mentions, is called the "headquake". Why the concussion? Because when he mentions the name and last name of the President of the Republic, he shakes with hatred. It's this academic headache who got fired during the bombing at Traffic College, I had a chance to watch the paperwork, and ran off to the U.S., did what he was doing in the U.S., came back later and did the same things the ones he was doing. My colleague Risticevic was talking about Bishop Gligori. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I cannot believe that a priest is so involved in politics and wonders what he said last night and in the final statement of his fellow counterpart Risticevic, he was even sorry that the Serb list at KIM received 98%. He called it stupid. So, implicated by him, the influence of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo is a stupid thing. It doesn't surprise me to see what kind of priest it is. This isn't the only guff my colleagues would say, he's had more in the last 20 years. So I recommend this television, which, N1, I call, the CIA, to stop doing that. And there's often Rasha Karapanja, who I've called, who's got a month's worth of scientific secise and monster science. That's the Karapanja who signed up for his doctorate. He had no conditions. I recommend, but now I don't know how much possible it is for our ministry to carry out an inspection report to see if there are any elements to initiate the procedure for abolishing Dr. Rashi Karapanji. I know he's not in our country right now, because he's shining forces negative from neighboring countries. Therefore, I recommend this television, not only as counterpart Risticevic said he should pay taxes, broadcast where he should broadcast from, but also a little bit of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62895	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Snezana B. Petrovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62896	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, has been amended by Article 10, the postal operator can use the postal network, technical and technological solutions and databases of other postal operators on the basis of the contract. The establishment and maintenance of the postal address code database shall be carried out by a public postal operator. How did these databases come up? Based on the experience of the brains and expertise of our experts, traffic engineers, electric engineers and these bases are property of the Post Office of Serbia, but they are also one of the types of revenue of the Post Office of Serbia, because we want a profitable system that grows and develops. So that these contracts and all those referred to in Article 10 can be used on the basis of the contract, at certain prices. In order to preserve Serbia's Post Office as a profitable system that can grow and develop, the Post Office of Serbia must preserve this item as one of the commercial services it provides with compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62897	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62898	You should have accepted this amendment. Mr. Djordjevic, you are here now a man representing the government and it is legitimate. However, I think that this article and this amendment are not taken seriously by the promoters is this minister and this ministry is not in a situation where when people with disabilities are closer to edit the conditions to allow them to have access to the universal postal service at any moment, the shipments because, in the end, it is one part and something concerning both the Ministry of Health and your ministry. There are ends in Serbia where it's really amazing that in the 21st century when it comes to old and sick people still have no mail. I spoke in principle as well as other colleagues, Serbian radicals, that the Post Office of Serbia and the Post Office and the Director of the Post, regardless of who it is, cannot implement this strategy alone without the extensive support of the Government and your consideration of the overall system in which the Post office works. If the Post Office of Serbia makes a profit of nearly three billion, that is, on an annual basis, the Serbian Government must set a priority, since the Post Office is of national importance, it is called a public enterprise, but you know, everywhere in the world and throughout our history, back in 170 years, it has had such an important place, I even mentioned the Minister of Postal Services at some time between the two world wars, since this is not the case today, this issue should be approached in such a way. This era of digitisation and e-mail has not done at all what many have predicted, even in some countries in the West, I mean in the UK, in the 1960s, the government told the post office of Britain – get ready, now slowly and later when those teleprinters arrived, and later colleges to be used more in companies, you will have one crash, the malts will go bankrupt. That's not true at all. The written shipment is the most representative in the context of postal services. This is one tradition, and even on the contrary, research has shown that in developed countries and in those where growth of economic prosperity, shifts, activities are even increasing the number of written shipments because it is one security for both economic factors in one society and of course for citizens who have the highest confidence there. Do not avoid accepting our amendments where it clearly indicates that a ministry, as is the case here, is unable to just prescribe these conditions. Secondly, the density of the postal units in Serbia, now needs to be seen and there is still a need to include two or three ministries and a demographic picture and a accompanying infrastructure and all that would allow at first the co-worker to say in each place in Serbia, where the old and sick people live in particular, a postal administration that will provide an adequate way to provide every type of postal service. I repeat again, in the total turnover of all postal services, a written shipment, what is universal for business The post office covers the highest percentage and it even goes up, depending on the end to the end of Serbia, over 60% in the total postal business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62899	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihajlović Vacic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of Snezana B. Petrovic and Mira Petrovic submitted together to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national letter to Snow White B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill is based on Article 2 of the ten principles on which the provision of postal services is based under this law. So, with the principle of 2nd and 9th, it was perfectly natural for me to submit this amendment. One refers to the smooth provision of a universal postal service, at prices, deadlines and quality, for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM, without discrimination, as well as sensitive groups in our society, with a particular emphasis on people with disabilities. The second, or 9th principle, says - to enable even access to the postal network and postal services. Well, in order for this to happen normally and without interruption, it means that we would have a smooth functioning of postal traffic, we felt that this amendment was necessary, given that "Serb Post", after 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, in the general interest of users in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62901	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about mailing for postal services, when we talk about the reception and delivery of postal shipments, which certainly belongs to postal services, we must bear in mind and organise the work of postal operators, and that is exactly what we can talk about also about the intensities of the government that we see and through this proposal. In this sense, the government's intention is to achieve this concrete law, which is to fight the grey economy, which is most important, in fact to improve the citizens' standard of living uninterrupted, on which this government is working, especially for sensitive groups, especially disabled people, which my colleague was talking about. It is important to understand how important the fight against the gray economy is, that citizens and states, all state authorities, all institutions, all organisations, must work together to combat the gray economy. Citizens have to report it, and the state has to respond adequately and apply certain measures that would prevent it from being created. In this way, the state will provide better living standards for citizens, for the sake of safer economy and economy, and they would, on the other hand, have more confidence in state authorities. However, we also know that the quality of postal services, whose improvement still needs to be done, is also important. Furthermore, the efficiency of the postal network operation, the development of the postal services market, in line with the needs of the economy and citizens. What is important, as we should say, is that the proposed solutions provide a higher level of protection for postal service users, senders and recipients of postal shipments. The responsibility of postal operators and the damages they are obliged to compensate the user is detailed, but the responsibility of the sender is arranged. We have some suggestions here that came from the government based on what the practice has shown. The practice indicated that some changes, which are necessary to do and which relate to the responsibility of the consignor, such as the prohibited contents of the consignment or the packing of a consignment that may also damage other shipments. So this is not just about harmonising the law with EU rules, as we could hear, but about a comprehensive proposal that is ahead of us. It's also about harmonising with the Law on Violations, the Law on Inspective Control, the Consumer Protection Act. They are more detailed, some more questions we can talk about later, when these amendments come to order, but I believe that this bill certainly deserves the support of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62903	Thank you, colleague. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before 1863, in 1807, Karajorge had one provision on letters. Our postal traffic in Serbia took place just after the first Serbian uprising. To the soul, it took place in this territory, where some would now lower Serbia, to narrow Serbia down. But, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I ask myself and you for the shipments that Bastac had. Whose shipments are these and what kind of postal services are they, when someone in his backpack is just carrying 13,000 euros? Let's ask ourselves about the input of that money, about the origin of that money, and about whether it was part of that money they made to Sesheljska, Kukova and other islands with various shipments, to the soul of a secret, where Financial Integration claims that by 2011, they made 51 billion dollars worth of privatisation. Imagine now what this government could do, not with 51 billion euros, but that gentlemen who do not attend these sessions, who boycott the work, had stolen only twice as much. Imagine, Mr. Minister, that these $51 billion shipments were only half as small. If it was half the way out, imagine that this government found $25.26 billion, what it could do, and it found an empty register, with dues, liabilities, unpaid works, with a failed "Vojvodine Development Bank", with Agrobank, etc., where it had to settle payment obligations, debts, etc. And there was no white dinar in the register. There was no white dinar in the register, but there was certainly a huge amount of money in their registers, and today, with this sum of money, they're trying to create a media landscape, create riots in the country, and violently take over power. Imagine when one opposition leader, under signs, Bastic claims to be the opposition leader, I claim he is the authority. When you're president of one of the largest municipalities in Serbia, you're the government. You're not the opposition, you're the opposition on the republican level. Imagine, when someone carries a few tens of thousands of euros in a backpack like that, just enough to find maltenes as an allowance, imagine what they would do if they got to the republican authorities again. I think they would take 51 billion euros or a dollar again, and that again, perhaps again, some firms, especially the media, would take over and resell, at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine, too, that all the revenues from privatising them were 6.5 to 6.7 billion euros, and they amounted to 51 billion dollars. So, on one dollar that the Republic of Serbia was making in privatisation, they brought out various white-world islands, they carried out seven. So with this money they buy yachts that do not register in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to pay taxes and compete in the length of the yacht. I'm asking you today - did a tycoon come into existence during this power? It's not one. Both Miskovic and other tycoons were created exclusively, "MK Komerc" etc. were created during the former government and privatisation, the grabbing was a huge robbery. Now, imagine, apart from the 51 billion that we found a social economy, even those revenues, a seven of what they brought out, and that we found 6.7 in a cash register or companies worth 6.7 billion, what this government would do. It is a shame that for 12 years they have seduced citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in such a way, through media control, through privatisation control, through false promises that everyone will receive 1,000 euros per share, it is a shame that DS Serbia and others have let them implement the project. Imagine if we found that money now, what this government would do, how much debt would be paid back. Just to remind you, donor support was four and a half billion. The Paris London Club has forgiven them nearly five billion and 6.7 billion privatisation revenues, almost 17 billion what we don't see at first sight has been wasted by the former government, these here for days avoiding doing their job, but they don't avoid personal incomes, contributions to gasoline, or fuel costs, even though they don't participate in the National Assembly sessions. Imagine if we had that 17 billion, imagine if we had those 26 billion, half of the money that was robbed, what would all this government do today, how much the S-400 and S-300 military would certainly not be expensive to us, imagine how much more advanced the army would be, imagine how many foreign investors would bring in more, imagine how many highways we would do more? They wouldn't wait for the Moravia Corridor, he'd already be finished. So we could do it for the money we're building, like we're building now. Imagine how many schools, clinical centres would make, how many young people they are calling for, how many young people would get out of the country, given that the country would develop more dynamically. Then no salaries and pensions would be, pay 500 euros, an average pension of 238, if those shipments, suspicious shipments of money, which they were carrying, if that hadn't happened, imagine how much pay would be now? The salaries would likely be around 800, 900 euros and probably pensions would now be at 300 to 400 euros. Why today is not a fault, it is not the current government, and our citizens, our pensioners, our housewives, our workers, our peasants, our hardworking and honest people need to know that those who boycott the elections, that it is good for Serbia. They didn't deserve to be on the ballot, that the people would even be in a position to plead for such pests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62905	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62906	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 21. Proposal for a Law on General Services, I propose that position 4 be amended so that the publication of certain services belonging to the universal postal service may be terminated or suspended by means of a legal act of the competent national authority in order to protect the general interest of public morals, public security, criminal investigation, public policy and in other cases envisaged by law. The reason for such an amendment is the need to specify that the reconstruction is possible only on the basis of a legal act by the competent national authority in accordance with the law. Article 21 contains provisions relating to the universal postal service and we have proposed, by amendment, that interruptions or suspensions are possible only with the existence of a legal act by the competent national authority. Unarranged or non-explanatory provisions can become a subject of abuse at some point, so we wanted to warn that possibility. Otherwise, the bill is another one in a series that the proposal states is being adopted in order to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation. As a reason, the Republic of Serbia is said to be a candidate for membership in the Union. We of the SRS take every opportunity to tell the representatives of the authorities that the laws the National Assembly is making must be such that the benefits of their application in practice are borne by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by laws whose purpose is to adopt exclusive harmonisation with European legislation. The legislator, among other things, states that the purpose and the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are reflected primarily in raising the quality of postal services, more efficient functioning of the postal network, improving the conditions of access to the postal network, developing the postal services market in line with the needs of the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in creating conditions for the universal postal service to be fully in line with the social, economic and technological environment in the Republic of Serbia. For us, this is acceptable, but further guidance on the European directives that require harmonisation is unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62907	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. According to the amendment, the word has a folk letter, Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62908	Thank you, Chairman. Article 21 defines the reception and delivery of postal e-mails, so that it is defined that the reception of the service is carried out at least five days a week, except in the days of national holidays, except in the days of religious holidays or in the case of more force. Article 21 also defines exceptions due to specific circumstances and specific geographical conditions, where at least one acceptance of the consignment is guaranteed weekly in advance of certain working days. All of this will enable the raising of the quality of postal services and a higher degree of protection of the rights of postal service users, and the amendment submitted by my colleague Ljubenovic contributes to the improvement of this legislative proposal, as it defines that the conditions and arrangements for the reception and delivery of consignments, as well as the suspension of shipments in order to protect the general interest of public morals and public security and criminal investigation, are governed by the legal act of the competent authority. So I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62909	Thank you, colleague Pesic. According to the amendment, the word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62910	This is a member who regulates the security issue when it comes to delivery and when it comes to postal operators. Here we have a situation where we, the Serbian radicals, drew attention that during this month, a single line was made when it came to not only the postal operator, the public operator "Post-Serbia", but also the state of Serbia itself. It was applied in the worst way, with the accused state of Serbia and the public operator delivering shipments that, specifically ballots, contain certain substances that cause allergies, on a national basis. We don't mind talking about the possibility of teleporting here when it comes to certain televisions and when it comes to individual personalities, because when a colleague can cook pizza for the 22nd century and a colleague comes to that pizza by teleporting, it's no problem that technological advances occur when it comes to television, guests and everything. But aside from the joke, this is a serious matter. We, the Serbian Radicals, have been waiting several days for the official authorities to announce, above all, the resolution ministry and the Serbian government when it comes to the indictment against Serbia for everything that has been going on over the vote, namely the election and count of KIM ballots in the southern Serbian province. To this day, apart from the public appearance of the president of the state, who said he would insist day and night with the EU representatives, to give him an explanation that it is possible that selectively caused allergies are present only in the southern Serbian province of KIM and that it is possible that only when a nationality is, in this case, Albanian, they are at risk category when it comes from central Serbia. No one's answered again. Well, isn't that a little weird for you? Instead of calling the World Post Federation instead of calling for Serbia's appeal, or the Serbian executive authorities, to finally resolve this vile game, played by Kosovo Albanians, we are here silently waiting for the next appearance of the President of the Republic. That's the most serious question, the most serious issue of security, how are we going to, gentlemen, drop all these charges, all these doubts, today, tomorrow, no matter what we pass this law? It had to react, it had to react sharply. The most directly accused is the "Post of Serbia" that it has participated in such matters that are dangerous to the lives and health of individuals. Has anyone thought about doing it right now? The President of the Republic and the President of the Party himself, however, continues to say knowingly or subconsciously, that the SRS is, but your President, lets you know that you need to react, that you have to react sharply, to tell the legal provisions, clearly defined delivery security, clearly protected health of every individual who uses services. No, you don't care. We are here discussing everything and everything, discussing amendments, discussing highways as part of the debate on this law, discussing that there will still be investments, and no one to say -- come on, gentlemen, let's see if the Ministry has sent a sharp protest to international organisations, did the World Postal Union react to that? You're all quiet and then we're surprised when, after a while, others start using that same matrix, that based on our silence, our passivity, to say -- you didn't, gentlemen, react when it came to the election and when it comes to ballots. You're just looking for a declaration, the truth for the sake of the president's advocate, but the executive body of the government and your operator didn't take any action, he didn't object, he didn't look for any investigation or anything that would show the real truth. That's what confuses us Serbian radicals. Do you really think that the EU has the same arches? Do you really think that silence, that brave silence so as to say it, is a step closer to that EU? It's not gentlemen. No, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you know that well. It's just a bowing of the head and a simple acceptance of everything and everything served, in this case by some quasi of the government in KIM that stands at the full capacity of the EU, are those countries that are leading in the EU, otherwise it would be quite different.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62911	Thank you. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihajlović Vacic, together submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) According to the amendment, the People's MP, Snezana B. Petrovic, has the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62912	Here you go, colleague. Mr. Chairman, the acceptance of this amendment is a newspaper with a proposal for a Law on Postal Services. As for the "public enterprise of Poste of Serbia", this amendment receives one great responsibility, in fact, the need for new jobs, so that the job under this amendment, which has been adopted today, let me say that it has been found that it has been adopted and has become an integral part of the law, other than new jobs, the new labour force that are required and the responsibility of the Post Office to comply with the law, actually, I see in the future as a high income for the Post of Serbia, because the execution of these jobs from this amendment will be the source of additional revenue for the Post of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62913	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62914	Thank you, Chairman. The public company "Post-Serbia" and postal operators of countries in the environment, such as "Serb Post", "Serb Post", "JP Bosnia and Herzegovina Post", then "Croatian Post", we signed an agreement on the exchange of ransom shipments and the co-operation was established. The Republic of Serbia has significant economic ties with those countries and the demand of our citizens and theirs for products from these countries is evident. These, I believe, are of great importance the introduction of a postal service which implies that postal operators for the delivered postal ransom shipment from the recipient, i.e. the buyer, are charged the ransom amount and are the same to mark the sender of the ransom shipment with an international mailing manual. In the meantime, the competent ministry has given confirmation to this service that has been developing the Post Office of Serbia in terms of, we agreed that this service will affect the increased volume of e-commerce and will positively reflect the development of small and medium-sized enterprises which are mainly intended for this service. Therefore, the applicable legislation recognises jobs related to the international postal manual in dinars and the effective side of money. In order to provide additional quality of service, especially for legal persons, it was necessary to amend this regulation so that payment of international instructions can be made in foreign exchanges through transfers of funds based on international instructions to current recipients' accounts in banks. For that reason, we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62915	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62916	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, postal services have a price to pay. One of his colleagues was talking about a novelty poison or something, which has arrived to ethnically hit Albanian members of the electoral commission of their quasi state. The price paid is probably the British price. The British who launched the Skripalj affair are probably standing, they're old Serbian friends, thanks to which we probably went to World War II, lost millions and some residents. I repeat what I keep saying. When two fish at the bottom of the sea fight, a British man stands behind a nearby stone. Ladies and gentlemen, the price we need to pay here has not yet been determined. So they come in with some masks, with some protective suits, protecting themselves from Serbian mail, but not protecting themselves from the poored uranium, that doesn't bother Albanians. When it comes to the creation of their wild state of Kosovo and Metohija, that is, their wild countries of Kosovo from our province of Kosovo and Metohija, they do not mind the price they will pay to create that wild state, NATO base. It's not a state, it's a NATO base and it's gonna be a state as long as it's a NATO base. When NATO bases are gone, there won't be a country either. What surprised me in last night's show is that a spiritual theologian tells the Serbian list, and the Serb list is not a list of SNS, it's a list of Serbia's state, Kurti recognized it, but Vladika Grigorija did not. The Serbian list represents a state of Serbia and that is why 97% of the Serbian list is supported by Serbs, and I believe other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province. Says Bishop Gregory it's stupid. For him, the unity of the Serbian people is stupid. Imagine, the theologian to the Serbian Orthodox Church, who says that the unity of Serbs living in the most difficult circumstances and enclaves in the wild country of Kosovo, our southern province, who has been seized by force, who says that the stupid unity of 97% of Serbs is about the national and national interests of Serbia and Serbs? I ask Vladika, for me it's not stupid, compared to his statement whether it's stupid that 97% of Serbs are Orthodox? If it's stupid, according to him, to unite 97% of Serbs around something, why does he think it's not stupid to unite around the Serbian Orthodox Church and that it's stupid, which I agree, when they unite around the state interests? Does he think that if there is no Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian Church will also have a 97% unity? He is working to break unity and in the Serbian Orthodox Church, and as far as I can see in the state of Serbia. I repeat, I am a believer, I was, I am a believer now and I will be, regardless of what he says, stupid, and I will add the malicious statements of a priest, a Serbian Orthodox bishop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62917	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, MP Nikola Jolovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62918	Thank you, Chairman. Article 30 defines that mailing for postal services is paid, as a rule, in advance if the contract of the postal operator and the user is not defined differently and according to the postal service pricer. The price list is a postal operator obliged to point out in a visible place in the premises in which postal services are provided. This amendment will certainly contribute to the improvement of this legislative proposal and will allow for a greater degree of protection of the rights of postal service users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62919	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62920	We look forward to Serbian radicals having such a discussion as the previous speaker spoke about the role of Englishmen, historical roles and their currentity in Kosovo and Metohija. We're happy for the simple reason that we're feeling that it's almost certain that Tony Blair will no longer be a special advisor for the reason that... It was also illogical for such a person to be in that role, a person who and how she contributed to the bombing of the SRJ and, as he contributed and tried, pointed out to defiance of the Serbian people. Generally speaking, he has very, very high or great merits. If it wasn't for the Clinton perverts, maybe he'd be a convincing leader. What's very important here is that about this member who obliges the postal operator to point out the price list in a visible place, we're losing sight of one thing here, and that's that these prices are not defined when it comes to a letter being written when it comes to something that's a constitutional provision. The constitution says the official letter is Cyrillic and the language is Serbian, except in those areas where members of national minorities are at a higher percentage. If we don't define it by law as an essential legal act, then we're going to come across a pattern. Even in some of the provisions of some countries, it is clear that the shipments in domestic traffic must be written in the language and letter in the official letter defined by the Constitution, and we do not have it. In any case, the point and accent is the encouraging discussion of a colleague who announces that Tony Blair has ended, that we will no longer use his services.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62921	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my statement was for the English and it's not just about the latest conflicts. I even threw the accent on March 27th, which was organized by the British SOE intelligence service when we, thanks to March 27th, went into a bloody conflict. Of course, we didn't attack anyone, but it was a reason to be brutally bombed and attacked. My statement is not a SNS statement. I'm not SNS, I'm the People's Peasants' Party and I have the right to stand. I think the English have divided a lot of people, that they are guilty of tens of millions of deaths not only in the Balkans, but worldwide. The British, I mean what I said. Says Sun Cu: “Keep your friends close, and keep your enemies closer. ” Perhaps that is why they should be carefully watched closely and not allowed to repeat historical mistakes, which all Serbian enemies eventually make use of. All accounts in the Balkans have been paid by the skin of small peoples, and there have always been some British people, and especially the biggest cost, the biggest paying for the skins of Balkan peoples was with the skin of the Serbian people and we need to learn from that. I may not be wise enough to point out this English specialty to fight the peoples, but I must tell you that we entered this Second World War and the Serbs died 17%. We lost, and already in the previous war we lost 30% of the population, and in the second we lost 17% of the Serbian population. Do you know how many English people lost in World War II, those who, at £200,000, pushed us into this war? They lost 0.8%. So that's less than 1% of their population, but that's why they spent Serbs, and so are the Russians. My message for the end is: we've fought a lot for others, it's time to live for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62923	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62924	It's not a party question, it doesn't matter as many parties here as it is the general assessment of colleagues that what follows us through history, it's that evil thing about co-operation with the English or what a colleague would say -- friends or enemies in a broader sense of the word. There is no friend or enemy, it is the face, specifically Tony Blair, who was paid by the representatives of the government, and it in some way enables or makes it impossible for the state of Serbia to have certain privileges, and in our view these are devastating things when it comes to the interest of Serbia, because it is a person who will turn more or less for the dollar to the other side. If he was able to roll and cheat on the former president of America, drag him into war, into the fungi of war in Iraq, then how do you trust such a man? Just can't a man wonder how a man like that got engaged, that kind of character that he got engaged in at all? In addition, there are a lot of these strange characters who, as individuals, are put into the role of protecting Serbia's interest or promoting the interests of Serbia, such as Shredder and others, but now let's not spread the story. This is about a great shame that has been inflicted not only on the operator "Serbs", but on the state of Serbia and no one has denied it to this day. When I say no one, I mean the organs of an excellent government, I mean first of all the Government of Serbia, not even a representative of the Government in this Assembly, I don't speak for Mr. Djordjevic who needs to be commended and how he has given the importance of his presence to this debate, but none of the representatives of the Government have called and said - we condemn such a procedure, we ask for a detailed investigation, we ask as soon as possible to determine whether it is true, and the claims made by the southern Serbian province; and on the basis of not only that support to the President of the Republic, as you gladly do, although he leaves you more and more on the side, he declares subconscious or consciously as a radical, and you think what it means.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62925	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Snow White B. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62926	We have submitted an amendment to Article 32(2). Proposal for a postal service law, where the agency is intended to give consent to postage for a universal postal service, other than reserved postal services provided by the Government, this represents a newspaper in relation to current practice, so we suggest that the postage in the part of the unreserved service remain in the exclusive part of the mail operator’s post office without the approval regime, i.e. consent, since it is a commercial segment of business. The aim of this amendment is to protect the interest of the universal postal service provider, since postal operators are required to speed in business and constantly adapt to user requirements. It is easy to be quick in Belgrade and urban areas, large cities, but the difficult environment is to act quickly in the farthest town in Serbia, which is the obligation of JP "Post-Serbia" as a public postal operator in this law. Our amendment was rejected on the grounds that an EU recommendation was implemented, therefore, of the postal transport directive, which provides that an independent regulatory body in the postal service area, among other things, has the task of monitoring the functioning of the universal postal service, i.e. the revenue and expenditure incurred from providing services, and therefore it is necessary for the agency to analyse the postage and give consent to the universal postal service price list, except as reserved for which consent is provided by the Government. I think there could have been other acts here to regulate this, not to make this part of the bill's proposal that will in some ways slow the provision of services by JP "Post-Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62927	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62928	Once again, I would like to thank you for understanding and accepting this amendment because the principle of universality does not need to be applied to commercial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62929	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailovic, together submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm here to examine all the shipments, to question some professors who are very loud critics of the government, which I don't dispute. The more they criticise the government, the more the government should be grateful for its criticism, not just for its praises, but these teachers have no right to lie and steal. The case of Danica Popovic. I ask, what shipment did they pay for apartments at once with 365 thousand Swiss, 400 thousand euros? Imagine, here we have a number of professors, some of whom are even tenants, and now imagine a teacher who buys an apartment for 360 and some thousands of Swiss people, 400 thousand euros, and is loudly criticising the government and standard in the Republic of Serbia? Hello, Mrs. Popovic, so if you were living in America, you wouldn't be able to buy a 400,000-euro cash house as a professor, or $5000, would it be so for Mr. Martinovic to find an example in America that a professor from any of their universities could buy at once for a $500,000 cash apartment? Here's what can't be done in America, with all American dreams and dreams, in Serbia. One professor or teacher, to be gender-equal, buys a shipment at once with an apartment of 400,000 euros. Mrs. Danice, from where? What kind of shipments are these? When we look a little bit closer, she's had co-operation, not only has she robbed a dead colleague, a strange shipment, you take the late colleague's textbook, you copy the textbook, he's dead, he can't complain, you copy his textbook, you put his name on it, you charge an author's fee of a million and 400 grand, on a salary between 200 and 300 grand, when you get an author's fee at the end of 2018. Mr. Minister, you check it out, what I'm saying, because usually because of the truth that I'm making here, usually that other side raises some noise, like -- here's the prosthetic. Just because I'm saying it doesn't mean I'm a commoner. I'm simply saying that our people understand, that these here, together with Professor Danica Popovic, and how well they live off work, and she, behold, signed over the late colleague, his translation work, got a million and 400 thousand and she's holding moral sermons. But, look at the wonders, she's also in the shipments in the banks. She and her husband, Šoškovic, etc., co-operates with banks and talks, writes texts about how non-citizens who took loans in Switzerland should not be helped to pay their loans due to the difference and the sudden change in course. So, the one who bought a 400,000 apartment for cash, which was in Swiss, 365,000 euros bought an apartment, it is against the fact that ordinary citizens, who bought far fewer apartments, three times less, to pay off their loans, that the state helps them not have to commit suicide and resort to other funds because they can't pay for their loan. Look at the miracles, she wrote texts that all of them should return, but they have no way, Mrs Popovic. They don't have any participation in banking. And it's because she and Soskovic were urging people to take loans in Swiss, and then they say that these loans should be returned in absolute amounts, regardless of the sudden change in course, because of that she got, probably because of that she got that money and should respond. I don't know why we're MPs, we're from the public sector, why we're subject to all the controls of the Anti-Corruption Agency, for our salaries ranging from 78,000 dinars plus cobwebs, some MPs get nothing but pauses. Why are we subject to such control? I don't mind. The Anti-Corruption Agency controls MPs with 78,000 plus flat-rate ones, but professors who have 200 to 300,000 do not control, so teachers from the Faculty of Economics enter the boards of banks, make them different services, consultants, urge as many as possible to skin this people and have several types of income and not subject to control by the Anti-Corruption Agency, even though personal incomes and incomes, as we do, are obtained from the state budget. So, I wonder what kind of shipments of public and secret were that a professor, what can't be done in America, could take out 400,000 euros in cash in Serbia, $500,000 in cash and buy an apartment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62931	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailovic together submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailović Vacic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62932	This amendment will, in the most part, help to minimise the time of expansion of the illicit trade that is taking place, which is actually trying to take place in the course of postal traffic, and to minimise the identification of illegal trade and fraud in the course of postal traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62933	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP, the amendment promoter, Prof. Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62934	Thank you. The SDPS parliamentary group has submitted ten amendments. These amendments were tasked with correcting some things in the law, improving, and also helping citizens to make their safety significantly increased. I thank all those who have considered these amendments and adopted all ten amendments. I think it's very good and that the law with these amendments will be better, better quality and at the service of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62935	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailovic together submitted the 49th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national letter to Snow White B. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62936	This amendment was to define and specify all processes in the Serbian Post Office, i.e. reception, transfer and handover, i.e. decking and return of an unscheduled shipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62937	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is about mailboxes, I'm going to list a content that's not secret, how money for subscribers who pay SBB to Dragan Šolak and Dragan Gilas, goes from mailboxes to mailboxes, but it's so little bigger, it can't accept so much money. Let's say, what's kept secret is that the SBB from the subscription of citizens of the Republic of Serbia pays "Darrekt Media" to Dragan Gilas is 28,231,000, and 3,005,000, and then 144,757,000, and then it's small, and then how these protests take place spontaneously like this, 153,630,000. Those who walk should know, there are several hundred of them, that their walk is charged fat, probably Dragan Solak transfers Gilas, Gilas Bosko Obradovic, because it is almost incredible 153,630,000 dinars, then in 2018 another 85,848,000 dinars, and then in 2019 153,680,000 dinars, and 75,600,000 dinars, and 3,671,000 dinars. These are transfers from Dragan Šolak to Dragan Gilas, which is a large bag of money, it's probably a jury. In all, you take 643 million in dinars to get Dragan Gilas from Dragan Solak, so he can separate some of the money for Boskovic, buy a party, can push the DSS into debt slavery. This was in the dinars. Then let's see how it goes in foreign exchanges. Let's go, the "Darrekt Media" inflow that connects to Dragan Gilas, 25,550 euros, and 255,000 euros, and 344,000 euros, and 255,000 euros. This Dragan Solak, according to Gilas, is broad-handed -- 171,500 euros, 261,500 euros, and 19,000 euros, respectively, and 401,500 euros, and when the alleged resistance to power spreads, 790,000 euros and finally the "Darrekt Media" inflow from SBB five million 209 000 805 euros. Total - 10.5m euros and 638m in dinars. So, a nice inflow only in the part of Darekt transaction, Gilas' media from Solak, worth about 15m euros and a half. Hence these protests, hence the requirement for REM to be politically educated, to belong to Gilas, so that they could protect such businesses as Solak-Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62939	Thank you. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailovic, together submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62940	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 71 paragraph 3) of the Law on Postage Services. My amendment refers to a more precise definition of some of the terms used in this law. It is that things must be defined in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, this member of the law is inconclusive, because it is not clear what is set out in the name of operational costs. The fact that it stands out in the name of operational expenses should be called by its name, and that's called compensation. Otherwise, it will turn out to be chargeable without knowing what it's called, or what it's called, it doesn't have its own name. This is how dostowic staffs who obtained various certificates and various diplomas at Soroš's courses were doing. We've seen what this has led us to and what the Dossiers are learning there. No matter what we think of you, we still think you're better than them, so don't let these vague things be found in our members of the law. That's why I think the government should adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62941	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. Members of the 71st amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the proposal for a Law on Postal Services of the SRS amendments refers to Article 71(3), which is amended and reads as follows: "The Agency, with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance Affairs, determines the amount and manner of payment of the fee referred to in Article 1 of this Article, and the amount paid on behalf of the operational costs referred to in Article 2 of this Article", with the reason that the amendment shall be determined in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, the name of the amount paid on behalf of the operational costs, and all in accordance with the amendment to Article 71(2). It's a bill of law. It is good that the Government has adopted this amendment, because as we have seen for reasons to pass this law, it is a matter of compliance with various directives, the First Post Directive, with the Second, and finally with the Third European Postal Directive. We agree, for example, that a reduction in terms of deadlines can be envisaged in which postal service users can request protection of their rights. The deadline has been reduced from 30 to eight days for operators to decide on the basis of customer advertising. This law mentions a wide range of entities affected by the proposed solutions, from citizens and businesses through operators to the ministry, etc. All of this needs to be well tied, monitored, given legal opinions, carried out expert supervision of the ministry. How will the ministry do that remains to be seen. How it will deal with various forms of illicit trafficking through postal traffic flows is a question waiting to be answered. Or maybe all of us together, knowing our legislator, can expect some new changes and additions to this new law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62943	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 77th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 77. The bill on postal services refers to advertising, and we made that point in the third article clear by saying that monetary equivalent is being compensated, because it is actually possible and measurable for damages. However, I would take this opportunity to potential a little improvement in the working-social status, first of all by respect, postman and counterhandlers, and yet, first of all, counterhandlers number one, two or three, or as they already share there. counterpart Snezana Petrovic, from her long experience, spoke very affirmatively and correctly about Serbia's postal system and what Serbian mails do for Serbian citizens and the importance of mail. Because practically not even the state administration can function in a way that would be satisfactory for the system, unless it's done in a good way. A large number of shipments that go through mail relate to the achievement of certain rights which also have pre-exclusive deadlines. By missing those deadlines, of course, Serbian citizens would suffer some consequences. Employees in the post office, above all, respectors and checkers came under fire when the number of employees was limited in 2013 and 2014, and then in reducing earnings from 10%, even though the average earnings in Serbia are now said to be at a level or close to 500 euros, i.e. around 54,050 dinars, full-time postmen, and the number one counter workers have about 32,000. This problem first appeared in large centres because the profits they could make were not adequate, which would have made those same faces work in other business entities. They started to quit, to break up a working relationship, and to move into these companies. Very quickly, it was spilled, of course, by a system of connected courts and smaller places, and then there was a problem. As the post office was first left without a number of employees in large cities, so were the small ones, because they could easily be employed. For a time, I mean, they were allowed to engage in temporary and occasional contracts, where it wasn't even full-time, but maybe 50% or 60%, and then that profit that would be 32 grand was about 16, 17 to 20 grand maximum. It led to the place where I came from, in Love, at one point, of a total of 10 postmen, almost, in a very short time, three quit, and that's 30%. It's a large number when, in one day or in a short time, there's no executor. It happened that many shipments could not be delivered, but they had to be addressed to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, There's no problem with post office employees, there's a problem with the number of perpetrators. I'm not sure that in 2013 and 2014, someone didn't consciously do it. Could it be recognized in the mail system? I don't know, but you know very well that since 2013, in 2014 a large number of fast mail companies have appeared here. It's all been done in the past by the Post Office. We have to say that the jobs done by postal officers on the counters are quite complex. There's a combination of clean postal jobs, as well as banking, that work in banks. But, mostly, the biggest problem is, I appeal once again, that the working social status of respectors and counterhandlers be corrected, as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62945	I thank my colleague, Peric. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62946	You have seen that a mistake has been made because essentially this amendment, which the Government has accepted, brings into a situation of anyone who has been damaged or lost by the shipment, but for the value that belongs to it, not the damage compensation, as it originally stood, which belongs to it under this law, because how much damage it is yet to be determined in the prescribed procedure. We now have one conflict here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the Consumer Protection Act knows the consumer. It is you who, by mail, want something to come to you that you have sent with a seller to communicate with you whether by email or by phone you have directly called, and say now post-express, which is otherwise a great service to Serbia's mail, to arrive at that address or to arrive at you in the recommended mail, which is discriminatory, the most relevant provision of the law is that or the classic packages that are not fast mail, or post-express. You see now, the Postman of Serbia knows of course in the recipient and sender system, and when this is the situation of the sender, because it is the sender who paid the postman, he is the one who claims and guarantees that in the copy with the buyer, or recipient, he put the exact value of the goods in that package, in that letter that was agreed. This way, I would like to warn the citizens of Serbia that they are very concerned about both this correspondence and that they know who they are getting in touch with. Serbia's mail will certainly compensate for the damage, but citizens must know that not those who are recipients, but who should have sent them. Such are the rules of the Post Office of Serbia, and this sender, he does so within 60 days, as it stands here in Article 78, but he should right away when it has already happened to deprive the buyer, not to say – well, now wait, the Post Office of Serbia needs to answer us, we sent a request, so to determine what the value of it is. No, simply citizens need to know that in this case they are calling for the Consumer Protection Act, and when the dispute is to be removed, otherwise it is not common cases, that we are not here in this sense and to say – it is a common phenomenon, it is not, at 100,000 shipments, it is about 10 to 20 in some system that they are either damaged or lost. Believe me, whenever the Post Office of Serbia carries out a procedure that has to be carried out, it is determined that it is a mistake with whoever sent it, because it simply does not send what the buyer expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62947	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic has the word. Here's my colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with most of what the previous speaker, the amendment speaker, has said, and its arguments have also resulted in the acceptance of the amendment. The Serbian government thus sends a clear message that we do not care where it comes from, or from which parliamentary group comes a concrete amendment. So, if the amendment is good, if it will affect the law positively, we accept it as both the Serbian government and the ruling majority MPs. However, I wanted, Mr. Chairman, to express dissatisfaction with a single pressure on the work of parliament, an unacceptable pressure on the work of the National Assembly that came by the Serbian Judges' Forum. In front of me is an article from one newspaper. The newspaper is simply called a daily newspaper, and the paper has become, in practice, a political record of a political group gathered around that Alliance for Serbia or whatever it is called. He says – The Forum of Judges condemned MPs for insults addressed to Miodrag Majic. What exactly is this about? In the text, they say -- MPs of the ruling majority at a session held a few days ago made a series of insults at the expense of the Court of Appeal, Miodrag Majic, who released from the prison of Cypriot terrorists, they put it under quotes, but also that he freed the pedophile, also under quotes. It said in a statement by Serbia's Judges Forum, protesting -- as it pointed out, judges who are professionally and impartially performing a judicial post and undermined the reputation and independence of the judiciary, and MPs directly violate the principles of independence of the judiciary and divide the authorities declared by the Constitution. Only true is this part of the division of power. Keep an eye out, they have appealed to the MPs to stay away from inappropriate and unauthorized discussions and to respect the code of conduct of the MPs. If it wasn't funny, it would be sad. First, it can't be an insult to something that's true. How can truth be an insult? Secondly, let the Society of Judges or the Forum of Judges, as they are already called, say what is not true. He's freed members of the so-called. Gjilan groups? Did he set it free or not? Did he release the pedophile? Yes, and the entire public of Serbia knows that. What's that insult? What's wrong with that, anyway? Thirdly, no one here demeans anyone, but we point out the continued dissatisfaction with Majic's daily day-to-day policy. Every day, man deals exclusively with day-to-day politics. I would like to remind myself that Serbia's political system is defined by the Constitution of Serbia and the governing order rests on the principle of division of power. In Serbia, we have three branches of government and that is judicial, executive and legislative authority. It is totally unacceptable that some forum of Serbian judges influences the work of the legislative authority, influences the work of the National Assembly, teaches us some lessons here. They say -- they appeal to MPs that we stay away from inappropriate ones, as they say, and illicit discussions only because we have highlighted the dissatisfaction that one judge, instead of his work, is engaged in daily politics and is solely printed with what these media are doing to him, which is N1, "Today" and all others, and this is exclusively an attack on Alexander Vukic and SNS. I find it totally unacceptable for us to experience constant attacks and sermons and to be taught how we should behave in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62949	Thank you, colleague Markovic. National MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic submitted together to the 80th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62950	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment has the ultimate objective, therefore, of harmonising the proposal for a legal solution with the acts of the World Postal Union, as I said earlier, whose founder and member we are to this day. The act adopted at the World Postal Federation conventions is binding on all members, including us. We are obliged to implement our legislation, so with this and these deadlines that need to be amended, which are intended for advertising. At the end of my amendment address, I won't answer again, I want to say next. That apparently the public debates and round tables held in order to adopt this proposal for a legal solution have drawn great attention, both to the postal market participants and to us here as MPs. What I can say is that out of the 50 amendments submitted, 31 has been accepted. Our amendments have been submitted exclusively as an experience or need and obligation from work, from our experience, which we have at the Public Business "Post-Serbia", with the aim of keeping "Post-Serbia" one of the pillars of economic development, with main and bearing provisions, are profitability, growth and development and with its basic mission, which is to provide postal services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM, under equal conditions, deadlines and affordable prices. I can say very low prices and that's her basic mission. That human mission is for our employees in the outermost villages to be first aid and support, not to say mailmen, relatives of the oldest citizens in Serbia's teeth, therefore, with whom they will feel like relatives and someone who has security and who will be given support and assistance in time. On the other hand, as an institution, we represent the state in the farthest places of our country. This law brings additional responsibilities and obligations to the Public Enterprise "Post of Serbia", but we are ready and we will respond in quality to everything the law provides. That's what we've always done, successfully realized, and that's what we'll do in the future. We expect the ministry to apply the same standards in the regulation of the postal market, both for us as a public postal operator and for other postal service participants on this market. And we expect him to respect my colleague Sreta Perić's exposure to the working-legal status of our employees, in order to perform in an even better and more responsible way what is our task and the role of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62951	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 82nd. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 82nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Natasa Mihailović Vacic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic submitted together to Article 82 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is proposed by the amendment by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62952	You heard the SRS's views that "Postal" must be approached even more seriously, because we think that every citizen of Serbia must have all kinds of postal services at his disposal and that is absolutely not to be given up. Our amendments have been accepted in a good number, but they haven't essentially changed the law, but they've simply drawn attention to some things that need to be more specific about how certain parts of the law are formulated. For the sake of the public, it just never happened that some amendment of the SRS accepted the majority of the assembly, because it was said earlier that it happened, but the government, sometimes, when they see a little more seriously what we wrote, when they don't explain the order, they're referring to that amendment in front, and the one in front of the one in front and so on, when they see nothing and they don't see what we wrote, but it doesn't matter. We do this first of all to help the citizens of Serbia. When we say that all citizens must have at their disposal all services, there are a number of problems. Let's say you try to send a telegram to some village near Babusnica and send a telegram on Friday, then there an officer informs you that that telegram will arrive to whoever was sent to Tuesday, that has to be resolved. If it communicates with telegrams, certainly there is no other way or there is a serious reason to make it a telegram, then what is the purpose of the telegram if Friday arrives only Tuesday to whom it is intended. When it comes to the development of the village at all, about bringing people back to the country, you're full of these stories, but you know it's not just about bringing younger people back to the village to deal with agriculture. Yes, certainly agriculture, because that's what people in the country do, but these people have to have both church and school, kindergarten, and they have to have mail. The mail with all possible services. So, that one post office counter. First, only one post office counter in each and every small village employs four people, must have this man who works on the counter, must have a security service, must have a maid, must have a mailman. So four people are automatically employed and they can be relatively younger people to help and motivate people to return to the village, not just tell them to go back there to do agriculture. And one who deals with agriculture must have at his disposal certain services that he needs as well as any man, any job to deal with. The fact that you, we see, inherited from Zoran Djindjic, young leaders, that was so in Djindjic's time, young leaders who only thought they should put on a new suit, put a laptop in a purse, tie and walk on certain functions, I will remind you just how those young leaders, so to speak. The young leaders who, at the time, had Dinkic and Labus mobilized. Labus was a professor at the Faculty of Economics at the time, went to the Faculty of Economics and there chose 30 students who were at the end of the study, but something extended to them and then he invited them and provided them with a few days to finish, to pass a few exams, how many they had left. Then these young people, who they also called leaders, got serious jobs. They went for example. In Japan, there were closing contracts, Dinkic all contracts, just send that someone to sign it, so they put them here as directors of various agencies. So Dinkic worked all the jobs, only they signed, and when Dinkic needed one thing among other things and because he was responsible and that the rule of law ended up in prison, it didn't happen, but they're so-called. The young leaders were arrested, so they were in custody, so here, how many years had passed, they were still being tried, and they were no longer young, nor leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62953	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62954	Thank you, Chairman. I was meant by the previous speaker, not to say the pay phone, because then Radeta would have called to correct me, like a few times so far. So, for the sake of truth, I did point out that the Serbian government, as well as the ruling majority, is ready to accept any amendment that goes in the direction of improving the bill, which aims to positively affect the law, hence the application of the law tomorrow, and thus also the well-being of citizens. We have shown it many times so far, and the confirmation that what I am saying is true is in the opinion of the Serbian government that has accepted the amendment to Article 78. The bill, submitted by her colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, and made arguments, and the government said, the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the amendment's reasoning. So we accept the arguments, it becomes an integral part of the law, and I don't see it here, what's the problem? When it comes to young leaders, so I have to take the opportunity to point out that I am proud that the SNS has launched a leadership academy, which has shown that in its ranks there are a large number of young people who are willing to engage, to say, in the fight for better Serbia, to change things in Serbia and to show that we are seriously counting on them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62955	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62956	Yes, a Messenger of the people, not a messenger of the people, not a pay phone, far away. It is indeed high time that you, the chairman, made sure that in the National Assembly we express ourselves in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the National Assembly has 250 MPs, and that someone wants to tap into some of the European, exhausted personnel, who are scribbled around Serbia and, among other things, introduce some new speech, that is their problem. But it wasn't me, it wasn't a colleague of mine who denied me at all, I specifically said, it happens that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopts sometimes, some amendments to the MPs of the SRS. It has not happened that some of our amendments, if not previously done by the government, have accepted the parliamentary majority, for the simple reason that the assembly majority does not know what parliamentary democracy is and does not recognise the basic principles of parliamentary democracy. So this is what I said, and there was no place for intervention at all. It doesn't matter, of course, but there was simply no place, if anything is said, then it has to be true, because here, at least we in the SRS, are talking to the public first. We want all the problems in society to distract the public of Serbia. We are the ones who are with others, with someone who is here now, with some and who are not, we are the ones who fought for the direct transmissions of the National Assembly, not because we are glad to be watched by someone on TV, but because we are sending political messages to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We send political messages through amendments and through objections to the bill and, of course, we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62957	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Katarina Rakic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I will repeat something that is obvious today, from the 50 amendments made to today's draft law, the government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed shown one huge width and has accepted 31 amendments, that it does not stand what the previous speaker, the previous MP said that this assembly majority does not accept. Here, I will deny, the committee responsible, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, has also accepted amendments. But what's essential, what I can say for these amendments, which, of course, she accepted, is that they, these amendments, are more cosmetic, that essentially they really, neither improve the text of the law themselves, nor bring anything new, really more serve to complete the text of the law in terms of lecturing. What I would also like to say is, certainly, to support my colleague Aleksandr Markovic, to say that you are not engaged in the Academy of Young Leaders, it is a job that is certainly done by SNS and our President Aleksandar Vukic, and what he does can certainly never be compared to any of the previous ones who have been in that position, because indeed none can be praised by so many numbers, or so many miles of built highways, so many open factories, so many new jobs. That's what Alexander Vukic and SNS can really praise. I suggest you continue writing these amendments. That's what's going well for you, and don't mention anything that's not going well for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62959	Thank you. According to the amendment, sonja Vlahovic, the People's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62960	Thank you, Your Honor. If I could just have some peace so I could continue my speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62961	Please, be quiet, colleague Rakic is finished, colleague Vlahovic is now speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62962	I'll be patiently respected chairman, waiting. Thank you, Your Honor. I am reporting for an amendment that the government has accepted, although it is coming, although the proposal is an opposition MP, all in order, of course, as my colleagues have said, to improve the bill and allow our citizens to have better postal services. Like I said, we do everything for our citizens. Yesterday you could hear our president, Alexander Vukic, who are our priorities regarding the future of our country and our citizens. One of the priorities is to preserve our country's peace and stability. The second priority is our country's independence. The third priority is the economy, faster and better economic development of our country. The fourth priority is to take care of young people, to stay in their country and work and create their own future, and to get those who went outside back to their country. The fifth proposal is a look into the future for a better and better future for all citizens of Serbia. We will adopt an investment plan to invest ten billion euros for the better face of our Serbia. I must, the Honorable Chairman, taxing to state what our President Aleksandar Vukic said, because it is ten billion euros to what we are going to invest. For a complete sewage network and a pipeline, without Belgrade, we will allocate three billion euros, which means that every village and city in Serbia will have a sewer and clean drinking water in four or five years. Most will be set aside for Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Pančevo, Subotica, Valjevo, Smederevo, Čačak, Vranje, Fireman. We will invest in a road infrastructure worth four billion euros for new projects. A billion euros will be invested in the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Presevo railway, and if Croatia wants to be reconstructed and the railway towards Zagreb, at least 1.3 billion will be invested in local and regional roads. So every county and every municipality will feel better. You know for a fact that an investor won't get where there's no infrastructure built. For schools and health institutions, an additional 700m euros are foreseen, and for prenatal policy, 500m euros. Dear citizens, Serbian citizens, it is very important to highlight behind the out-of-body fertilisation, which will be free throughout Serbia several times, and for social assistance will be the same financial assistance for the first, second, third and fourth children and will be doubled to the current amount of about 30,000 euros, which will be over ten years. Furthermore, I will be an extensively respected chairman because it is still 10 billion for investment in digital infrastructure, scientific and technological parks, an additional 500 million will be invested. 500m euros were planned to build apartments for young people, under even more favourable conditions, than did members of the military and police. In this way, we want to solve housing problems for about 40,000 couples. About 100m euros will be invested in entrepreneurship, 500m euros are planned for energy, and a large investment will be made in tourism and agriculture. The National Investment Plan includes building a metro in Belgrade, so we don't get air polluted, and we also think about it, a national stadium and nine other stadiums on our beautiful Serbia's territory. All to make our Serbia more beautiful, better and successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62963	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on to the next amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 98. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62964	After these comments made on the amendments to Serbian radicals, the man is in a dilemma whether this is compassion from the government, so he accepted our amendments, or they are so valuable that they are incorporated into a new law. We now leave that to those who, from time to time, are following what is being done in this congregation. What is a fact, by adopting this law, of this proposal for this law, is in some way ignoring the position or position of a public co-opter, i.e. "Post of Serbia". We, gentlemen, have here this law a lot of things regulated, defined, when it comes to universal services. We have clearly defined in the law who can deal with these universal services, by volume, by way of way, at the very least by technology and delivery technology, but we have no quality. We have no quality monitoring, which is very important, very important, because at the end of the year, the agency will determine who it is and how and how, what quality it has done its job, so it can possibly intervene or extend the licenses, or give some other measures, when there are no parameters to say, the operator must, when it comes to universal services, that within 24 hours, within one day, deliver at least 85% of the shipments received, that within three days it is domestic traffic, 95%. It can't be, because the law doesn't define it. Yes, in principle, a time limit has been given, it is one day and three days, and as far as it should be delivered, no one knows. So, it's a free appraisal that tomorrow the agency says -- well, these are not so high-quality services, when it comes to delivery, and there's a little lag behind that mail that's arrived, but it doesn't matter, we're going to extend it to them, and the public operator on the other hand in this competition can hardly survive. First, as far as "Serb Post", someone here was saying, they carry a big rock around their necks. It is the Telecom, which still today burdens the "Post of Serbia". No one thought to say – wait, so Telecom is not such a profitable company. If you refused those loans that she took over the post office, let's see if we can settle the accounts, but what do you care? You in that folk, both for the railways and the mail, it's a company of bad students and ruined towers. Well, as far as it goes. What's very interesting is that there's some competition here, some loyal competition, so here you have in the commercial part of the service unfair competition. The commercial part of postal services, especially the public operator, are left at a small door, too quiet for business banks, counting on the Postage Savings. On what criteria does the bank charge the services? For a shipment that makes a payment, or a transfer of money. By what criteria? Under the cross-law criteria, because it is possible, someone who saves here, someone who deposited their funds, and the criteria for the payment of these services are completely out of control, out of any control. And how can the "Post of Serbia" now endure such competition? And that's a very significant income. What did you bring down? You've narrowed it down to, if this "purchase from the chair" takes place, the question of how long it will take, how many people have the money to buy it in such a way, and if the shipments of products that are placed on the domestic or foreign market via mail are possibly delivered, and the whole story comes down to it. You put such a burdened public operator called "Post-Serbia" additionally on the legal provisions of a completely invisible situation, will not forgive or not consider the debts placed on the neck of "Post-Serbia" and will not realistically look at what is part of the services provided by mail and what is unfair competition when it comes to commercial banks and other operators. No, you don't care, you can't even write, and when it comes to foreign banks, what kind of talk. As far as this list is concerned, these sheets of desire to invest, in any case we welcome, God forbid it is and as soon as these investments are realised, but here my dear colleagues are talking about mail and postal services, we are talking about a company and a company that employs 15,000 Serbian citizens. You haven't even defined to the end the rights and obligations when it comes to the strike, when it comes to protests, what do you care, you've left open space, you've only defined so much that you've come to the post office to share, which is the minimum of work, how it's going to work, you've left it for free interpretation and maybe the agency with some sublegal act. What is a fact, we Serbian radicals once again want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the government in some way for adopting amendments, certain amendments to the SRS and thus how much improvements some of the decisions made by members of this law, and for those of you who are collegely following the Assembly's meeting, what else can I say but try to at least read those amendments that your colleagues wrote to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62965	According to the amendment, the word is Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62966	Thank you, Your Honor, for the amendment. They're here to explain some of the amendments that aren't true, so they're not correct. "Telecom Serbia" a.d. was formed in 1997, we all know how it was formed, the minority part was sold to Greek and Italian shareholders, 49%, 51% remained owned by mail, and during this division of assets all remained "Post of Serbia", and all the facilities they use, all the telephones, normally now are changed times, centrals are much less than they were, Telekom Serbia paid today and here across the street today, 15 euros per square, both on Vrško Čukko, and in Tutin, and on Goc and anywhere. I don't think the right findings and the right words have been spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62967	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62968	Here's the logic of things. Telecom was created thanks to the founding role and capital of "The Post of Serbia". When Telecom was singled out, he left her property behind. Where's the logic of things? Dear fellow, we all know about privatisation and who it is, and how, and how, and how, and about buying back those sold shares. But what's left of the burden of the Post, no one, we're not saying that Telecom needs to do this, it's the government, simply, if nothing else evenly schedules on Telecom and the Post Office, and not to leave all the debts to the Post. That logic that you, as a member of the Supervisory Board or of the Management Board, on some representing interests, will not lead us to any solution. You will see what problems "Post-Serbia" will fall into in the coming period. In this unfair competition, this kind of uncleared relationship and the claim that the Post Office is the one who received the "Telecom" maltene doesn't lead to anything. It's just putting a head in the sand and silence in front of the truth, that is, the irrefutable fact that we're going to get into a situation, God forbid, that we Serbian radicals are wrong, because you're always saying it's a conspiracy theory, we're not going to be able to correct all the dubiosis in which the Post Office is going to fall in thanks to this policy, and especially thanks to these interpretations. Anyway, nothing personal about you is personal, nothing personal. I'm not saying you didn't get the right information or anything, it's an interpretation from earlier. It has been present since 2000, if not earlier, to cover the privatisation, a strange privatisation conducted by Djunic and Nisa Beko. Imagine what two names these two names sound like, two lumps. Where a man can doubt such an honest privatization, when such a person... only to add Mladjan Dinkic and full justice would be served.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62969	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Zoran Bojanic. Right on the line. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62970	Thank you, Your Honor. We understand each other perfectly. I don't want to talk about privatisation. We all know what privatisations were and what was done again in 2007, or I don't know what years, when they took parts of "Telecoma" from Italy and Greece. But what it says is that the Post and Telecom, as parts of the single PTT system, have made one correct contract and a good partial balance. I later participated in the list of “Telecoma” and Post Offices. And most importantly, the Republic of Serbia will remain and is now the owner of what is most important, and these are the national wealth of our own roads and our cable sewers. And whoever did the privatisation, then did it badly, because it's not except, so everything that belongs to the military, which belongs to the police, it's a national fortune. In this situation it's a completely different story and I'm saying that the post office was not damaged, if anyone ever took the Alcatel central to my King specifically, and the job carrier was the Post Office, so yes, it was the PTT system. That's exactly why you were thinking. When a partial balance is made for the property to remain Post office and that Telecom pays for everything it enjoys at Post office is 15 euros per square cent, and the Post Office will certainly do its job as well as at this time, the job it does and the Post Office, namely Deutsche Telekom and all other mails in the world. We've separated telecommunications from the postal system, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62971	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62972	Let's simplify things. So someone who gives someone a million dinars or some cash units and that, based on these received currency units, can say, I've acquired so much capital that this start is negligible and that it doesn't need to be exhaled and talked about. That logic of things is already present when it comes to the "deobic balance" within the PTT. That's all true or approximately right, dear colleague, for what you've brought out. Just one fact, you forgot a little thing, TT centrals that made huge capital are Serbian mail, it belongs to Telecom, Telecom now rents them for not small money, collects revenue from it, and doesn't remember anyone saying -- wait, it's still the basic capital that should, as much as it should, be evenly divided. What's in it for me? This sub-optimal relationship, a sub-rent that pays Telecom, is defined as a Tekekom sub-optimal lease using rooms and using a certain postal infrastructure, is out of your mind, counting how much capital it is. I'm not talking here to change your attitudes and opinions, I know how that partial balance was made. It's made by dictatorship. There was no economy there. There wasn't any healthy-logical calculations. That's what's said - this is going to belong to the Post Office, this is going to belong to Telecom. "Telecom" is like a looking, profitable organization, has a bigger perspective, and we'll charge the post with what's called credit, liabilities, anuity, and it'll unload itself, we'll put in more operators. It's a bad bill. I'm just saying for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public, not for the sake of controversy. Besides, TT centrals are such capital, believe me, a good part of all of these dubiosises that the post office meets might be able to deal with that division, what is taken in the name of renting and using part of TT centrals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62973	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Zoran Bojanic. Right on the line. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62974	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm really not gonna answer that again. We agree on a lot of things. You mentioned TT headquarters, I'll tell you one thing. Not even 10% of those 1997 TT plants are operational. Technologically, telecommunications went so far ahead. I mentioned it a little before the King. There's no more... The only thing left is... which the King had. Now they're central, believe me, these pans are as small as one electrician, it's so central, and as far as the division is concerned today and former Telecom workers and current Telecom workers and former Post workers and current Post workers have both actions and certain dividends, and the highest dividend gets state. I'm really not gonna answer that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62975	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62976	I'm glad my colleague came to that initial after all, when I told you when you gave someone a million. You know, technology has advanced when it comes to TT headquarters. The basis was in the old ones, as you say from the '90s, that's the basis, there was no partial balance, there was no adequate compensation when it came to "The Post of Serbia". That's what this is about. Neither did you, and even fewer Serbian radicals contributed to it. What's the point? The point is that you have, looking back, and going by that logic, you have, say, a Jagodina cable factory. At the time of self-government socialism and self-government agreements, they gave up their property without compensation and by making TT centrals supplying both equipment and everything and if they were to be viewed legally and justly, then they would, in a broader sense, have the right to enjoy one part of these compensations they both took from "Post" and "Telecom". But this is about the big system behind which the state stands. Not to spread the story, that's the post office and what came from the post office, where the post office and how significant capital participated. That's what this is about. We have something that can be for us and how a rock around our necks, which is the business and operation of "Serb Post" and everything that happens in Serbia's post office. Don't entertain, not so long ago, there's been a suspension of work, many have not quite shown correctness when it comes to explaining these people who are in one way or another invited to decide to suspend work, except for the honest ones who have explained it. That's the situation. It's the current state of the post office. We're not going to get away from that situation and we can't get rid of the problems that the post office faces. Perhaps someone plans to privatize through this system of laws European guidelines one day. Who knows? We can't follow your point of view. Not even the president of the state can, so he began to distance himself slowly again by, I mean, deliberately saying -- we Serbian radicals, and others are different opinions, but let it remain for some other controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62977	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62978	Thank you, Chairman. There are a few things left unsaid about that part of the discussion about the amendments accepted. Sometimes I get the impression that some MPs simply regret the adoption of their amendments. Our people have a saying. Do you boast or complain? I would just like to say for the citizens of Serbia that it is not compassion when the 31st amendment government accepts 12 out of one parliamentary group. We can't characterize that in any way as compassion, so I think it was one needlessly used rhubarb word. See, amendment to Article 3. Faith Rade – accepted, amendment to Article 9. Dubravka Bojica – accepted, amendment to Article 21. Tomislav Ljubenović – accepted, amendment to Article 22. Alexander Seselj – accepted, amendment to Article 34. Rose Nikolic - accepted, amendment to Article 71. Filip Stojanović – accepted, amendment to Article 71. Zoran Despotovića – accepted, amendment to Article 77. Proposal for a Law Sreta Perić – accepted, Natasa Jovanovic – accepted, amendment to Article 97. Verice Rade – accepted, Nikola Savića – accepted, Milorad Mirčića – accepted. Why am I saying all this? I am also speaking because of that part of the discussion that was used as the Serbian government accepts, but the ruling party does not accept, so I would also refer to the fact that one colleague said that some MPs are actively following the session. It's true that some MPs are following the session in college, but they're not sitting here in this part of the hall, they're sitting in the other part of the hall. T and MPs who have been following the session have had the opportunity to read the government's opinion, and in the government's opinion it is said – the government has considered giving an opinion to the National Assembly of the Amendment on the bill on postal services and says – the government is proposing to the National Assembly to accept amendments to the MPs I spoke about earlier. That's what I'm saying - the government is proposing, I'm sorry that I have to teach some senior colleagues now, the government is proposing to the National Assembly, and the ruling coalition is adopting, or accepting in voting day, so there's no room for the ruling majority not to accept amendments. So, we are thus showing that we do not care what parliamentary groups the amendments come from, whether they are amendments to the ruling majority, whether it is an amendment of dear and respected colleagues from the opposition. So all that matters is whether the amendments are good and whether they will produce a positive effect on the bill. One more thing. As for the objection to the work of the Post, I call on the previous speaker to direct all these objections to Goran Ciric, head of the DS parliamentary group, who for many years has been the director of the Post Office, responsible for the work and results of the Serbian Public Enterprise. So, ppsto this Goran Ciric no longer attends the National Assembly meetings, and he receives, though not pay, but a flat-rate supplement, so he can ask him a parliamentary question. There are Tuesdays and Thursdays, when the days are when an explanation can be asked, that is, a parliamentary issue. There's also the last Thursday of the month. Let him ask him parliamentary questions for all the objections he talked about today, and we, together with your amendments that we accept, are working to correct all the shortcomings of Goran Ciric and the former leadership that have caused damage both to the citizens of Serbia and to the public company Post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62979	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, meanwhile, reported. Are you or Mr. Mircic? (Verica Radeta: I was called the Witch of Radeta.) ) Yes, but Mr. Mircic is currently representing the SRS, but no one named and last name has been mentioned. He has a right to one of you. Either way, you two make a deal. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62980	There was a user manual here and we're going to use one of those instructions you gave, colleague. As far as we're concerned, we don't have to ask anyone, we haven't been, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we won't be, we'll be, we'll be, we'll be, we'll be, we'll be, we'll It is best that you personally ask who you claim to have ruined or brought into this situation. It's best for you to ask him, but you're younger, smarter. You better know what you're gonna ask him. At the very least, there's no big difference in thinking, so it's best for you to ask. As far as the government's proceedings are concerned, I'm now going to tell you something, dear, esteemed colleague, via Mr. Marinkovic. On this proposal, the amendment law, Mr Marinkovic, is being invested or proposed by representatives of the ruling coalition. Is there anything worse that can happen, that the government, supported by a number of MPs from a group of more MPs, is submitting an amendment to this bill? That's hardly ever been seen before. I don't mean to say unseen, but it's a rare phenomenon. Usually, before going to the Assembly with the bill, the government agrees with the positions within the coalition partners and the ruling coalition, so it comes out with a proposal to amend and supplement the law as with its amendment and supplemental proposal. It's common. Just enough, Mr. Marinkovic, to pass on a colleague who appreciates me as an older colleague. Neither my age is an advantage nor your youth is a lack, so you must take care. It's not about who's how much, it's about who's talking. This is about the next one. The government adopted, and if, according to a colleague, the government adopts by giving the coalition's majority partner instructions, then it's about something else and I'm simply surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62981	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. I'll tell my colleague what you told me. Of course, what you just said about the amendment of members of the ruling coalition, it just proves the democraticity of the ruling majority and that it is possible to guarantee the right of all MPs to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with their own security. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62982	In Article 104, it is said, I will paraphrase - if the MP mentions the name and the name of the other MP, or misread his presentation. I'm the Witch of Radeta, and I'm not informed that my name is different. Twice Mr. Markovic mentioned my name and last name to me and he spoke of what I had previously said on the amendment and in relation to what he was saying and he misread me, of course, as you did earlier, Mr. Marinkovic. It is completely irrelevant whether the Government proposes that some of our amendments be adopted. It's not our point, it's what I was talking about earlier, paying attention to the government's poor work, the government's poor policy, etc., but it never happened, I'm going to do it again, really, if someone has a problem with understanding, I can't help it. It has never happened for you to say from there - the MP of the SRS, by name and last name, has submitted an amendment to the member and that, the government has rejected the amendment, and the assembly majority in the voting day has never voted in favour of the amendment. I draw your attention that you do not know what parliamentary democracy is, that you as a National Assembly listen to the government. If the government hadn't responded to these amendments, you all say now, praise every SRS amendment supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if it hadn't, you'd all have answered the same word and said, this amendment cannot be accepted. So, the National Assembly here listens, or the Assembly majority, listens to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the situation must be reversed, says the Constitution, says the basic principles of parliamentary democracy, but it does not matter to us, here I am ending, it is not important whether you adopt these individual amendments, it is important for us to think of you once again and to give up the way to the EU and accept the SRS' position on Euro-Asian integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62983	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I don't want to bother you. All right. Thank you. Mr. Aleksandar Markovic has the right to a replica of Mr. Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62984	Thank you, Chairman. Replication for address and recommendation to ask Goran Ciric. I would ask Goran Ciric all that you have resented in your discussion when it comes to the functioning of the JP "Serb Post", but he is not there, not coming to meetings of the National Assembly, boycotting parliament's work, receiving a flat-rate supplement. I have to be completely honest with you, so let me put it this way - he's not getting paid here, so he's not on permanent duty in the National Assembly, but he's getting a flat-rate allowance and all the other benefits in that sense, but he's not coming to his job. He doesn't come to work for whom the citizens chose him, he doesn't come to work neatly, I say, receiving privileges, neither he nor other colleagues from that part of the opposition calling themselves the Alliance for Serbia. Some of them would come back, some of them would come, but not Dragan Gilas. He doesn't give them, he's holding them tight, over what's called the president of what's left of that DS over Zoran Lutovac. A lot of people want to come back, and if they came back, we'd have questions for the rest of us. I'd ask Ken and I about the Smederian Palanca. I'd have a lot to ask him. I would also ask Zoran Zivkovic for vineyards and many of them, and Balša Bozovic for the Maldives, but they are not and will probably not come, he will not, as long as he heads the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas. I'd like to draw attention to this second exhibit that we've heard a little while ago that I'm just paying attention to my kind of ignorance, Mr. Chairman, so please be kind enough to tell our colleague that we as Serbia were admitted to the Euro-Asian Union a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62985	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Legally, there's a Vervain Radeta on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62986	Yes, there is. Radeta, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, did not speak about what he said just before, a colleague Markovic. We certainly support that Ana Brnabic went to sign this agreement. The agreement had to be signed, because if that agreement hadn't been signed, then we wouldn't have been able to function under that Free Trade Agreement that was signed years ago. We are talking about turning Serbia's entire policy from the EU towards Russia and other friendly countries. That's what we stand for. You can see for yourself what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija under the auspices of the EU. You see only this farce about counting Serbian votes and we are really wondering what level of humiliation you can endure and when you say – well, really, we will no longer be humiliated, we will no longer be insulted, we will not be in the EU, we have a second time, much better, much safer, we have a Russian Federation and other friendly countries that do not want to be our tutors, but want and want to work with them normally, they want to preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state of Serbia. They're the only ones who don't stop calling for Resolution 1244, and you keep asking those who send you some former officials here, etc., to arrange an election process for you now, to reconcile you with the ones you're complaining about not being in the parliamentary benches. Be not afraid; it is not up to them or you; you know it well. If you don't know, you'll be surprised when they show up. So don't let what we're saying about you banalize. We are a serious political party and we want to talk seriously about serious state issues with you and anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62987	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a national letter to Snow White B. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62988	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must finally express great satisfaction here because of the attention the "Post" has taken here today. The facts exist, so we are very proud of the establishment of postal traffic, at our beginnings, but we in the "Post of Serbia" generation and generation of postal employees, and let me dare as one generation, one of the relatively younger, point out these facts and remind me of what is postal history and a postal start. Let us once be a people who follow, remember, know their history and their tradition so that we know where we're going and where we're going to come from. We are not in the "Post of Serbia" desperate, nor are we complaining that we participated in the creation of the largest, strongest domestic bank, "Postal Savings". Remember, they were created by postal workers. Today is the biggest, strongest domestic bank with over a million current accounts. We're proud of it. We are equally proud that we have invested unreservedly and more than plannedly in the company "Mobtel" which the state has sold and included over a billion and a half euros in time, but of course we are extremely proud of the regional leader Telecom Serbia, who, we must agree, are inevitably creating generations of postal workers. But the technological revolution in our society has led to this, and there have been conditions for it to be singled out as an independent enterprise. We split up then, but we also revised those contracts later and rents from year to year fell. It's all a fact and there's nothing to it. We are not complaining about it, we are serving these properties and we are issuing, we are maintaining, it is not a problem, but it is equally true that "Serb Post" took a 219m-euro loan and a mortgage to buy Italian shares and regain majority ownership in Telecom, as in 2010 "Post of Serbia" Telecom transferred to the state, i.e. 80% state property, no dinars. We are not desperate in the "Post of Serbia" and do not complain. We work hard. We're paying off this loan, and all the exposure I've brought here was not meant to distract us and say it's very difficult for us. People, we work, we earn our wages, we pay our dues, we pay our loans. My presentation was aimed at "Serb Post" taking an adequate place in this society. She's been modern since her founding, and today she is. The position it should take is actually its springboard for future time and for creating new values. No mail exceeded. It is not 15,000 employees of "Post-Serbia" overcome. Fifteen thousand workers in "Post-Serbia" today feed 15,000 families, which is at least 60,000 people, or one city in Serbia. My presentation is aimed at respecting this, that "Post" is adequately valued in our society and that the jobs that can be assigned to "Post" are given to continue to be an economic pillar and an incentive for the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62989	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Witch of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62990	What am I going to do? You're making me. Article 104 again. Milorad Mircic: No, otherwise. ) So, Mr. Marinkovic, your right as chairman is that, I wouldn't normally tell Mircic if anyone has the right to reply or not, and you are quite broadly involved in giving a replica to the MPs, and we Serbian radicals respect it very much, but today something is not common. I'll just remind you that you personally, and others who chair there, at the same time, not at the same time, but behind each other, let's say that you give the MPs the replica to the authorised representative, give the replica to the head of the parliamentary group, give a replica to the deputy boss, even though his boss is sitting there and you give the replica to whoever is possibly mentioned, so four lines you give, and they're all sitting there. I didn't say it was today, but it tells you and you know it is. We don't intervene because we're the ones who advocate as many conversations and dialogues as possible here. There's no reason, you're making a move today on our dear colleague Milorad Mircic. He is an authorised representative of the SRS on these agenda points. You must allow him to speak when he thinks he should speak, to replicate on behalf of the parliamentary group. I repeat, I answer when someone calls me by my last name. I still know my name. I'm just asking you to go back to your usual session management, because that's what you do pretty well. Don't spoil the impression, so let's start saying it's not like that. Something happened today. Now we hope it gets better. In just one sentence, I don't know who the recent debate was, I hope not the Serbian radicals. We don't think ill of the mail, we don't speak ill of the mail here, we're just here to help make it even more effective, that job and that activity even more advanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62991	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, and thank you for your suggestions. We are on the same amendment, so, in any case, I was thinking of giving Mr. Mircic a word, he was reported after Mrs. Petrovic's speech on the line. So, no problem, we're ready, we can work until tonight, there's no change in relation to anyone, nor to the honourable MPs of the SRS. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62992	Mr. Marinkovic, you are otherwise recognizable by high democratic principles. They are even higher when, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are reminded of the Verse of Radet, and that is not bad. You should always make progress, you shouldn't stick to the existing one. But what is the essence of this debate, that we are not going far from the essence of the debate, we are here to witness that by law, in some way, we are legalizing that mail, a public operator, something that employs 15,000 citizens of Serbia, we are literally directing these commercial services to remain and to see the perspective in these reserved services, because there is even pressure to reserve services, and these are, among other things, in the largest number of these calls, judicial, judicial decisions. And that's where the pressure is to keep the mail from having a monopoly. You even have not only NGOs, but some government members say it should be left to the market and market conditions. The bottom line is that we need to look at not only how many amendments of the SRS have been adopted by a generous government, but that's about as much as that individual's role in the world revolution. It's just so percentage in four years, here, four years of this term. Literally, a percentage of how much the opposition's amendment has been adopted, especially by the SRS, can be expressed in prominences or decimals. You think the point is that most of the votes can prevent something that's inevitable. Here they should be prevented in time the consequences they can be and how irreparable when it comes to the functioning of the Post Office of Serbia. All that the distinguished colleague put out, it's all true and it turns out that Serbia's Post Office was sacrificed in advance. It turns out everyone at the Post Office of Serbia has earned it. Of course, competition needs to be developed, it needs to be developed to be as many operators as possible, but there are clear criteria, to know under which and what conditions they can function. Like this, a lot of things are undefined in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62993	Thank you. The word has Serbian Filipovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62994	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, these are important topics, although they are not so passionately political, which can cause pompous headlines in daily newspapers, but are important for citizens and are particularly important for those 15,000 people who are employed in the post office of Serbia and for those people who live from receiving in the post office. I'm someone who supports the principle of freedom on the market and what quality of services you provide, so you should go through the market, but you have to think about people who work there. So that's my view of people who are employed in the post office of Serbia. My colleague Markovic presented information as to how much the Serbian government has accepted the opposition's amendment, the works of the opposition currently in the Serbian Parliament. We heard it was a small number as much as the amendments on that side were submitted in the previous period. We can lead the controversy on that. But I am glad that we have the opportunity to see what the character of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is. She is here to listen to the proposals, to consider the proposals, which are presented to her, and to make those proposals that are meaningful and those which are not to refuse. Each government does so in accordance with the policy and objectives set out. No one can order the Government to accept or accept any amendments, but the character of the government and the character of the government is seen through what it is willing to listen to proposals, criticisms, suggestions, from all sides, wherever they come from, and in particular, I would say, it is relevant to listen to these proposals from those people who sit in the congregation hall and do their work. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown this willingness to listen, and it also adopts certain amendments to the bill and that's good. I want to look briefly at one topic that is particularly important. We have touched here in previous discussions of the Eurasian Union and the EU. It's very important to the citizens. It is difficult to talk about today, especially because of the relationship we have seen from the EU to some of our neighbours and according to the expectations we can have, when we enter the EU, whether we will join the EU, but every country, aman, has its strategic objectives. The government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vucic and most citizens in the Republic of Serbia have made it clear what the strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia is. Whether it will tomorrow result in membership in a political organisation as large as the EU or not, that is something less important. Our goal is to regulate Serbian society as a European, modern, developed society. Also, what is on the other hand the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President and all of us in the SNS are excellent relations, brotherly relations, friendly relations with countries that support us and which have shown their friendship, such as Russia, China, India and other countries. So Serbia has its strategic goal, has its focus. The Russian Federation and its leaders, President Medvedev, Putin, have made it clear that they understand Serbia and its strategic goals and, of course, we remain friends with our partners and friends in the east. The Serbian path to the EU should not be separated from friendship with Russia and China. We show this through investment and through military-technical co-operation, through moments and through combat vehicles and through PVO systems and through investment in railways and in Želizar Smederevo and many other investments that come from both east and west. We're ready to talk to everyone. We're not ready to accept blackmail. It is not the Government, nor the President of the Republic of Serbia, who suffers blackmail, but we want to talk to everyone, very openly, and to say what our objections are and to listen to them, and all of this in favour and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, so that they live increasingly and more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62995	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. Now the word after the amendment has Mr. Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Filipovic said several things, and before him and Mr Markovic, related to the current agreement between Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union. First of all, it is not true that Serbia has become a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, but only with them have we signed an agreement. The agreement between Serbia and the Eurasian Union brings some benefits to Serbia -- it can export, I think, two thousand tonnes of cigarettes, limited levels of exports of goat cheese, cow unlimited and fruit rakija unlimited, as I recall. But it's not membership. It's just an agreement. I remind you, one of the main promises that came from SNS and Alexander Vukic is that we, the Serbian Fiat of Kragujevac, will export to Russia, especially using our benefits under the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation. This is impossible because we have received from Russia the answer that the Free Trade Agreement applies only to Serbian products, and Fiat from Kragujevac is an Italian agreement. On the other hand, something that became mantra in Serbia after October 5th and the establishment of an occupation administration instead of a real government and a mob coup, is that it is Serbia's strategic goal and that Serbian citizens have been defined for it. Serbian citizens have never been defined as EU membership. Serbian citizens will never accept, above all, Kosovo's independence and Kosovo's recognition as one of the conditions for EU and Serbian citizens' accession simply never asked that. And if it were a basic message and a basic SNS policy, wouldn't Vucic have gone to Moscow to meet Putin three days before the election, would he have already gone to Brussels? The interpretation of the people who voted in the elections was not as it is now. So, given the latest experiences, which are primarily a lie and a policy of double arches, especially according to Northern Macedonia and Albania, the Republic of Serbia needs to assess its foreign policy commitment as soon as possible and make decisions and act in accordance with its national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62997	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Mr. Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62998	It's a replica. It's a personal reference to the name. It seems to me that fellow Filipovic also has a right to replication. I felt the need to report for that part of the presentation of the previous speaker who said that we were not accepted or signatories of the Agreement with the Eurasian Union, so in that sense I would only like one explanation of my colleague to give, and the topic and title in a not-Serbian but Russian portal. The title -- the Eurasian Union and Serbia signed the Free Trade Agreement. It's October 25th, three days ago. It says -- the Eurasian Economic Union signed a Free Trade Agreement with Serbia. The signatures under the document were put by the president of the Euro-Asian Economic Union, the prime ministers of the countries and Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. I'm reading this for the citizens, not for the colleagues who keep getting it and distracting me. In materials prepared for the signing ceremony, it is noted that this trade agreement not only fully harmonizes the conditions of trade in Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia with Serbia, with which these countries already have bilateral free trade agreements, but also creates an equivalent regime for the transport of Armenian and Kyrgyz goods. I am saying this for the citizens of Serbia, that they understand the importance of such an agreement. And I wouldn't want us to compete here in Russian philosophy. It's more of a rusophile, someone less, but it's generally known that most Serbian citizens are traditionally Russian and I don't think there's any dilemma. But Serbia is clearly defined for co-operation with all important political actors in the world, both Russia and China, as well as with the EU, as well as with all other countries. We have traditionally good relations with African countries, with Asian countries, with the countries of South America, and we demonstrate it every day at every turn. When it comes to the fact that citizens have never defined whether we are for the EU or for such a policy or for such a policy, on the contrary, citizens are constantly committed and declared in all elections so far, and in 2014 and 2016 and 2017, in the presidential and always unequivocal and clear absolute support are given by the policies implemented by Aleksandar Vucic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u62999	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The Republic also has Serbia's Filipovic, and then Aleksandar Seselj, for the presentation of Mr Seselj. Alexander Seselj throws. Mr. Seselj, I have to give him a chance to answer you, because then the point is lost if I give you my word. (Alexander Seselj: I'll forget.) You won't forget it, I know it well. Just get ready. I know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63000	Mr. Chairman, I need you to give me back these 20 seconds that went into the air for a throw. I just want to point out that, my colleague Markovic has been ahead of us, so he said, in all the elections, I will not talk about 2000, I am not interested, since 2012 Serbian citizens have been very precise in election campaigns by the president of our party, the president of Serbia, the President of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and all those who performed could clearly see that the strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia is to join the European Union, i.e. to regulate Serbian society by the standards of EU member states. Less importantly, I have already said this, whether or not we will become a member of the Union itself in what time period. It is much more important for this country to be so arranged and to live in it by the standards of living in the EU, to bring the standard of life of citizens closer to that of Europe's most developed countries. Are our emotions more turned towards Russia? It's not something that's about those people who deal with politics. In politics, you have no right to emotions. You have the right only to Racio and to consider the interests of your country. It is important to us how people in Serbia live. If you give up that export, 65%, 70% of exports, which goes to the EU, then you tell the citizens, then that means reducing the standard of living in Serbia. Serbian citizens work mainly in EU-open companies here. I wish it were different, so we could talk differently, and Serbia is turned to everyone. They can invest here from Russia, from China, India, from African countries, from which they want to and create jobs. Serbia is open to all countries of the world, but it is currently such a condition that people work mainly in companies that are from the EU country. Interest, economic, economic, Serbia is such that Serbia should move towards EU membership. Of course, you never give up your state interests, such as Kosovo and Metohija, relations with Russia, China and other friendly countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63001	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The right to replica now has Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63002	No one disputes the result of the SNS, not the result of Alexander Vukic in the presidential elections, but you. The SNS in the elections offers Vladimir Putin, does not offer the EU and the people in Serbia to vote for it, and after that, as if Vukic had a blank support for everything and after that means, if he deepens relations with the EU, that the people voted for it, although it was the least said in the campaign. That's the facts. The second thing is, we sincerely advocate the closer integration of Serbia and Russia, through the Eurasian Economic Union, through ODK B as a military alliance headed by Russia and everything that is done in Serbia in this direction by the SNS and the authorities will have our support, but let's not fool ourselves. On the other hand, we cannot be Russia's best partners at the same time and co-operate with Russia and China, while at the same time being in the process of Eurointegration. It simply can't be done with each other, and I guess it should be clear to everyone, and in line with how we define ourselves in relation to our national interest. As far as the above is concerned, we need European standards here, and that membership is less important, it's nebulosis. On the other hand, we should compare ourselves with countries in an environment that have become EU members, such as Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Croatia, the countries of the eastern bloc, to see what the standards are like. We will see there that high-level unemployment, that public debt has increased three times compared to the period when these countries were only candidates and that the process of evicting the population has largely increased since those countries became members. Simply, such a situation in the EU that propagates equality, some countries are more equal than others. The European Union, which rests on the free movement of capital, people and goods, simply does not apply to all members, otherwise these first neighbours would be in Schengen. Why didn't they? Here, the Bulgarians have been members for 12 years. So it's not so picturesque, it's not so beautiful, it's not such a fairy tale, it's something that we have to dream about, it's something that would end up being devastating for our countryhood and for our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63003	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Alexander Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63004	I thank the chairman. You may resent everything, but you can't in any way resent the SNS' lack of desire to develop good and friendly relations with Russia. So I really can't accept that kind of argument. You can't say that we are European fanatics, although we never hid in any election campaign that we are strategically defined for Serbia's European path. That's clear, that's known. We Russians have never resented the fact that we are going through European integration, I stress, European integration. They never objected to us being members of the EU. The Russians don't mind us, and now you've found that you resent us. On the other hand, they have never been better relations between Serbia and Russia, never in a recent political history, than it is today, than it has been in recent years since Vucic was president or prime minister of Serbia. I'll remind you that Wolfie and Putin have seen each other 19 times lately. Tell me, when did a Serbian statesman have such frequent and good relations with a Russian president or prime minister or official or statesman? Never, I'll tell you that. Nineteen times lately. I repeat, the Russians have never resented us for our strategic path towards the EU. On the other hand, I will repeat what I just said, this strategic European path does not in any way endanger good, and more than good and friendly relations with Russia, but also with China and with the United States and with all other important political factors in the world. Because we only care about the well-being of Serbian and Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63005	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr Filipovic has the right to a replica, and then Mr. Seselj. Here you go. Same circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63006	Thank you, Chairman. Whether Serbia's path to the EU is good, that's what the results and determination of a country say, its movement towards something is saying whether it's good. Now you've touched unemployment. Great. Unemployment in 2012 is 26%, today 10.2%. Anything else? Unemployment grew by 2012 at an abnormal rate, 400,000 people lost their jobs during the period. Today, over the past seven years, about 300,000 people have been employed. Let's move on, talk about a public debt that was approaching 80%. We expect it to fall below 50%. It's all on that European path you're up against. Serbia's relations with Russia, Russia is against European integration -- that's not true. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission. Don't let us lead them astray. People aren't stupid and naive. Russia would not and Vladimir Putin would not allow the moments from Russia, combat vehicles, PVO systems to come to Serbia. Military exercises with Serbia would not be held if Russia had anything against Serbia's European integration. Russia highly appreciates and respects our country's relationship and the genuine relationship we have with it, which is what we say is our strategic goal, but we are not imposing sanctions at the same time, nor will we impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, as some EU countries have done. We cultivate our friendship in the right way, honestly, not first by lying to our own people that it is possible to give up the EU, that it is possible to turn your back on Germany, France, Britain, Spain and other countries and live well. It's not possible. Some have brought Serbia into such a position from 2000 to 2012 that it is impossible today to give up European integration and to tell citizens – there will be regular and stable pensions, there will be pay increases, there will be progress, there will be investment. He won't. If you stand on the European path and you say – no, we close the door, then you can't live better in Serbia. We need to be clear about that. Also, Serbia protects itself by keeping its friendship with Russia and China, its dignity, by not allowing KIM's status to be completely unfavorable for Serbia, and we are also grateful to the Russian Federation, China and other countries that support us, and we cannot give up our lives and investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63007	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. Mr. Alexander Seselj has the right to replication. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63008	First, as far as the mantra that once came from the Democrats is concerned, and now comes from the Gentiles, due to political ideology, i.e. Politically, that Europe has no alternative and then everything in that perception is understood as an attack not by the EU, as an attack on something sacred, that it is a blastemia, that it is not touched, because, for God's sake, it depends on our future. It is not true that we cannot give up European integration. Why can't we? If a small island of 300,000 inhabitants can make a sovereign decision that is also a country that has an important geopolitical position like Serbia, it can make a sovereign decision that European integration is not in their national interest, how can it be any difference with Serbia? On the other hand, one of the chapters is the harmonisation of security and foreign policy with the EU, the current European policy towards Russia, which will be at least in the near future is the sanctions regime. It is one of the steps Serbia will have to accept if it does not want membership, but if it wants to continue the path of European integration. The European Union is taking KIM away from us. The European Union is the main sponsor of Kosovo's independence. The European Union has installed EULEX in Kosovo to serve the construction of Kosovo institutions. The European Union sees Kosovo as an independent country. In the signing of legally binding agreements with the so-called Kosovo will allow membership in UN KiM, i.e. the Republic of Kosovo. This is what comes to us from the EU. It cannot be the same if someone is fighting for our statehood, for our future, for our better economy and for our co-operation with the EU, above all from their relationship, and then from the comparative experiences of the countries with which we can compare. It is Croatia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. Simply, some countries serve as only a cheap workforce, only to exploit their territorial position, and they are not interested in better living standards for people living in these countries. That's the case with Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63009	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Let's move on to the replicas. Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63010	I thank the chairman. This mantra that Europe or the EU has no alternative to what the previous speaker was talking about, that is, how can I tell you, a pure fiction that it is a SNS mantra. Never, never at any pre-election event, not at any public appearance or participation, has anyone from the SNS said that Europe has no alternative. You've mixed us up with someone else. You mixed us up with some other political parties that were mantra, was a pre-election programme, which they used to say at every turn. Some of them you've worked very well with, but that's another topic. I don't want to open that topic. So anyway, the SNS never said that. We have always clearly and unequivocally pointed out that we are for an equal relationship with all the countries in the world. You mentioned Iceland. I'm surprised you mentioned Iceland. Iceland is a country, a member of the NATO Pact, and Iceland is known for being in the actual sense of the word, a parking lot for NATO planes. Is that what you want from us? Is that what you want for Serbia? Do you want Serbia to join NATO, then say so. There will be elections, say - we are an example of Iceland, we are in favour of being a member of the NATO Pact. I don't believe it's your political program, but I have to say. When it comes to the EU, as the EU recognises the independence of the fake state of Kosovo, that is not true. There are five countries, important EU countries that have never recognised Kosovo's false state. Are you saying that's not true? Five EU countries have never recognised. To tell you the chairman, it is a bit degutant for me to repeat, that is, to deny everything that some years have been saying at the expense of the SNS, especially Alexander Vukic, which is how Vucic will recognise Kosovo's independence. Seven years of campaigning – Vukic will recognise independence, Vukic will sign something. Seven years. Well then they go with the dates, in November he will do so, and in February he will do so, but in no way seven years, Vukic will recognise Kosovo. He won't admit it. Absolutely not. So stop making accusations like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63011	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word again has Serbia's Filipovic, and then Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63012	Mr Marinkovic, we should be in the Assembly having serious political debates, not saying "Ivica and Marica" or "Tron Rose". Serbian citizens are not interested in fairy tales. They're too big for that, especially voters. The voters know the fairy tales and the bass, but we're not here to tell them fairy tales, nor to tell them about the chocolate house, but to tell them the truth, to tell them the truth in the face, and then when they don't like that truth the most. You may not like it, too. I know you liked Gilas' board of directors. It's all good. It's not that big a deal. It's nice to be on the board of directors, to take some compensation there. As my colleague Markovic has said, you may be on your way to the NATO Pact now. Okay. Everyone has the right to change, but citizens need to know. Citizens need to know before they choose what the target is. Serbian citizens know that the goal of Alexander Vukic is a better life, that the aim of SNS is a better life, that SNS and Alexander Vukic's goal, more factories in Serbia, more jobs, higher salaries and higher pensions, as you can see, pensions have been coming since December, and that comes because we have achieved growth. This growth was not achieved by telling people "Ivica and Marica", but by saying that it had to be saved, that it had to be done, and it was earned by someone investing in this country, by opening jobs. This someone is mostly EU Member States. EU members, five of them have not recognised Kosovo's independence. Don't lie to people. The European Union has been divided in this regard by the EU, as the EU itself has not recognised Kosovo's independence, nor has the SNS taken the KIM status negotiations to the EU, to Brussels. That's what your ex-partners used to do with you on boards. They have taken Kosovo to the EU from the UN.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63013	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. Mr. Alexander Seselj has the right to replication. We've moved from business to EU debate, to NATO. Who knows how we're gonna end up. Please stick to the subject. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63014	I don't know what our ex-partners are, you might think of that party you used to be in, but these partners of yours may be, much more interesting. For example, Nenad Canak, a well-known Serbian patriot, is a SNS coalition partner at the level of the town of Novi Sad. Maybe that's some sign in which direction your policy is going. As for the EU and Kosovo's recognition, you know, the EU has a feasibility study for Kosovo. Performance studies do not exist for the provinces, but for the states, it tells you enough. When a legally binding agreement between Serbia and Kosovo is signed, Kosovo becomes a member of the UN, it will not matter whether a state has recognised or not bilaterally, it will be considered to be a state that is internationally recognised. As it has the EU's double arches, the Cyprus example tells us. The Republic of Northern Cyprus is not under government control in Nicosia, and the EU has accepted Cyprus as its membership in integrity. There is a similar situation as it is now in Serbia. It is a policy of double standards and this tells you about the relationship the EU has towards Serbia. She doesn't see her absolutely in her membership, and she's interested in dealing with Kosovo. That's some facts. As for co-operation with NATO, we have never advocated NATO integration. We've always been NATO's greatest opponents of integration. We did not sign IPA and SOFA agreements giving NATO soldiers diplomatic status to have such a status that was not intended for German soldiers during World War II and the Triple Pact. Today, NATO soldiers have such status in Serbia. We advocated giving diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, we as Serbian radicals gathered in the territory of the AP Vojvodina more than 30,000 signatures for the establishment of another such centre, and you were against it. That is so much about NATO integration and who is pushing for NATO.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63015	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63016	Mr. Chairman, according to this logic, the following is, then both Cyprus and Greece should come out nicely from the EU, they should leave the EU, but they did not, but stayed in the institutions and in the EU and continue to fight for their national interests. The previous speaker, Mr. Chairman, was, that is, still young, but he was very young at the time, so he doesn't remember those partners we talked about, Mr. Filipovic and I, the SRS partner, to the city-level soul. I'd take a chance to remind him. It was Dragan Gilas and it was the period from 2009 to 2012, where political trade made Dragan Gilas the mayor of Belgrade. So he didn't win the election, he succeeded in political trade, and before that, they changed the Mayor's Selection Act. They abolished the possibility of direct mayorial selection because they knew that Aleksandar Vukic would win and become mayor. Then they changed it, to prevent Vukic from becoming mayor in any way magically, Dragan Gilas became mayor. But the most interesting moment in this discussion is that in 2009, Nemanja Sarovic, who was then the chairman of the City Committee, and today is a national MP, makes a decision to enter the SRS into power at the Belgrade city level with Dragan Dilas. They cooperated very well, very successfully. The product of this co-operation was the sharing of administrative and supervisory committees at the level of Belgrade City, boards of directors in public enterprises, municipal enterprises, in institutions of the Belgrade City Assembly. However, what is most interesting, I would like to direct the previous speaker, he has ways to find out, is it true that Vojislav Seselj as party president never gave consent and permission to Sarovic actually enter the coalition with Djilas into the new city?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63017	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'm setting a break now. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. We've come a long way from the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic to Article 109. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Information Security Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marijan Risticevic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Zoran Despotovic, Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savic, Milorad Mirčić, Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic, Aleksandar Seselj and Nemanja Sarovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63019	This member of this Information Security Act is directly related to the Personal Data Protection Act. The Serbian Radical Party believes the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which was recently adopted here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is not good. It deeply coincides with the positive other norms of our legal system, and therefore this member in this law, who says that all provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act are applied, is not good and therefore we have submitted this amendment. It is likely that this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will end and the Personal Data Protection Act will not change. We've even talked about it, if there's a constitutional category, and it's about the right to privacy, why you've even resorted to it, these yellow ones before you, and then you, too, are making it up, but then, of course, it came later as an EU directive, some new law, like some new right, when you have the right to privacy. Here there will be a problem with interpreting the Personal Data Protection Act, when it comes to video surveillance, because in this law the area is not well defined, there will be numerous abuses, and on the other hand, and 40 other special cases exist under the Law on the Protection of Personal Data applied in certain situations. Of course that's not good either. There, therefore, only the Ministry of Justice got involved in a bad translation, and of course in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, did not look at how it should be when they allowed such a law to come as a proposal, and you adopted it six months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63020	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63021	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, information security is an aspect of security related to security risks associated with the use of information and communication technologies, including data security, devices, information systems, networks, organisations and individuals. The Internet is often defined as a network of all computer networks. Cyber space includes elements of technology and society, so it represents a comprehensive complex environment, made up of a network of hardware and software, data and systems, infrastructure and business services, as well as people and their communication. The Internet is an integral part of today's society daily, business communication, trade, education, culture, health care, diplomacy. Internet integration into all segments of society makes cyberspace a key component of our real environment. Despite numerous advantages and great potential, the Internet also leaves great space for malicious activities, and some of them have also led to major financial losses in recent years, even the destruction of property and the loss of life. The key role of the Internet in today's society increases the risks of economy, human freedom and security from possible attacks on Internet infrastructure, thus disabling all cyberspace services, including the financial sector and critical infrastructure such as the electrical network or the water supply, while intercepting information and communication and misuse of private and secret data. The development of new technologies brings unquestionable benefits to society, but also parallel to technological development comes new security challenges. According to the EU's information security strategy, high-tech crime is the type of crime that is on the greatest rise, and millions of people are daily victimized by the attack. Hacker attacks on information systems can significantly endanger business operations, functioning of state infrastructure and national security, while individuals are increasingly at risk of fraud, blackmail and online abuse. Information security can no longer be viewed separately from security in the real world. The damage resulting from cyber attacks is very real, causing real consequences in the physical world as well. However, due to the specificities related to the technology of the species, the perpetrator and victims of these attacks, the cybersecurity issue requires special care and everyone who deals with the Internet. State institutions are an attractive target for cyber criminals because they have a large amount of sensitive data, both for individuals and for local and national security issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63022	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is security at all we could ask Alexander Obradovic, right, Mr. Martinovic? Ask Alexander Obradovic what is a traitor? Someone say that a traitor is not the one who betrays a military secret, secret weapon of a country. How else do you call it? Some of these unfortunate people whose time he had nothing to betray, such as Sutanovac and others who organisedly dipped the arms of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Army, who instead of a well-armed army made a well-armed army, which instead of military, did they build a military neutral state for Mr Martinovic instead of a military government. In their time, at the time of these yellow cockroaches and unfortunates, Mr. Obradovic couldn't even become an alarmer, under the circumstances, according to their standards, because before him Sutanovac, Ponoš, Vuk descendant, Boris Tadic, had betrayed everything. So you can't betray traitors. There was no military secret that wasn't public with them, there was no public procurement that wasn't secret, so it was all the other way around. Today, those who have disarmed and neutralized the army are pushing for an alleged alarmer that cannot be Alexander Obradovic under the law. What to say about information security when the USAID training passes by Judge Majic, along with Vejvod and Jesic. What to say about when a group of judges rise to condemn MPs for allegedly insulting Judge Majic. Is it an insult to tell the truth? Is it or isn't it Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Atlagic, is it true that Judge Majic released a pedophile who promised a 13-year-old girl? Is that true? Yes, it is. That shameful verdict was passed by him and said, "It's the usual behavior of the Roma population." Is that possible? That the judge doesn't judge by law, but by the usual behavior that I say doesn't exist. In the 21st century, Roma are very educated and aware of their actions. So, whether it's a security threat, it certainly is, and in the next address, I will specifically talk about the security of Serbs and the disgraceful verdict of Mr Majic, which refers to the murder of 10 Serbs in Gjilan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63024	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63025	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Mr. Risticevic opened a very interesting topic that has many dimensions and a security dimension, but also an economic dimension. Why do I say that? In order for Serbian citizens to fully understand the case of this false alarmer, Aleksandr Obradovic, who is not an alarmer because he did not address any competent state authority, but went to the media with false information to harm the finish line, not only the factory "Krusik" and our dedicated industry, but also to the state of Serbia, of course by the order of his political mentors, above all, Dragan Djilas, who today means, just today, Mr Risticevic, therefore, Dragan Djilas sent to Valjevo, Nebojsa Zelenović, sent Zoran Lutovac, and how much information I have now received from the field, should be joined by Sergei Trifunović. They intended to come before the Krusik factory in Valjevo, because they expected to be joined by the workers of Krusika in the protest for allegedly violating human rights. It didn't happen and then, by the way, today at 17.00 p.m. in Valjev, they scheduled a rally at which the main speakers were, at least announced, Nebojsa Zelenovic, who is in fact the extended hand of Dusan Petrovic. That's the Dusan Petrovic you were talking about, Mr. Risticevic, who killed who knows how many thousands of cows, which is why our cattle fund was destroyed. One of the main speakers is Zoran Lutovac and Sergei Trifunovic. Now, before we refer to the case of this false alarmer, Aleksandr Obradovic, what the citizens of Serbia should know, and the citizens of Valjevo know. I am sorry that he is not currently my friend and colleague, Mihajlo Jokic. Mihajlo Jokic, along with me, if I may say so, we fought a great fight at the Privatisation Agency to cancel the privatisation that was carried out after 2000, part of the factory Krusik, the dedicated industry, which is "Krusik accumulators". "Cruik Batterys" was a very successful firm back in the course of the SFRY, it continued to be during the 1990s. Just one example, how successful this factory was and how competitive it was on the world market when it comes to the military, or the dedicated industry. Valjevo’s “Cruik batteries” among other things exported tanks to Iraq before the invasion of Kuwait in 1990 and before, of course, Desert Storms. What happened after 2000? The factory "Kruik accumulators" Valjevo was privatised by Zoran Cičak. The colleagues who are a little longer in the policy that you belong to, Mr. Risticevic, and I believe the colleagues from the SRS know who it is. Zoran Cicak is a man who has experienced an incredible ideological and political transformation. Zoran Cicak is one of the founders of the Alliance of Communist Movements for Yugoslavia. After 2000, he reportedly stopped being a communist, stopped being a Yugoslav, became a businessman, became a capitalist, making NATO a lobbyist. Today, he writes about Alexander Vucic, SNS, SNS MPs, Zoran Čičak privatized the factory "Krusik battery" Valjevo and from one perspective and successful factory that was an integral part of our dedicated industry made literally a dump. He built a junkyard where nothing worked. He did it along with some of his Slovenian partners. Thanks to the great effort of the management of the town of Valjev, and then Mihajlo Jokic was the president of the City of Valjev Assembly, we were able to cancel after a long and difficult struggle at the Privatisation Agency because there was a lot of administrative resistance, a lot of obstacles, there was no political will to cancel the privatisation of the factory "Krusik accumulators" Valjevo. However, there has been an annulment of the privatisation decision and the Krasik battery Valjevo, here you can correct me, Mr Milicevic, if I'm wrong, this factory is doing very well today and is making a great contribution to our dedicated industry, especially the Krusik factory in Valjevo. Why did I say this? Well, that Serbian citizens understand that nothing happens on the political scene by accident. So obviously the goal of Dragan Gilas is to target this so-called. The Alliance for Serbia to re-destruct our dedicated industry, and all indicators say that "Krusik" in Valjevo achieves better economic results year after year and that profit is increasing year after year. They tried, they almost did it, but they didn't make it all the way to destroy our army while they were in power and now they're trying to destroy our dedicated industry. Then they realized to find a man who is a worker of the Krusik factory, that in the media such as N1 television, such as the list "Today" makes a martyr for freedom of speech, for freedom of thought, to make some false alarmer who is not, because it is a man who has broken several laws, who has committed several crimes and who is from the Krusik factory because these data were made available to him by means of circumstances in the media, so he did not address the authorities but rather in the media, Mr. Rističic provided data that were bearing the mark or "state secret" or "extremely confidential". In every country, such a man would be prosecuted urgently and would be convicted of several very serious crimes that violate the security of the state. In the Republic of Serbia, however, one part of the politicians led by Dragan Gilas seems to have one upside down logic. Whoever's working against the state is actually a martyr, he's a human rights and freedom fighter, and that's why there's been so much dust in the media for days, and in fact this is the real truth. So it's about trying to destroy our dedicated industry, to bring things back to Krusik, but not just in Krusik, but also in all our factories that belong to the dedicated industry complex, 10, 15, 20 years ago, and to stop being a country that produces weapons and military equipment and which exports that military equipment abroad. That was their goal even while they were in power. They destroyed every factory that belonged to the defence system of the Republic of Serbia and entered the dedicated production system. Now that we have managed to raise and Mr. Zoran Djordjevic can confirm this as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we have managed to raise our dedicated industry, when our dedicated industry has become competitive again on the world market, and we have had a great deal of effort to achieve this, now Dragan Gilas, probably, on someone's orders to come from outside, has become involved in the action of potentially destroying our dedicated industry. Then they found as the scapegoat of this man named Aleksandar Obradovic and made martyrs of him, making him a victim, allegedly the dictatorial regime of Alexander Vukic, and in fact it was an attempt to destroy our dedicated industry. This, of course, included all of these Gilas' listeners like Zelenovic, such as Lutovac, such as Sergei Trifunović, etc., who every day deceive citizens of Serbia, citizens of Valjev, as Aleksandar Obradovic is an alarmer, as a violation of the Alert Act, how Aleksandar Vukic and SNS do not allow freedom of opinion, freedom of speech, how innocent people are arrested, etc., and in fact, it is a very dangerous attempt to do very serious damage to the state of Serbia, and when it comes to the factory "Krusik" then it is clear to you that the Serbian citizens should know that this damage is not only economic, the damage is also safe. I hope that the competent state authorities, on all these issues, will respond, as we have reacted in time to the annulment of the privatisation of the factory "Krusik accumulators" Valjevo, and I also hope that the competent state authorities will respond to this manufactured and media-repeated case of Aleksandr Obradovic, because it is not any violation of human rights, on the contrary, it is a violation of the law and it is a violation of the vital interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63026	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Risticevic, would you like a replica of Mr. Martinovic's exposure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, I ask you, myself, Minister of the Interior, is this meeting today in Valjevo, a public gathering, in accordance with the Law on Public Assembly reported five days ago? (Alexander Martinovic: No. ) If not, why the state's reaction is lagging behind, because today it's up to those who were getting beat up at a legally reported rally, so there's been a murder. Today, when no one has ever kicked their ass, when only the President of the Republic and the Finance Minister's brother got beat up by the police, today those who drive the streets of Belgrade, and now the streets of other cities, complain that they are threatened with freedom of assembly, and somebody has applied force on them. I can agree that this one has been executed by Dusan Petrovic, Dusan Strong Krakocide. Now I'm going to tell you why that cowicide was so strong. The year's 200,000 cows, as slaughtered during Dusan Petrovic's term as well as the small Saša Dragina, were also assisted by Milosavljevic, produced annually or as our peasants say they give a billion liters of milk. High-school cows give up a billion and 400 million gallons of milk, but, let's say this was a weaker thing, so let's make it a billion gallons of milk. Do you know how much a billion gallons of milk a year is worth? It's worth 300 million euros. With bodies and bodies at an annual level, that's another 300m euros. This Dusan Petrovic every year because of the cowocide he has done, it costs us, the process costs us 600m euros. That's why we export grains and plant production to other cattle-related countries, and from there we import meat of suspicious origin, and God we, and dairy products, not exactly fresh ones, but, say, cheeses in large quantities. As for Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Martinovic, I agree with you, but you should have added the following. It's not only a shame what he gave up, it's a shame what a foreign factor can get out of it as a conclusion, what it can add up. From his information someone can see the type of production in Krusik, they can see the production balance, they can see the prices, they can see the customers, they can see everything the state has been jealous of, besides him, and probably his mother who approves of that kind of behavior, even though she was the director. His responsibility is greater than that. Why wasn't he a machine locksmith? Why wasn't he a locksmith? What was no ordinary worker in “Kruik” who worked in production? He was already a bookworm, a son of a former director, who, for his mother's sake, had to know what sensitive information it was. One more thing, Mr. Martinovic, from what he has given, provided data, or issued, as everyone would say, that information could also conclude on the direction of development of our dedicated industry in Krusik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63028	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to fill in a little bit of what Mr. Risticevic said. What Aleksandar Obradovic was doing is next. It's a man who's spent five years in Krusik, or he's been taking pictures on his cell phone, data and contracts that have been marked as a state secret and top secret. Apparently, he did it because he was gunned down by his mother being removed from a leading position in “Cruik. ” Of course, I believe he was doing it on someone's account, as I believe he was doing it for money, because I doubt anyone like this can do just because he's unhappy with the fact that his mother isn't in a running position in a factory. What Aleksandar Obradovic did and what the state, fortunately, managed to prevent, Mr. Risticevic, I hope you will agree with me, we talked about it, it was in its own time and Rodoljub Sabic under a fake firm to apply the law on the availability of information of public importance. He asked the Ministry of Defence, the Military Security Agency, for information from the Military Intelligence Agency that also wore the designation "State Secret" and "Stortly Classified". He asked, among other things, to be provided with a schedule of units of the Serbian Army primarily in those positions in Kosovo and Metohija, according to Macedonia, to be delivered to him precisely which unit is involved, what kind of weapons the unit has, the numerous state of the unit, the command system, etc. Here is Zoran Djordjevic as former defence minister, which can be confirmed. When the competent authorities failed to deliver that information to him, because they could not, they were not legally obliged to deliver it, and they would have violated the law themselves if they had done so, then Rodoljub Sabic began to play the victim of the dictatorial regime of Aleksandar Vukic. Here, he says, now they're attacking me, accusing me of being a traitor, of being a state enemy, etc. And I'm actually just looking for certain data relating to the Serbian Army, and the disclosure of these data would cause enormous and irreparable damage to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, there would be enormous and irreparable damage to the security of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, only a naive man, extremely uninformed, can believe, Mr Risticevic, that several years ago Rodoljub Sabic, and now Aleksandar Obradovic did it out of ignorance. They knew very well what they were doing and who they were working for, but the one they work for is certainly not the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63030	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63031	Mr. Martinovic, they didn't do it out of ignorance, it made them sick. The Americans remain deprived, and some other forces we wish were well denied for data to receive directly from the command. They could no longer receive them from Vuk Jeremic, from Boris Tadic, from Sutanovac, from Ponos. So no one could put the data, say, on a CD, on a DVD, on a USB and go on a carrier and hand it over directly. So, the old good practice, until these yellow cockroaches fell, was that the minister and generals put that information together nicely, translate it into English and take it, as it was, to Ohio and those aircraft carriers, as they already called themselves, and that Mr. Sutanovac was doing very happily, Mr. Ponoš also. Just to remind you that their term of office was overheated by 700 armors, that one tank was sold for $5,000, and that the $5,000 Mr. Kena could drink for one night. So they could sell the tank and drink it the same night at the cafes in Smederjevska Palanca. I'll also inform you that a lot of cannons have gone missing, that they've been soluble and that "The Iron" in Smedereva during the time that the Americans were holding it, worked until they drowned what was being given. It could no longer count on the command chamber, so it moved on to lower structures, with what our people say is a horse on a donkey, from generals and minister to worker in "Krusik". He didn't do it unconsciously, out of ignorance, but these others were in extortion and they probably pressed him and he did it wanting not only to harm his mother, but he wanted to help those who had lost that information. I think that the information he has provided can point to the direction of the development of “Cruika”, which is very devastating for our country, because our opponents, our enemies, and our competition in the production of weapons can clearly see the quantities over a long period of time in the way of production, the structure of production, the sense of which will be the direction of development in the next period and this is very harmful to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63032	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63033	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Here's another contribution to discussing this politically very current topic. During their rule, during the authorities of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and others, and others, Mr Ristic, you know very well, the security service at the foreign ministry and the foreign ministry at the time Vuk Jeremic was foreign minister, and the deputy minister was Borislav Borko Stefanovic, and it was abolished, beware, none of the countries in the world did it, the encryption, or the encryption, that is, the encryption of foreign ministry communication for its DKP in the world. In other words, anyone who wanted to, and who knew who wanted to, could have read the telegrams that the Foreign Ministry sent to our embassies, or consulates in the world, or telegrams that our embassies and consulates sent to the Foreign Ministry. This is how they cared about the state of Serbia and the interests of its citizens. Why did they, Mr. Risticevic, still hit the Krusik in Valjevo? During their government, Krusik was in a state in which I described him. So, the factory that was partially privatized, which practically didn't work because they said -- we don't need the dedicated industry, we don't need the military, we have friends now, we're surrounded by all sides of our friends, we don't need the weapons, and then let's put an end to the military, let's destroy our dedicated industry. During their government, the dedicated industry was on the exhale. Now, they hit the dedicated industry in Valjevo, specifically the Krusik factory, because in 2017 the factory achieved a net profit, not a loss like during their government, but a net profit of billions of dinars, and in 2018 out of half a billion dinars and during that time we managed to employ more than 1,500 citizens of Valjev and surrounding towns in Valjevo, so that the factory Krusik in Valjevo today numbers more than 3,300 employees. Of course, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Zelenovic and others say they are all members, all of them are SNS activists. It has nothing to do with the truth. These are citizens living in Valjevo, those are citizens living in the surrounding cities, and they got a job not because they are members of this party or that party but because the state of Serbia, led by Aleksandr Vukic, managed to bring our dedicated industry to its feet. All these things they're doing, and it's about this Alexander Obradovic, the false alarmer, it's actually a painful blow to our dedicated industry and to our military. That's what Serbian citizens should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63034	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63035	Thank you, Chairman. It is obvious that the issue of information and security is in the 21st century and how they are connected and conditioned. Namely, false, incorrect and incomplete information can endanger the safety of not only individuals. They may endanger the security of both countries and peoples in general, especially if such information is the kind of person who has a specific position in society, and they must be particularly careful when it comes to information and be aware of the consequences that such behaviour can cause in society. This story of mine concerns certainly this false alarmer, Aleksandra Obradovic, and above all yesterday's statements by the respected Serbian bishop Grigori. Namely, speaking among other things about Aleksandar Obradovic, the bishop of Grigorija also commented on the results of the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. In his commentary of elections in Kosovo and Metohija, the bishop of Grigoria says the following - I am not blind, boasting in the 21st century with over 90% of votes is the least said nonsense and shame, so I talk to those who tell me to open my eyes. At my place in Ljubinj, when he told the other how you got to 96% of the vote, he got the answer – we didn't get it, we bought it. Now there's the end of democracy and it has nothing to do with anything anymore. You should be stupid and brag about that result. Telling anyone that he's "stupid" is at least something that isn't nice, not to say something harder, especially if something like that comes from a priest. Also, only an unreasonable man can say that it is possible to steal 96% of the votes with some kind of buy and violence. It may be in Bosko Obradovic's case. Remember that some Western embassies, with the help of their creditors in Belgrade, entered this respected home with violence and purchases that had been organised by some Western embassies when the threshold for which he lacked a few passes, the electoral threshold, came right up with shopping and violence. But to say that 96% of the buy votes are at least a denial of national will and an insult to the entire people. It's not just an insult, it can be dangerous for the whole society. He tells the distinguished bishop that he heard that story about buying, heard from two men, in a conversation between two men in his and our Ljubin. I was just wondering what the essence of his words was? He explained the respected colleague Martinovic's actions behind the operation and what caused Aleksandar Obradovic's operation, and here I will not believe that the reason for the operation is either weak or incomplete or no information of the bishop. I won't even think about evil intentions or anything else. I just wonder what the two men in his and our mistress could still say to the bishops. Did they tell him that President Aleksandar Vukic and the state of Serbia in that same Ljubinje funded tens of thousands of euros to rebuild their home of health? Did they tell him that in the village of Bajevci, near Ljubinja, the water line of 300,000 euros is financed? Did the two men tell him that the state of Serbia and its president are also funding Foca-Gacko's 2.5m-euro trip? Did these two men also tell him to fund the Nevessinj House of Culture worth 150,000 euros? Did the two men tell him that right now the state of Serbia and its president are financing the construction of a assembly temple in Mostar, the largest temple in the diocese, in which he recently tabled? Did they tell him that he opened a consulate, that the president of the state opened a consulate in Trebinj in order to get as close as possible to our citizens on the other side of Drina? But I wonder if those two men told him that at the time of his friends' authorities, those whose protests today were called by the aggressors on their land? Did they tell him that in their day they were persecuted like wild beasts and locked up in cadets all over the world? Did they tell him that they felt humiliated and ashamed of their own country? If they're not, here, I'm ordering the government to leave and ask them again, but to bring in 96% of those people in Trebinj, Ljubljana and get information from them, to tell them what's true, so that next time, with full information, they can go public and perhaps not intend to compromise security. As for the very finding that the priest says to be obsessively out front of the mirror every morning and says: “Who are you? “ Every morning I will say to the mirror that I disagree with you. That leaves a question for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63036	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63037	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Dear Minister Djordjevic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are some issues open. I'd like to make a contribution. I will certainly stick to the framework of the bill that we are talking about in detail. We are talking about information security as a set of measures that allow data to be protected from unauthorized access, as well as ban the unauthorised availability of this information, that data. We're talking about secrecy, as a property that means that this information is not available to unauthorized persons. The integrity means preserving the completeness of the data, and availability means that the data is available at the request of the authorised persons when they need it. So, did the false alarmer from Krusik also violate these legal provisions that regulate information security? I am not surprised that he said there will be a rally in Valjevo if we just see who will be the speakers there, Zelenovic, Sergei Trifunovic, Lutovac. They are destructive people who spread hatred for their political insinuators, according to Serbia, towards Serbian citizens, towards institutions in Serbia. They're able to abuse everything to bring down Alexander Vukic because they know that the elections don't have a chance. I absolutely don't wonder what it will hold, which will speak at a rally in Valjevo because they are going after Serbia to work against the same Serbia. Just now, Zelenovic also spoke against Serbia and the institutions of the Council of Europe, against our country, to play a great sacrifice. I can't understand that someone can hate their country so much that they give secret information to foreigners, but counterpart Martinovic and counterpart Risticevic certainly have more information than I do. I call on them to really bring that information out here to Parliament, so that citizens can see how much they wouldn't care about them, how much they wouldn't care about their safety or our country's safety. The question is, why does it panic when it's being talked about here in parliament, why now suddenly we want the citizens to know the truth? As soon as that happens, we're part of the impression of the week. I didn't mean to talk about it, but some of my colleagues already started it today, and one of my shows was on that show last night. I ask the question, why is it normal for the Court of Appeal to host political shows and to engage in daily politics? Why is it normal for people arrested on certain charges to now turn into political prisoners of this government? Why is it normal for Jovo Bakic, as a sociologist, to say in one show to the MPs that they are pigs, and MPs cannot talk about it in parliament, and then it is not normal. So it's about wanting to be the only form of behavioral assaults, impose hatred on all political insolents, and as soon as someone asks or criticizes something, they need to shut him up right away. Ladies and gentlemen, SNS MPs won't shut up. We will always tell citizens how these false oppositions deceive them, and we will not be silent about the results of our president and the Serbian government, because that is what hurts them. They have never had such results and have never been able to have such results. Let them say what they want. We're here in Parliament, we're working, they're on the street. Our government is leading Serbia forward, while they are still on the street. We have results for pride. What do those results have to show? What can they say? How many highways did they make? How many schools? How many hospitals? How many factories did they open, new jobs? What investments did they bring to Serbia? What political programme, if nothing else, are they offering Serbian citizens today? Another thing that happened this morning, while we're talking about vandalism, at this rally in Valjev that I'm not sure how it's going to end, whether or not they're going to be harassing some people, whether or not they're going to paint the building in their favorite colors, this morning the supporters of the Five Million organization painted the building of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences stickers and that way what they did? They have again made it the only thing they know and thus put pressure on the scientific and teaching council to discuss the doctorate of Minister Cynthia Mali. So, pressure, influence on institutions, that's what they stand for and don't advocate democracy. That's what their young people do. Young people who are in the SNS, we were able to see yesterday at the marking of the SNS anniversary, are members of the academy where, among other things, they will learn about the postulates of democracy, but also learn how to respect Serbia, its citizens and its institutions. And I am proud of Alexander Vukic's relationship with young people who are members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63038	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Mircic has a word for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63039	We don't mind talking in parliament about all the current issues, what the public is interested in, but this is about a concrete proposal to amend and supplement the Information Security Act. This is about something that is very important, not just to protect something that is of particular importance, but to protect those who are the most endangered, unfortunately, lately, which are the youngest, they are children. It is difficult to claim or guarantee that safety or protection will be 100%. You know that well. Those who have heard and those who have not, after WikiLeaks, have no secret in Serbia without being available to the public. Later or later, she'll always be available. What we're talking about right now is mutually so-called. Putting together replicas, within one coalition alliance, set up replicas. There's one story very instructive, and that's the story of the emperor's suit. No matter how secret and inaccessible the robe of the emperor was, one day she swam to the surface, out of sight, and everyone started talking about her. Here, in our opinion, Serbian radicals, we don't need to fool around or lose, rather, time with individuals. All of this will eventually be confirmed or denied, depending on who and what role he played during a certain period. I'm just reminding you, in 2000, on the claim by us Serbian radicals, that these criminals came into a five-eyed revolution thanks to dollars from abroad. Not only were we convicted by criminals who were in the majority, but, for God's sake, and one good part of the public. A good part of the public had a large reserve for Serbian radicals. It turned out later, and now they're coming up with all these facts about the government at the time, so this power won't come up now, either, but once you're out of power, when you're in opposition, how who, then these truths will start to come up. So that fitting, let's say, is what Alexander Seselj knows best about it, how it works when it comes to information and misinformation. Now you can defend or accuse anyone, we can trust, and we don't have to believe it, but there's a lot of money being invested here, as the proposer says, a lot of money being invested to create systems to protect what's of particular importance, not to protect the information that's going to be from the Purpose Industry, gentlemen, don't you realize that this information has strangers, they have intelligence foreign service and how interested in the Purpose Industry, they know who's doing it. You can't stop it. It has nothing to do with the alarm clock. It has nothing to do with Obradovic, but the foreigners got away with it. Most likely, they want to change the current power in Serbia. Who knows what they do and what they intend to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63040	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63041	Dear Vice President, certainly information security is part of the overall security system as one of the main pillars of our country. Speaking of these three, which Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Risticevic spoke of today, as well as the predecessors of one opposition party, it is true that they have continuity. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, it is true that they have continuity. They've had continuity since October 5th. Let me say that it is not by chance, as distinguished colleagues Martinovic and Risticevic said, what Dragan Djilas found, called the "jiki Mafia", today in Krusik or Sergei Trifunovic, in a people known as "Sergej Pišoje" or Zoran Lutovac, in a people called "the stray", because he strayed into politics. That's what his colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia tell him. Let me say that continuity only in two sentences. You know, I've brought it here myself several times, and Mr. Martinovic and Risticevic, that Dragan Djilas, in the people known as the "jiki Mafia", 13. Eight. In 2009, watch out, in 2009, I quote, "I stand for the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo," the US Embassy concluded. That's the continuity. Let's move on. That's the same Dragan Gilas before 4. Seventy-seven. In 2008, he visited the United States, came back here, gathered a group of hooligans. Seventy-seven. In 2018, in the Cachanska bar "Morjevski alasi", immediately upon his return from the United States, together with Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic, the unfortunate Zelenovic, who sues our country every three days in Europe, Janko Veseninović, called "stanocrats", etc., who made a plan to tear down the country's president on the subject of Kosovo. Look at the miracles, those who betrayed Kosovo, instead of trying to get Kosovo back where it came from, they showed who they were. Speaking of which, this Sergei Trifunovic, called "pishoi", otherwise the new nickname now has, which is known in the people and among his colleagues, one gram for now, two grams to carry, eh, this Sergei Trifunovic is 31. 01. In 2019, I quote: "Kosovo is lost. Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not Serbs." Well, what surprises you, ladies and gentlemen, that he's going to Krusik there today? Respected Serbian citizens, they destroyed what Mr. Martinovic said, the Purpose Industry earlier, and they want to do so now and find their spies. It's true that everything is known, but yet man is a key factor. That's why they caught this unfortunate Alexander Obradovic. This Zelenovic, well, it's an amazing miracle. He goes every three days, sues the state of Serbia abroad. I wonder what our D.A.'s doing. There's a member of the law from 305 to 321, let them work on it, let them question it. He's not the only one. I don't have time to list them now who they all were. This isn't just the two traitorous bastards of our country, there's Professor Rade Veljanovski. Do you know what 21st said? 04. 2018? I quote, "Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a chair in the UN." It's a finished quote. That's the egg professor among fellow colleagues, because he was doing wonders about the doctorate. Those of you who follow, you know very well who it's about. What about the others? Boris Tadic did the same thing, was also among the traitorous bastards. He repeated three times that he would give up Kosovo, not to speak to you again. So this didn't happen today, this has been going on since October 5th. It may not be convenient to say this, but the D.A. should have taken it into his own hands a long, long time ago. Their government was all traitorous. Not only did Perisic issue documents, so the whole government was, formerly, former DOS and former DS. So this is not to be underestimated. Let me just say, it's not just them, so what does this academic do, this guy who's been driven out of Traffic College? He was evicted because of unhappiness and irresponsibility at the time when our country was bombed. Where'd he run off to? In the U.S. How long did he stay? Two years. What he was doing there, let our services question and go back and hire two daughters to state universities and tell us that we are the primitives here. We're primitives because we're doing our job, because we're not being driven from the firm that we worked in, because we were worthy and responsible people. Dear citizens, do not let yourself be deceived, by the unemployed, by the hohstuplers, by the lesbians, by the freebaros, by the cutlery and the loofts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63042	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Information Security, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 2 which is amended and reads as follows: “Article 3a shall be added after Article 3a, which reads as follows: The processing of personal data, Article 3a, in the case of the processing of personality data and during the exercise of competence and the fulfilment of the obligations under this Act shall be handled in accordance with the regulations governing the protection of personal data. “ With an explanation that the amendment better and more precisely defines the bill. The information security area has been regulated by the Information Security Act since 2016 and 2017. The proposed changes and additions are reacted by reported or otherwise detected incidents, which are now more and more. The Information Security Act illustrates the way and access to legislative work. He is one of the few, if not the only one who was brought before the European directive in this area, but it is one of the necessary laws because only in the vast cyberspace will there be a battle between the state and the incident individuals, business groups and companies. These individuals, who today call hackers, earn huge amounts of money, and the work cycle is very large, while the most endangered species today are children on the Internet, because young people who are eager for challenges are spending more and more time on social networks. In our MUP there are specially trained professional people for so-called. Cybercrime, which is not only our privilege, but it's a wider global problem of modern times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63044	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. The word is Zarko Bogatinović, according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63045	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the use of ICT information and communication technologies by the state, businesses and citizens is increasingly on the rise, and more and more jobs and activities are based on their use. The state authorities rely largely on information systems, which allow for easier and more efficient performance of operations under their jurisdiction. When it comes to the generalisation of bodies and parties, it should be pointed out that the electronic administration is developing, that the number of electronic services of public authorities is on the rise, thus enabling citizens to obtain the different documents they need. In the local self-government of the town of Leskovec we can boast of numerous e-government services. We have introduced a system for live streaming, transfer of assembly sessions, as well as a session of the city council. The sessions are transmitted in full, without censorship, to the official city site, and the audience-saw signal is also given directly to all interested media houses. In this way, we have made it possible to monitor the work of local self-government more transparently. The complete information system that we have implemented ourselves, and the live transmission is done via free live stream servers, and in this way it seems to be a huge savings. Also, in the local self-government of the town of Leskovci we built a brand-new web presentation of the city. In addition to the rich content, this site has received new electronic services, such as virtual parenting, public procurement, ask the mayor, investor guide. This site has received high marks from NGOs. We developed the site completely free of charge, making a huge budget savings. In the local self-government of the town of Leskovec, we have introduced an electronic register of administrative procedures that enables citizens to obtain information on how to apply for their rights in the jurisdiction of local self-government. In one place citizens can come up with information that, with which documents, within which time and at which costs they can obtain the necessary permission, approval of solutions, copies and other acts issued by our local self-government. Also, a form can be downloaded from the register that needs to be fully completed in order to initiate the desired procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63046	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. I'm always glad to hear how far the Leskian is going. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63047	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the focus of this bill is to define incidents that pose a significant threat to information security for whose efficiency there should be a better link between all relevant factors in this area, and the greatest support is in the expert frame. Staff. I have no insight into the state of personnel in this area, but I am pointing to the necessity of creating adequate personnel, which, with good infrastructure, is a condition for efficient system operation. The draft law amending and supplementing the Information Security Act refers to a law which, in any case, is unique and in some way in the field of elementary phenomena. In fact, the law on this subject was passed in January 2016. The European Directive of July 2016 So, seven months after our law, and you've explained that the law is largely in line with the European directive. It is better that you said that we have provided for certain solutions that are later incorporated into the European directive, not that we have brought our law into line with their directive, which means that this proposal of yours is in line with sound logic. It should, and I guess that makes sense, that the child looks like a parent, not the other way around. The risks of security violations of the information and communication system are high. There are abuses of information-communication technologies. Information security has been compromised, and children on the internet are at risk of the worst. Also, there is a trend in high-tech crime. All the old stories, everything people have created and promoted, other people have played for their own interests or passions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63048	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Mr. Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63049	This goes into that estimate that gets significantly increased from 0.03 to 0.035, so that's a lot of contribution and width of understanding and understanding by the executive government, but to get things serious. This is about something which is the first step, which is to make one selection of what should be protected in terms of this law, what information and who should be involved, especially those operatives who are named and included in this business, and they have to be clearly named, by their last name, with all their data recorded. So far, there have been institutions and institutions that do not belong or should not, under the criteria, belong to this category of protection, information on protection. However, it is now done by including the central bank in one part, which is good, very, very good, because this cyber, this terrorism refers to financial system failures. Like I said, we don't need to idealize. It's hard to expect that everything will be highly likely to be protected, but this is, in some ways, an organization that should contribute at least to knowing who's doing what. So I don't know how the SRS can express its gratitude for this insight of the executive government, which has accepted part of the SRS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63050	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63051	If our government hadn't been so hasty and as it appears to us, that they waited a little while, because the EU Directive 20/12 followed, somewhere in January of next year, then we could bring amendments and additions to this law, so that it fits in so that we don't have a situation, as we had in 2016. This was a bit of a joke, but there's a lot of serious stuff. Information security for every country is a very serious matter. For us, Serbian radicals, too, we are not burdened with conspiracy theory, but fully certain that the European space is seeking security protection and trying through domestic regulations in Serbia to provide itself. In particular, this 7th member who speaks to whom he is all obliged to notify the service that monitors certain data, including the National Bank of Serbia. Why the National Bank of Serbia? Because of its very serious intention to protect money laundering, that is, to prevent money laundering, which would be financed by terrorism. Mr. Minister, you were the minister of military and you know who you found when you took over that ministry in that ministry. I'm absolutely certain that the situation today is not as it may be then, but we're sure that today exists, not only in that ministry, and there's a very great danger if so, there are people who are without morals, without anything that is patriotic and they receive money for something they need to do is neither foreign nor unknown at all. That's why, by submitting this amendment, we wanted to provide additional security and say when certain incidents were found out that there was an obligation, but beware of the obligation to inform the BIA. What the government has proposed states is that it can be notified or should be notified. We wanted one degree of obligation to introduce through this amendment. I think it's perfectly normal, and you say that this amendment is not accepted, as the amendment under the regular number 2 of this proposal is not accepted, because it does not contribute to a better solution. We just think it contributes to a better solution and we want it to be that way, because our country must have a lot of pressure on the outside. It is necessary to put as much threat to our country's security as possible, as before we have many unresolved problems and which are being opened on a daily basis, not only in KIM, but also in other border areas. Therefore, this amendment, which we have proposed, should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63052	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has a minister, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63053	Thank you. I have to react. I must tell you that when it comes to the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, only honest and honest people work there today. However, as you know, you've been having this debate here today, I'm going to step out of this topic a little bit, but I have to say that really as the Secretary of Defense, who was in his period, while I was in office, I've met with all kinds of demands coming to the ministry. You did mention Rodoljub Šabić here today, but not just him. I received many requests from him, which were completely insane, until Mrs. Natasa Kandic asked for what demands she made when it came to KIM and our units. Then, it is not by chance that some natural persons, which I suppose today are headed by some columns that have protests and protest various nonsense, are those who wrote then to the Ministry of Defense and asked for some crazy demands – from telling them the names of people with addresses that were on KIM until they say how many planes Serbia has, how many pilots, how many flights there are, how much training they are, how much fuel we have and how many ammunition and weapons we have. In such a situation you come to think about that someone who is on the other side and when you explain it and say that you can't give it, that you get orders from the other side that your request is rejected and that you have to give it and then stand between two things – to betray your country or to pay the penalty. I've been more than willing to pay the fine and, of course, not betray my country. Here you were talking about telling secrets in a dedicated business of Serbia. I think we have to fight it as a state and eventually someone has to answer. As long as someone doesn't come to their senses and is responsible for betraying their country, for delivering information to foreign intelligence services and foreign citizens until then, things like that will always happen to us because if there's no punishment, then it's a message that you can do anything. I think we are now mature as a society. Given that our dedicated industry, but also our Ministry of Defence and the police are armed enough, that we have to take care not only of the weapons and security in this sphere, but also of security when it comes to information and that the first cases that happen, and already one of them has happened, that we have to insist that it must be punished in accordance with the law and that once and for all, both the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Armed Forces and the police and the BIA take off the agenda this burden of crazy demands that it wait and see when and who in the leadership places will give up and that something which is a betrayal of the country, which is giving away secrets to pass away and that somewhere is being made public. I think they'd look forward to such a thing and then put on a pillar of shame exactly the one who runs the ministry or the BIA. I think it's good that you mentioned it today, that there's been a debate, and I, as a former defence minister, appeal to all those who now care about security to insist that where there's a breach and a secret to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63054	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The right to comment, i.e. the replica has Sreto Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63055	Mr. Minister, thank you for joining us and for one part of the allegations that we have made simply confirmed. I must say that we agree with you when it comes to the Ministry of Defense sitting there with the largest number or an extremely large number of honest and honorable people, the best maybe this society has and can deploy them to those places. That's not at all controversial. You've shown who's exerted all influence on you or asked for a request or established a certain invoice for you to pay through some acts you didn't want, so I can say you shouldn't have done it as a man in that place. I firmly believe that even now that you are no longer there, there are also a large number of people who are willing to give their homeland what is most sacred, and that is their life, but there are many NGOs, there are many individuals who have no morals, no honor, no cheeks, money is all, and they are willing to do that and you are now to convince me that there may be no individual there... Even before you were some generals, the handover of materials at Ibarska masteral near "Sharic" and who knows where everything is not. There's probably such a possibility today. We provide maximum support to anyone who is ready to implement first all legal regulations that allow a decisive fight against those on the one hand, and, on the other hand, a very serious investment of weapons related to the equipment of military units, police and all other special units. We absolutely support it without going to conquer some territories. If God should never have used it, but to be prepared precisely for those whom Serbia is not in the first place, and to us, as I suppose, a large number of colleagues who support this government, it certainly is. That's why we're against it, and we need to allocate certain resources and all of this and cost, of course. It is also necessary to perform very frequent analyses and very serious checks. Anyone can get into a situation with a lot of money to give in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63056	Thank you, Mr. Perry. According to the amendment, Mr. Zarko Bogatinović reported. Here you go, Mr. Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63057	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, in the context of the Information Security Act, I would like to underline that the local self-government of the town of Leskovec has also introduced an electronic service to report the communal problems "System 48". With this service, citizens can report a communal problem via a web portal or mobile app. The obligation of competent utility companies is to solve the problem as soon as possible. Feedback information on the status of the requested request can be traced to the web site of the web portal. We also developed the software ourselves and thus made savings. Also, in Leskovec we introduced an electronic e-diaspor service that allows our people in the diaspora to come to the necessary documents in a much easier, more efficient and faster way. Not only for Leskovci, but for citizens of 107 municipalities in Serbia's territory, located abroad. We've developed this service ourselves. When the city is reset, thanks to these systems, the subdirectory relating to information systems is filled with 100%. That these information systems have made the work of local self-government more transparent, in addition to the confirmation that comes from citizens, the NGO's research "Transparency of Serbia" also testifies. The NGO placed the seventh place of more than 145 local self-government in its investigation into the transparency index of the local self-government of Leskovac. Also, we are proud of the e-parliament project that we have achieved with the help of the UNDP and the Swiss Development Office. It is an electronic system consisting of a system for managing parliamentary documentation and session management. The benefits of this system are numerous, costs are reduced by eliminating the need for printing, transporting and keeping paper documents. The time needed to find relevant documents is significantly reduced and Parliament's work seems more effective. This system generates savings of over two million dinars per year. There are included paper costs, toners, amortization of copiers, delivery and archiving documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63058	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63059	Thank you. For several years now, this regime has been declaring itself advocating the progress of information technologies and their practical application. We are here again to point out the shortcomings of what you are trying to represent as ideal, but not to be misread as Vukic said yesterday, all of us Serbian radicals are truly in favour of all these advanced technologies, but what you are trying to represent as ideal is not so. Now, through this amendment, I want to draw attention to, to ask -- as envisaged, what is foreseen in this Article 8 in which the information technology operator would react and why is it never to carry out copies of the electoral lists from local self-government on the ground? You know very well that this is happening, and that it is a very dangerous and serious abuse for which, if the legal system works, someone must go to jail. The law provides for a three-year sentence for any abuse, when it comes to the electoral system. And this is a serious abuse, and we all know that activists of ruling parties, especially one, are walking with the ballot below the mouse, going door to door, and another copy of the voter lists is on the ground, in the polling post next to those official voter lists. That's where people are recorded, re-removing, moving that ruler up and down, we all know what's going on and what's going on, but we want to ask, maybe ministers, as someone today speaking on behalf of the government about this law -- do you have an answer to this question, are you going to do nothing so far, but will you in future protect the electoral right, the electoral will of the citizens, will you protect the citizens of Serbia from this great abuse and from giving local self-government representatives of the ruling coalitions to make copies of the electoral lists? There can be no greater abuse of these modern technologies than that. If you have advocated that you will digitize everything in Serbia so that you can use this digitisation, because it is certainly easier than having to photocopy etc. It's easier to just click and get as many copies of the voter list as you need, and therefore by local self-government, where people who care about systematization are employed, about voting lists, how elections are approaching in all of Serbia, changing people, bringing people, driving people from these places who have been doing this job for years and bringing some of your people who don't know anything, but they don't have to know anything but to print out the voter list and give it to activists on the ground. So, information technologies yes, but their abuse of information security, what you wrote in the bill of this law should really be implemented in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63060	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63061	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The polling list is not a secret document. The voter list is a document in which every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to insight and can check whether it is listed in the voter's list and, if not, ask to be entered. The Serbian Progressive Party has never dealt with any abuses related to the voter lists, simply because we do not need to commit any abuses, given the strength and strength of the SNS, which is led by our president, Aleksandr Vukic. What is true is that SNS members and activists are visiting all municipalities, cities, all local communities in Serbia, to talk to citizens, to explain to them what we have done, what the problems that have been encountered, what problems we have solved and to hear from the citizens what is still to be done, to make their lives better. That's what SNS does. I didn't understand this about moving the ruler and some changes in the election boards, but what Serbian citizens should know, though I think they do, but it's not bad to repeat it, the SNS has no majority anywhere in Serbia. Our laws are so well-conceived that in each election board of the smallest village in Serbia, the RIK majority of the members have opposition. So, the SNS will do anything, and they won't, and neither was our intention, we can't steal any choices. So there's not this ruler that we've moved up or down, brought, taken, etc., we've always won every election because it's what the people wanted. I believe that's the way it's gonna be in the next election. But it is not bad to mention it again, as counterpart Nemanja Sarovic said the other day, as we in the SNS allowed Boska Obradovic to cross the censorship in 2016. That's simply not true, because SNS doesn't have a majority in RIK, as most of us don't have on any election board. So in each election board, it is the opposition who has a majority and that is a very convincing majority compared to members belonging to the SNS. Yes, it's my proposal to my opposition colleagues, not to deal with these fabricated stories of voter lists and how it's caused someone's defeat or how it's caused someone's victory that he could or couldn't have a voter's list or an introduction to the voter's list. Any one of you who wants can gain insight into the voter's list, determine if it is listed in the voter's list, if it isn't, to sign in. It is the right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and there is no need for SNS to walk around Serbia with any voter lists. We are going through Serbia to tell the citizens what it is that we have done, what else we have to do, to listen to the citizens, to understand their problems, to see how we can solve these problems in the future. You'll admit, no government has ever done that before. The government has always praised itself and affirmed its successes and that's legitimate. But I think that the SNS has introduced a new rule into Serbia's political life, which is that we are self-critical, that we have the courage to say that some things we haven't done well enough, that we haven't solved some problems, and that we could solve them, and that we have the courage to have citizens tell us what our actions are not satisfied with so that we can correct our mistakes. We never said, that's what is often repeated here in the National Assembly, that the situation in any area of social life is ideal. It is not an ideal situation anywhere, but the situation is better in 2019 than it was in 2015, as in 2015 it was much better than in 2013. But we never claimed what very often comes as some kind of attack on us from SNS, we never claimed, we never said those phrases, that Europe has no alternative, we never said those phrases that the situation is ideal. Far from anything in Serbia is ideal or anywhere in the world, nor can it be ideal, but to try and work to make the situation better and in education, in education, in health, in agriculture and in all other areas of social life, even when it comes to information security, I think that the citizens of Serbia see it and that in the next elections they will properly evaluate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63062	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63063	The polling list is a secret document because only someone for themselves can make an insight into the polling list. I can see if I'm listed in the polling list based on the home number, but I can't see if my late neighbor is listed. So don't say anything that's not true. Next, you say you don't have a majority in RIK. So do you think it should be different except that a completely democratic election commission is formed based on the state of parliament and on what all the lists have to go to the elections. I guess it's democratic, I guess you don't have any objections to that. But it bothers you to mention Bosko Obradovic. So, yes, you introduced Boška Obradovica because Scott asked for it and that's why Bosko Obradovic became one, and his group joined the National Assembly and became MPs. It has nothing to do with most of the RIK. You were there to secure, remember, or to remind, 60 complaints were waiting in shock, 60 complaints, did you forget that night, were televised, were running conversations, and were deciding by these objections. CRTE representative, and you now want this CRTU and other NGOs to insert, that instead of RIK, they are instructing election committees and that they are giving electoral committees some certifications so that only your election committees can get that paper so that they can be in the polls. Then that's what I'm talking about last election and Bosko Obradovic. Just laugh, I'm telling you that this is 100 percent true. So, 60 complaints were and you were, the one from CRTE was writing, say, three objections to the same circumstances. You provided Bosca Obradovic in one polling post to get, I don't know, 70, 90% of the votes in New Belgrade. There you accepted the complaint from the CRTE, and the same objection was made for a polling post on Voždovac, there you did not accept because you did not prepare voters to vote for Boško Obradovic. Yes, you are Boška Obradovica and this second group of Ceda, Canak, Tadic, you brought them into the National Assembly and they had no censorship. Don't talk now, you'll win. You win, we've never been angry at citizens, we've never had any objections to the citizens, but don't abuse the fact that most of you are, that you can walk the voter list. Don't tell me it's legitimate. You're saying it's not true, so I'm on the phone, taking pictures of girls in my neighborhood going door to door with a ballot. When she told them and asked them what they were doing and explained what they were actually wearing, they ran to one side, the other side, scared the girls when I told them that someone had persuaded them to commit a crime. Please don't be realistic, let's try it, admit it once, say it, here, you can say -- here, we don't know that it happened, but we promise, we'll intervene with the ministry not to happen again if you claim that there was. Now, there's no one who looks at this assembly without knowing that he hasn't seen any advances with a ballot under his mouse and on the ballot list, they've been told who's out, who's not. We do not mind, colleague Martinovic, that activists go to the field, our activists do so, and that they go to the safe votes, to the members to call for votes, to go to the elections. No, we don't mind that, but we're against wearing a copy of the ballot, not speaking Spanish, very precise and clear. So, on the ground to go, to work as much as any party achieves, so much accomplishes. We've always done it, all the serious parties do it, but using, carrying the ballot on the ground is a serious abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63064	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica now has Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63065	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. There are a few things out here that I really can't agree with. First of all, as far as I know, training members of the electoral committees and for the next election will work exclusively on RIK, and anyone who wants to be involved in the process will be able to engage only by having the right to follow it. It is not true that any NGO, or CRTA, or Transparency, or CESID, or anyone else, will be able to instruct members of the election boards. The instruction, in order for the people to understand, means that members of the electoral committees are familiar with the legal and other regulations relating to the work of the electoral committees. That instruction will only be possible for RIK, anything else would be against the law. What you just said isn't true. Furthermore, if every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to see the voter list, so every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the document cannot be a secret. So it can't be a secret document... And who can see him? )......................................................................................................... So anyone can see it. If anyone can look into one document, then that document can't be classified. If anyone can make an insight into one document, then the document cannot be classified, the document is a public document, in which everyone can make an insight and ask to be entered in the voter list if it is not possible. As, on the other hand, any citizen of the Republic of Serbia can demand that one who no longer has voting rights in the Republic of Serbia, on a different basis, be deleted from the voter list. In that sense, I don't understand at all that observation of yours that it's some secret document. There's nothing on the ballot list that's secret. As far as the "door to door" campaign is concerned, from door to door, it is a campaign that eventually neither invented SNS nor SRS, it is a campaign, as far as I know, not even DS, it is a campaign designed in the United States and which was later transferred to a whole series of European countries, including the Republic of Serbia. That's what the SNS does, that's what the SRS does, I mean any serious political party that intends to participate in the elections. We don't have an election list in our hands. We don't go on election lists to talk to citizens. We knock on everyone's door and with every citizen of the Republic of Serbia who wants to open his door for us, we talk. I never said the SNS would win, you might win, and I'll congratulate you on that victory. I just said that we will do everything to win, whether we win or not, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will decide, and that is what you and I agree on. But it's not true, and I just have to act as president of the parliamentary group, we're not walking any voter lists around Serbia. Our activists knock on everyone's door and talk to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we don't need a voter list, as one big paper, absolutely. She'd just make it harder for us to work in the field.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63066	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63067	Okay, last time I took a picture of you wearing a voter's list, here's a public promise next time I'm gonna take their voter list, so I'm gonna get you to see what they're wearing, but I'm not going to talk about it anymore. But I'm glad that Mr. Martinovic just said that NGOs will not be instructing members of the election boards, if so, then you have changed something from the day before today. Mr. Martinovic, both ladies and gentlemen, I have read to you here, is currently not with me, the motion for a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent to RIK, where you imagine the Government, which is also absolutely illegal, the government orders the electoral commission, gives the text of the decision and in the signing of the president of the electoral commission just to sign it. Well, it says here there'll be two kinds of instructions. One for extraparliamentary parties, imagine that before the election is called, the other for parliamentary parties, also before the vote is called. For non-parliamentary parties, an instruction for election committees, the decision writes – an instruction will be given by NGOs who have been involved in elections for more than three years. Who's that? I have no idea, there's this line, and that instruction can be controlled by the RIK members by sitting there and watching them draw, instructing some future election committees. The second instruction is for parliamentary parties. E, parliamentary parties will also have to list some of their members of the election committee before the vote is called. They will be instructed by members of the working bodies formed by RIK in members of working bodies by municipalities, in working bodies there will be even former members of the election boards, if someone has estimated that they once did a good instruction. Mr. Martinovic, I'm going to make that motion for a decision for you. Here, Deputy President RIK, sits up next to the president, ask him if I'm right. Here, it's already a serious controversy in RIK about it. They had a round table in Novi Sad two days ago, they're going to Nis tomorrow, and they're taking part in the work of these NGOs, and they're doing it in a completely inappropriate and inappropriate way. First of all, how can it come to mind that before the election, he's making election committees, where does it say that? There's no basis in the law. If you have any need to change the law, you have a congregation majority, change the laws, don't step on the Constitution and the law, and because someone told you to include the CRTU, stuck, or I don't know what all these NGOs are like, and you just don't mind doing anything about it. This is the whole truth to you, Mr. Martinovic, if you don't believe it, you ask around.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63068	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Alexander Martinovic, please, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63069	Here, in order to avoid any confusion, point 6 is about the document of the working body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the last session formed the Working Group for the verification of the single polling list, in which, alongside the members of the Government and the Ministry, the participation will be taken by the CRTA and CESID, as well as by representatives of international institutions and bodies. So this is the only thing that applies to CRTU and CESID, therefore, that they will have the right to participate in the work of the Working Party for the verification of the single voter list. Now you're saying that we're courting some kind of out-of-work EU officials, I don't know exactly who you mean, it doesn't matter. We don't need to court anyone. The Serbian Progressive Party will do everything possible to make the next elections expected in March or April 2020 the most transparent elections ever held in the Republic of Serbia. So no one will have the opportunity to make any objection that it has been done to anyone, that any voice has been stolen or that any voice has been miscounted and so forth. So that is the goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why this Working Group is formed. You're wrong, and as far as the instructions are concerned, so that instruction will be performed exclusively by RIK, and you're not right about these working bodies. The working bodies are RIK's working bodies. These are not the working bodies of any municipality, any city or any local government. So every working body that's going to be formed is the RIK's working body. I repeat once again, I really don't understand what that phrase means to you – your election committees. There's no SNS on any of its election boards. On every election board you from the opposition are the majority and I don't mind, you say I have something against it. I don't. Great that it is, but then it would be good to explain to the citizens of Serbia, not only you, even at least you, should explain it to those who boycott the work of parliament, how it is possible for SNS to steal any elections in Serbia, any elections, republican, regional, local, presidential, and in each election committee, representatives of opposition parties have a convincing majority in relation to SNS members, whether they are members or deputies of the election boards. You have the same situation with RIK, always the opposition has the majority in both election committees and RIK and we have nothing against it, we just want the citizens of Serbia to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63070	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The Right to Replica, the Faith of Radeta and the Application if we can return to the subject and the amendment, not only to you, but to Martinovic, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63071	The subject is an amendment. Exactly nothing closer to explaining this amendment than this topic. So how is it imagined and how is it written in that decision that it is, why don't you tell your colleague Martinovic whether it is legal for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose any decision to the Republic of Election Commission? Well, the government can't stop RIK and there's nothing to do with RIK's work. Now, in that motion for a decision, what you said, that you wanted these choices to be transparent. How will you show transparency? Here's the decision, thank you, Philippe. Here's Martinovic. So, on the RIK site you will present the records from the polling post but only after processing them by the Statistics Office. Well, we don't want that. Here, fellow Martinovic, a direct record that comes from the field, let that record be put on the site at the moment. And then, of course, the Bureau of Statistics and the members of the RIK with the permanent composition of the electoral committees will make these logical adjustments if there are any. Logical correction means that someone there at the polling station, some president writes that 100 plus 50 plus 30 is, I don't know, 201, for example. It makes sense that you can correct that mathematical, mistake. But you, or not you, were members of the Election Commission closing in the last election, only members of the RIK from the government with those in Statistics and from there were bringing some data. This is the whole truth. So we say, yes, let it be transparent. But those six copies of the record, one comes to RIK, immediately go to the site, and then let the statistics and members of the RIK process it, let them correct it, possibly some logical mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63072	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's MP Dr. Martinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63073	The logs, as far as I know, immediately climb onto the door of a room where elections are held and election committees work. It is good that you have, Mrs Radeta, your proposals, how the electoral process should be improved in the Republic of Serbia. We can now relocate until tomorrow whether the government's proposals are better or your proposals are better, but in any case, this controversy between you and me, which is certainly not personal and not hostile, shows that the government and the opposition need to talk in order to reach a consensus on what is the minimum standard in the conduct of elections in the Republic of Serbia guaranteeing you who are currently in opposition and us who are currently in power that no one will be able to say that any harm has been done to him or that anyone has stolen the election. I think you should understand that. It is not disputed that you have your views and it is not disputed that you are criticising proposals from the Working Group, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia. But the purpose of this conversation and all the talks that have been held for three months between the government and the opposition in Serbia is to reach a consensus on what it is that guarantees that when the elections are over, no one will be able to say -- these elections are faked, the results are fixed, the results are wrong, etc. Why does it matter? So that no longer in Serbia can an atmosphere more like a civil war than a democratic state be repeated. We had such a situation in 2016, we had such a situation, which is even more amazing to agree with me, in 2017, two months here, members of various opposition parties, not yours, various supporters of Saša Jankovic and similar protested here in front of the National Assembly, claimed that the elections had been stolen, so Sasa Radulovic denied himself and said that Vucic had won completely legally, they continued to protest here in front of the National Assembly, they claimed that the elections had been stolen. Well, then Sasa Radulovic denied himself and said Vukic won completely legally. They continued to protest here in front of the National Assembly and when I asked them once – people, but what are you protesting against? Have you been stolen somewhere? Is there a mistake? Has anyone broken the law? No, we're protesting that Alexander Vukic won the election. It happened only in Serbia, that people who lost the election protested because someone else won, but not with one or two percent, but who received more than 55% of the voters who went to the polls. In every democratic state, every democratically conscious politician has nothing more to say than to give his hand and congratulate the winner. Here we were waiting for two months, our MPs from the SNS wanted to beat us with clubs, curse us, insult us in the most vulgar way possible whenever we entered or left the National Assembly because the supporters of DS, supporters of Vuk Jeremic, Saša Jankovic and so on, were dissatisfied with the victory of Aleksandr Vukić. The police did not react at the time, the police were very sober, very reasonable at the time, although the situation was very delicate and tense and could have happened, but fortunately there were no more serious incidents, but that no one would repeat such a situation, that anyone could suspect the legality and legitimacy of the election results, the SNS as the ruling party in Serbia agreed to have talks with all supporters and representatives of opposition parties who wanted to participate in this conversation in order to come to an agreement on what the choice after which no one, nor you, nor we, will be able to say – these elections were irregular, because the SNS did not want to be at any cost of the citizens' will. If the citizens want us to vote for the SNS, if the citizens of Serbia don't want us to vote for you, let them vote for Dragan Gilas, let them vote for Vuk Jeremic, but we want no one's voice stolen, we want everyone's vote to go to that list or that party they really gave to because we don't fear the choices, as I believe, neither do you. The elections are feared by those who are not here in parliament and who, because they know that these elections will lose, are looking for an excuse in advance not to participate in these elections. I think the citizens of Serbia understand very well that's exactly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63074	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word is "Verica Radet." Right on the line. Although I can see that you've agreed, we can move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63075	You, Mr. Martinovic, know perfectly well that, as Vucic said yesterday, Serbian radicals, we have never been in favour of any violent shift of power, that we have always respected the electoral will and that we are always in favour and this debate is in favour of correcting all anomalies so that elections are, as clear and clear as possible, and, in that sense, our members of the RIK are also working. A number of objections that our members have had are already in some, let's say, I don't even know if it's predicated, in some ways it'll be accepted, it's already accepted and it's accepted by the RIK. But let's be consistent with what you said earlier, rule out the Government of the Republic of Serbia, rule out NGOs. You want them to watch the election. Let them observe. We're against it. You have most, let them. You want them to observe RIK's work. No, we're against it, but let's. You have to shut them out of work. They can't work, they can sit on their hands like this, watch and record to whoever sent them to write what's wrong. They can't do anything there. I repeat, here is the motion for a decision. You said so yourself in the beginning: "Let us return this debate to the National Assembly, so that it may come, that it may come." Whoever won't, there's us here who will. Let's discuss all the details here and let's be you, who will eventually give some RIK guidelines, which is an autonomous body, but only from the National Assembly can get certain guidelines, changes of laws if necessary and so on. The government can't. It immediately puts a stain on those future elections, whatever they are. Here, ask Dejan Djurdjevic if you don't believe me. I guess Branko was, too. Here he is. As Dejan Djurdjevic felt, he didn't know for 30 seconds what he was going to say when a representative of a NGO two days ago in Novi Sad, when they were on a round table, Dejan Djurdjevic was running that round table, he said – I am not going to participate here because you RIK members are speaking with a because language, I only want to talk to those who speak the human language. Was it like that? So that's what happened. You want someone like that or any other, simply, he's an NGO, he can't participate in the election process, except to sit and watch where you let him go, and that he's part of that process, that they can hold instructions as planned for the extraparliamentary parties... Vanparliamentary parties? First of all, when the election is held, they're all extraparliamentary. Of course, parliament is in this session until the election of a new one, it is clear to me, but in this electoral sense we are all extraparliamentary because they all have the same rights and obligations, from registering the list to the final election result. So don't... Let's do it the way you talk, but let's get back here and the subject of the supervisory committees, not to talk about how N1 reports this one or that newspaper. Let's sit here, put it on the agenda, make arrangements, pick a supervisory board that will fit the power ratio in parliament. There's no greater democracy, you have to agree. Let the National Assembly, the MPs, do their work, and then you too, if someone pressures you or tells you – you haven't done it one way or the other, yes, gentlemen, we have done it all in the National Assembly, and you see why someone won't be in the National Assembly. We don't care about that at all. We want everything that is related to the electoral process, to the electoral actions until the election is called to end here, and from calling the elections that RIK is doing in a permanent composition which is and in an expanded which will be after the submission of the lists and then really everything will be transparent and in accordance with the law. When I was speaking as a parliamentary question about this, I don't know if you were here, colleague Martinovic, I told you to remember and I repeat now - if you don't accept our objections and if it stays like this, this will be why those who forced you to re-organize some groups after the next election and say this is illegal and illegal, and therefore after the election, they will walk you around the Assembly again, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63076	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63077	I really don't know who's gonna walk and where after the next election, I only know one thing. No one can win the people. This was also shown in the 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017 elections, and this was also shown in the case of elections for the Belgrade City Assembly 2018. So there is no Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, who can defeat the people. In that sense, we have no fears. I agree with you. As you can see, we have returned the debate on election conditions here to parliament. Thank you for participating in this dialogue. You thus show a high level of political awareness, but also awareness of the interests of the state. What I want to say and I really don't want to go into controversy with you about whether your or our proposals are better, until the election, there's still plenty of time and we'll talk about it, but because of the citizens of Serbia, and also to tell you that the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic will in the next period, I think for the longest time in a month, send a letter to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups to deliver their proposals for members of the National Assembly's supervisory body to oversee the implementation of the elections that will be held in 2020, so that your party, Mrs Radeta, too, will have the opportunity to make their proposals. Here, now I'm saying it as some kind of exclusive information. So you will have your representatives, and you will be able to participate very constructively in the work of this supervisory body. What is important for Serbian citizens to know and we in the SNS insist, in the 2012 elections, I have been speaking since 2012 because the SNS has won and taken responsibility for the country's leadership in these elections. So the 2012 elections, the 2014 elections, the 2016 elections, the 2017 elections were conducted according to the laws passed by those who are now boycotting parliament's work. They were implemented under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, under the Law on the Financing of Political Activities. These are the two key laws they are now complaining about, which they have passed. When they were in power these laws were excellent, no provision bothered them, everything was democratic, everything was European, everything was in line with the best possible European regulation. When they lost the elections and began to lose the elections from 2012 until 2017, they remembered that the Law on the Selection of MPs, which was passed in 2000, was passed by the DOS, and then the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, brought it to DS in 2011 and with a whole series of other regulations that they all made. You don't have any laws that we've passed or that's essentially changed during the SNS mandate, and that's what really hurts them the most. We defeated them by the rules that they prescribed themselves while they were winning those elections, and they were conquering you know how. The big question is whether or not they won. While the SRS was unique, we always had more MPs in those absolute numbers than DS. Is that right? We were always, purely mathematically, the winners of the election, but we weren't in a position to form a government because some other parties had rules of political combinations and formed a congregation majority. So we won them and then we just couldn't form power. When we managed to form power in 2012, then they realized, i.e. They began to seek justification for their election failures, and this now culminated in 2018 and 2019 to say – no law in Serbia relating to any election, no regulations relating to any election, no presidential, no republican, no local, none of this is good because the SNS wins these elections. I said this because Serbian citizens would understand that Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and all others were winning by the laws of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63078	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63079	We Serbian radicals are not ashamed of all their past successes in the election. There have been better and worse results, but we're not ashamed, and the futures we're not afraid of. We just want the electoral process to be such that it is not possible to steal any single vote from any single citizen, and for whom voters will vote, their will. Who better to explain their views and their political agenda to them, it's up to us who do politics, but it's also up to us to do everything we can to make sure that no shadow falls on this election process. According to what's going on so far, we're not sure that's how it's gonna be. So, we just want to solve in principle everything that can be solved and what needs to be solved before calling and before holding elections. As for the laws under which these elections are being held, firstly, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed on the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party in 2000, and absolutely all MPs voted in favour of the bill. Meanwhile, the yellow ones changed the law and made two major mistakes in the law. One mistake is allowing MPs to have mandates, so today we have what we have in the National Assembly. Another mistake is that the possibility was not left, i.e. the possibility of selecting MPs from the list by assessment and assessing who formed the list and who went to the polls with the list. Our proposal has been for a year and a change in the course of these two anomalies of this Law on Elections, because this would indeed contribute to a more democratic way, a more democratic way of electing MPs and tomorrow forming parliamentary groups. And I don't believe there's anyone here who doesn't have the same goal. So we need to be without vanity, to talk, to accept, if we say that we think it's good, for that and for that reason, to seriously consider it, so if it is, I told you the other day, if you feel bad about accepting something we suggested, get the government to propose it, we'll accept it. Because we think that we all have to make every effort to make sure that the next election is absolutely clean, as clean as possible. And as anyone goes, we'll see what luck is heroic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63080	Thank you. If you'll let me get out of the Rules of Procedure a little bit, let me just say that this was one of the better discussions during this term. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. (Not present. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63081	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, information security. At the moment, Sergey Trifunovic is in Valjevo, protesting "Krusik", against the security of "Krusik". A person who fled to America during the 1999 aggression. So she moved on to the aggressor side. I am also surprised that Dusan Teodorovic, who also lost his job in 1999 and to whom our country meant nothing, moved to the aggressor side, while neglecting his professorial duty, lost his job, but his betrayal was rewarded by Serbia's Turajlic by her rewarding him a few years after that and by the government's decision, the university's autonomy was strange, back to being a professor. Ladies and gentlemen, Yugoslav Cosic, I have his statement here. Here you see the N1 television header. Here's the "Si-Anne" sign. On this document, at N1 TV's memorandum, he made a statement that no decision was made to cover losses under the company's regular annual financial report "Adrija News" d.o.o. If this isn't forging official papers, then I don't know what it is? If one company's memo says the name of another firm, then it's for me forging the ID. Loss of six-and-a-half million euros, the decision has not been made, Director Jugoslav Cosic, a balance of success, minus 73 million 143 thousand dinars. The balance of failure, you're right. Let's move on. Yugoslavia Ćosic owns a firm called "Ki Conksen", but, behold, miracles, the company that owns it is not lost, but in a profit of 15m or about 12m euros, and then they make a decision, he and Sanja Cosic are probably connected, to schedule a profit. So, when it comes to losing to "Adriu News," that loss nobody wins, it's likely to stay with the state of Serbia. Interestingly, about this loss at memo N1 is a PIB address for N1 television, but the FIB is a completely different company, "Adrija News". So, pure forgeries, because N1 doesn't have PIB. On the other hand, the company "Ki Connected", with a profit, is being deployed, where he is the founder of 90%, so he is a lucky winner, 13 million 739 thousand 671 euros or 110 thousand euros, and in "Adrija News", he has a salary of four thousand euros, probably because he is making a loss of seven and a half million euros. This should be examined by our organs, because this television is precisely with this false alarmer, Mr. Obradovic, so this particular television is pushing inputs on how he's supposed to be an alarmer, how his rights have been violated, and in fact it's an open issue of information that is a state secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63082	According to the amendment, Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63083	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the Information Security Act has regulated security measures against security risks in information and communication systems, as well as competent authorities to implement protection measures. Modern technological development brings great opportunities, as well as new security challenges. That is why new ways of protection and answers in the area must be improved and sought. The importance of the Internet and digitisation contributes to the easier functioning of everyday services. That's why it's important to improve security on the Internet. Kids are the most sensitive group. It is necessary to protect children from possible abuses and harmful content. The preventive measures of education, working with children, children's workshops, parent education are important, which contributes to increasing safety and safety. Amendments to the law will contribute to a better integration of all relevant actors in the field of information security, the establishment of records, as well as a single system for the reception of incident information. All of this will contribute to the effectiveness of reporting, as well as to the full information of competent authorities that can participate in the removal of incidents. The key is capacity building, as well as timely and effective support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63084	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63085	Here's a little bit about the real security of data on two examples, where we still think this isn't perfectly done, not only in this law, but also in the ones I'm going to talk to. I'll mention the electronic log. We've talked more than once about an electronic diary, and now I'm not talking about this software that's been purchased past public procurement with only one bidder, etc., but essentially. An electronic log by the law as it exists. Many schools still don't have the Internet. Teachers in quite a number, not to mention more, the electronic log leads on their home computers. And where's the data protection? Where's the child data protection, child evaluations, etc? In his home with family members, a teacher inserts data into an electronic journal, which he normally writes on a paper in class, or in a classroom, and then brings it home. So, this is absolutely unprotected security, and this law is not going to help until the issue of computer security or laptops in schools is resolved, before the Internet is provided at every school. You know, if you're going to bring data from the house to put it on your home computer, there's no protection. It's also a matter of protection, and we're particularly interested in data, I guess, Mr. Djordjevic, that you should have that information or at least quite a bit of that information, when we talked about online reporting seasonal workers in agriculture, remember, back then we had a debate and we were arguing, we weren't basically against it, not now either, but we claimed it was simply not feasible. Now we ask you, there's been one season, and we haven't even asked you over there, because the law, I mean, was passed around at the end of spring, so there wasn't time maybe to apply until the end of last year, but this year there was absolutely enough time, space. Now we're interested, Minister, how many online applications were made by seasonal workers in agriculture, and how many, by your estimates, if you have them, regardless of the law, are any of those who were still working on that job black?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63086	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Do you want a replica or an amendment, Mr. Bogatinovic? Mr. Zarko Bogatinović, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63087	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, attacks on information systems can significantly endanger the functioning of the state, as was the case in Estonia since 2007, when cyber attacks were carried out on ICT systems of state authorities and financial institutions and when there was a blockade of electronic administration services, which is widely used in that country, as well as payment traffic. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, published under the document Use of Information and Communications Technologies in the Republic of Serbia, 99.8% of enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia use a computer in their business, and 99.8% of companies have internet connections, with 99.1% having a broadband internet connection. According to the same source, 98% of companies use electronic public administration services. On the other hand, 65% of households own a computer, 64% of households own internet connection, and 57.8% of households in the Republic of Serbia have broadband internet connection. Also, over 1.510.000,00 people use electronic public administration services, and over 1.450,000.00 bought or ordered goods or services via the Internet over the last year. According to data, the number of criminal offences reported in the area of high-tech crime is growing 50%. The attacks on state authorities' servers are becoming more and more frequent. Finally, the Information Security Act creates a basis for the establishment and application of a comprehensive framework in the area of information security. The law regulates measures to protect against security risks in ICT systems. And, of course, in voting day, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63088	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63089	Dear Mrs. Radeta, here I am, to tell you that we are fortunate, it has been shown that the Law on Simplified Employment in Seasonal Affairs has shown excellent results. It did not start until 1 January of this year and 25,606 applications were made in the first ten months, 700,000 working days and 211 million dinars were in receipt of the budget. It has been shown that besides the application, which is classic, on the desktop computer and on mobile phones, the introduction for those who are not, I say, trained in this way of reporting, that in cooperatives and certain places where it is envisaged, very close to those agricultural landowners where there are seasonal workers' appointments, where they can apply, there has been a great deal of interest, because 294 employers responded to that. I believe there will be more and more of them, and I believe that, given that even now there are seasonal jobs, by the end of the year there will be far more registered these workers. It speaks of the fact of the success of this law and that we are in thinking as well as some other occupations to drag into this system and that this simplified application is also for other professions and I think we will be very soon entering the assembly procedure, where we will propose to you MPs what jobs this will be able to expand in, and I believe that you will then vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63090	Thank you. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63091	Actually, just an additional question. The first part of the question, Minister, you answered and thank you, but the second part of the question is, have you done any analysis, do you know how much and despite what you've organized despite the law, have you sent any inspections? Do you know how many workers and how many hours of work have been done on black?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63092	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63093	You know that the ministry, i.e. the labour inspectorate, is doing continuous checks and that we have a continuous action called "Say no work on black", that compared to 2017 in 2018 we had 30% more supervision, in 2019, for now, we have 20% more supervision than at the same time last year. What makes me happy is that we have far fewer found workers working on black. There are still as long as there are workers working on black, we will try to fight that kind of grey economy. It certainly is one of the ways of rigorous controls, but the other is education and media campaign, which I think must be even stronger and must reach every worker, because the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, in fact, side by side against those employers who work in the gray zone and are on the side of those who protect workers, their rights or employers who work in accordance with the law. What's important is, I can't tell you how much in seasonal affairs, but when they do surveillance and I get that report once a week, about the number of people who are being monitored, there's about three to eight, nine percent of those who are black. In doing so, I need to draw attention to you that most of these inspections are just after reporting, or on a tip, where we are distracted where there is a possible urgency that there is a violation of the law, so in such circumstances this relationship moves between three and nine percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63094	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 19 by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63095	Thank you. First of all, we heard here today about this great world affair Wikilix, documents leaked from the US Embassy, American embassies everywhere in the world, a large number of documents, hundreds of thousands, in which Serbia is mentioned. There we could see that government ministers also come to the hearing at the US Embassy, that some of the ministers apologize at the US Embassy in relation to their rhetoric on certain issues related to the US, that some of the actions of the ruling parties are justified, that some compromises are being made regarding the KIM issue, which will involve independence, etc. These were documents, I think, from 2011. After that, as we could hear here that we had a major change of government in 2012, when those yellows went into the past, the advances, the rescuers, etc. were also able to see the impact of the US Embassy on the events in Serbia. So, the American ambassador directly participated in the assembly of this Parliament, i.e. in assembling calls on this parliament because on the election night he gave the order that two lists that did not have 5%, which had no censorship, enter the Assembly and form parliamentary groups here. So, the American ambassador ordered, the advances carried out. The full continuity exists on issues of relations with the United States, their exhibits in Serbia by DS and SNS. Change is just personal. The Serbian Progressive Party, in proposals for the budget of all these seven years, has funded the work of NGOs, which we could see from these documents, from our experience, from the October 5th mafia coup, which are foreign agents in Serbia, they are financed in part from Serbia's budget. After the organisation, they are making some events in Belgrade to support the i.e. speak of a genocide in Srebrenica, which supports Kosovo's independence, being organised by the Mirdita festival, the promotion of Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade. This is all financed with the SNS' consent from Serbia's budget. So these are facts, and what are we going to talk about later about the impact of foreign services in Serbia? We're funding their exhibits here from the budget. So what's this about? Absolute continuity, if there is no improvement in some segments between Serbia and the North Atlantic Pact, exists between DS and SNS. The NATO Pact and NATO Office continues to be asked about everything in Serbia and the region. Also, the SNS signed the IPAP, SOFA, agreements with the NATO Pact, which envisions diplomatic status and status for NATO soldiers in Serbia as not foreseen by the Troika Pact for Hitler's solidite troops in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. A dramatic example of data abuse is that the SNS has allowed one SNS satellite party, called the Serbian Right, to access the list of users, i.e. recipients of social assistance in the Medvedja municipality and which was thus used brutally for pre-election campaign purposes. So people have come completely illegal to this list, no one has responded, no response has been made to the Commissioner for Information and Personal Data Protection and no one has been processed. Same thing about all these affairs we could hear about today, about Dragan Gilas. So, all advances know what whoever stole, how he used his mandates in the local, republican government, and there's no process against him at all, except that he's no longer in power by SNS was rewarded and became president of the basketball alliance as SNS. So let's first see what reality is like here before we start talking about some fiction and fairy tales and we boast about our progress in any of these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63096	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63097	What's the reality? That's always a good question. Let's deal with it a little bit. When someone says that SNS is engaged in Euro-Atlantic integration, and so it is said, and that there is some continuity with DS, it specifically says to explain to people who are trying to cheat, and it does not tell them honestly, that SNS is pushing the country into NATO, that SNS wants Serbia to become a full member of the NATO Pact, which is everything, just not true. Let's remind ourselves, there's a state-wide decision, completely solid, strong, and it's never moved a millimeter, that this country is a military neutral state. Militaryly neutral, to remind ourselves of what that means. That means it's not blocked to either side, not to the other side, not to the third, not to any side. What did the SNS do about it? The Serbian Progressive Party has built this definition, the state's definition into laws. As the parliamentary majority, representing the SNS, we voted in favour of laws directly concerning the issue of defence, among other things, and we built military neutrality into laws, and it is no longer a declarative definition that you can bind to someone else. For us, it is a principled attitude, a position that is as firm as anything this congregation can decide, and ask whether you may think or not about the importance of the Assembly in our political system and whether there is a more important place when it comes to decisions that the whole state is behind. War neutrality. Let's remind ourselves what that means. In practice, this country has a proper co-operation with different armies. This country also has joint military exercises with countries that belong to the so-called Political west, but also with the Russian Federation. The other day we are talking here that at this point in Serbia, joint military exercises by the Serbian Army and the Russian Federation's air-cosmic forces are being realized. To make things more interesting or better, if you will, as part of those exercises in Serbia, and this is where a system like S-400 is demonstrated. What does it mean now that someone gets up and says – you want to become a member of the NATO Pact? That he knows better and he's smarter than the complete air-cosmic forces of the Russian Federation, who have no idea who they came to and who they're working with together. That maybe he's a little smarter, a little more promuter, or I don't know what he's talking about, that he's not, Vladimir Putin. Let's get serious. So, they know very well all our friends in the world, and thank God we have lots and lots and lots more than we had, when those who really pushed the country into Euro-Atlantic integration were able to ask a question and in this country they decided... (President: Thank you. I'm done. They know who our friends are, what Serbia is, how reliable a partner is, and because it is principled, it is firm in its specifics, including military neutrality, which is why Serbia today is someone everyone trusts, so they want to work with it. Among other things, this is why Serbia is now receiving a system such as the "Pancir S" PVO system and can host a system like S-400 here. When was that possible at the time of these Gilas, Jeremiah or anyone else? When would that be possible? That's a question for those who raised this issue. If it were possible with anyone else without a SNS or anyone behind Alexander Vukic's politics? You would never.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63098	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63099	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic, please, before you begin to invent at least listen to what I said. If you haven't heard, then you can read the stenogram and see exactly what I said. I didn't mention Euro-Atlantic integration at any point. The facts are, therefore, as everyone knows, that a representative of the NATO Pact is sitting at the General Staff. The fact is that the assembly meeting, in which the majority had SNS, also voted the IPAP agreement. War neutrality. All right, I support it, but then you must have the same archaic towards everyone, if that neutrality, which has been proclaimed, is true. It cannot be diplomatic status that there are for NATO soldiers, that they have all possible benefits in Serbia, and that members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis were not able, for reasons known, to grant diplomatic status. I'll remind you, these people were saving the lives of our citizens during the floods in Obrenovac, aiding in the mass fires that we had here, always being there during the great disasters, the natural disasters that hit Serbia, and the NATO Alliance, whose representative is sitting in the General Staff, brought him in the Democrats, you kept him, bombed us, killed us in 78 days more than 2.5 thousand people. We can't have that same archaic towards them and Russia, according to our historical allies and to the military coalition that has committed aggression on our country, occupied us part of the territory. That, first of all, and secondly, you know, the SRS has also suggested that another such centre, such as the Niš centre, is formed in Vojvodina territory, has gathered more than 30,000 signatures from Serbian citizens to form one such centre in Vojvodina. The Progressive majority didn't want to talk about it. Before you start putting some words in my mouth, something I haven't said, I'd like you to listen a little more or hear more or explore and see what the facts of Serbia and NATO's co-operation are, and the exercises Serbia has with the NATO Pact, there are more than 100 per year, with the NATO Pact countries, and just about 18 or 19 years of exercises involving Russian Federation soldiers. These are also concrete facts. The difference is that on TV you can only see exercises with Russia, and you can't see exercises with the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63100	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Dr. Orlic. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63101	When someone says a definition that is pure continuity with the DS, which refers to military alliances, it is a continuity in their Euro-Atlantic integration. And then I get up and say, "That's slander." It's a lie. Serbia is once again a military neutral country. It's a good thing we agree that's the way it should be. We really think it is for the state the smartest. For the state, it is also the smartest that has maximum good co-operation with all military alliances to the extent that it is part of our interests, our sovereign state and national interests. Which means what? If there's a chance that we can accomplish something that's good for us, through concrete cooperation with any military alliance, but to the extent that it's good for us, we need to do it. It's a simple logic, which refers to anything else. As if you asked the question – whether we should trade with someone, or whether we should vote in a certain way, by keeping in mind what our interest is in international forums or anywhere. Of course, we should always do that, and as long as we cool our heads, we act wisely and rationally. We can realize your interests. What is the IPA B or any other agreement, to what extent does this violate the definition of military neutrality? Well, it doesn't break at all, because that's how it is, and then there wouldn't even be any stairs above the IPA B agreement until someone becomes a member of the military alliance, and of course there's a clear difference. The second thing, those who mentioned that any kind of agreement at the expense of the Republic of Serbia did not read it, did not see that under such agreements we are also getting money for what our needs are. He remembers, for example, how terrible accidents happen when they leave us yellow, for example, a catastrophic situation in some military warehouses, and because the situation is catastrophic, and there is no means to resuscitate in the right way, then he risks any damage or haearium. Thanks to these agreements, we can use money, other people's money that we don't normally have, to eliminate that kind of problem in time, and we do that. That's what the whole world does. If it wasn't for the whole world, would there be programs like the Partnership for Peace that the Russian Federation's military is involved in alongside the NATO Pact countries? Well, they wouldn't exist, of course. It's all clear and normal stuff. What I can't get past, that anyone feels the need to remind us of the NATO bombing issue. We're the last to be safe in this world to be reminded of something like that. Who introduced it as a state marking memory of these events? Was there anyone before Alexander Wolfich in this country that thought of it and that he did it that way? There is never anyone and the moment when he did it personally - do we have it every year, do we apply ourselves in the right way each year to the memory of these painful events and not just those painful events, but literally everything that has been done to the Serbian people in the territory of the former Yugoslavia in any place and in any way? Anyone before Alexander Wolf and SNS? Never anyone. Whether we are in this principle and consistent and we show proper pitetism to these questions, I would say we are showing. So if someone wants to remind them of these facts, feel free to remind them, but once again, let them remind those who never had the courage to deal with these issues because they were courting those who did us harm. There are those of us who remember and thus show the attitude that a state must show that takes care of itself and of its dignity. You don't need to remind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63102	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63103	First of all, there is one illusion among SNS members and other ruling parties in Serbia, so that it can sit on two chairs. It is impossible to co-operate with the EU, be in the process of European integration and at the same time develop the best possible relations with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. Those two things just can't go together. As much as we want to achieve it, it is simply impossible not only because of Serbia, but also because of any country in the world where it is so forbidden. We need to define ourselves. The degree of co-operation Serbia has with NATO today, i.e. With the North Atlantic Pact, no regrets with the Russian Federation. The issue of granting diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre should be a moral issue, that we show first of all the gratitude to these people specifically who have helped us here, but also the gratitude of the Russian Federation for everything it has done for Serbia. I remind you, if it hadn't been for Russia, the UN Security Council would have voted in a resolution declaring Serbia a genocide state. Had it not been for Russia, Kosovo would have long become a member of the UN. Russia is our traditional historical ally, an honest ally with which we co-operate without any political pressure. We cannot say the same about the EU and the NATO Pact. I remind you that all Eastern European countries in which socialism was once first had to become members of the NATO Pact in order to become members of the EU, and when it was a European perspective, i.e. It no longer exists today, lost importance, then only members of the NATO Pact, as is the case with Albania and Montenegro. It is a reality, not because of some need for security, but only because some countries show a marriage, an expression of loyalty to the NATO Pact, to that particular occupier and to be together in the front against Russia. We know today, both you and I, that neither Romania nor Bulgaria meet European standards on any matter. Both Romania and Bulgaria and other EU members only because they became members of the NATO Pact and all for reasons for NATO's pact to go to the Black Sea. Today it is a reality in Serbia, and in accordance with this we need to think about alternatives in this path, plan B, the future of our country, the security of our country and our citizens, and we will at no time be able to achieve this by working with NATO the pact in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63104	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic reported on the amendment. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63105	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. A few notes relating to this amendment and to the explanation of this amendment. First of all, when it is said that the Republic of Serbia is funded by NGOs, I don't think a respected colleague takes care of one thing. According to the Budgetary System Act, a budget item that exists not only in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also in the AP Vojvodina budget and exists in the budget of each unit of local self-government in Serbia, it is called – donations to NGOs. It's a formulation from the Budgetary System Act. These NGOs aren't the NGOs you were talking about. That's one thing. The second thing, you were talking about the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis and your proposal to form a similar centre for the territory of Vojvodina. What I want to tell you and what the citizens of Serbia need to know, the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis also covers the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Third, you have not submitted a formal-legal correct proposal in the Vojvodina Assembly concerning the formation of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Vojvodina. Nevertheless, this initiative of yours, not a proposal, but an initiative, was held at the meeting of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, where SNS MPs voted neither against nor participated in the debate on your initiative, not on the proposal, but on initiatives for two reasons. The first reason was that the initiative was not in line with the AP Vojvodina Assembly's Rules of Procedure. That's what citizens are supposed to say. The second thing, more importantly, was that your initiative was politically non-serious, because its essence was - we are instigating with the government of the AP Vojvodina, to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is asking the Government of the Russian Federation whether it wants to form a Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre on the territory of Vojvodina. As for NATO, or concrete KFOR, Serbs in KIM, as well as Serbs in Croatia, as well as Serbs in Montenegro, the force of our words here from Belgrade will not help. You must keep an eye on your esteemed colleague, KFOR is present at KIM in accordance with Resolution 1244. In Resolution 1244, and to remind you it is the only one, except for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is the only legal link between the Republic of Serbia and KIM as its component. In Resolution 1244, the letter reads, I now quote to you – that KFOR will come to KIM as an international military force with the essential participation of NATO. It says in Resolution 1244, with the essential participation of NATO, and for this Resolution was also voted by a representative of the Russian Federation in the Security Council and for this Resolution 1244, we Serbs stick so tightly to it because there are provisions guaranteeing our sovereignty and territorial integrity at KIM. But, please, or I suggest to you, you can't take Resolution 1244 to a piece, so what suits us will be called, and what we possibly don't like, we'll say, here, you advances are working with the NATO Pact, as said and our dear colleague Orlic, we're working with the NATO Pact, we who were the victims of the bombing just like you, we who defended the Republic of Serbia, we sat in the same government, and now you're telling us, you're working with the NATO Pact. I'm just telling you, you have to take care of what we Serbs want, and what political reality is and what it says in Resolution 1244. Here, if we go in line, what would we Serbs want, and you and we, and ask any Serb from Belgrade, from Cetinje, from Banja Luka, what would you like? Serbia's army on KIM? It makes perfect sense. That's what we'd like. Is that possible at this point? It's not possible. Why? In 1999, we retired from KIM by signing the Kumanian Agreement. The signing of the Kumanovo Agreement was a prerequisite for the adoption of Resolution 1244, and the resolution reads that an international KFOR military mission will be present at KIM with the essential participation of NATO. At first, there were also Russian forces in KFOR, which, however, were relatively quickly withdrawn from the KIM. They're facts, but there's no need for the fact that you're accusing us of continuing the same policy as DS. So wait, are we destroying our weapons like DS did or are we getting the most modern weapons? Are we doing military exercises with the Russian Federation or was it the Ministry of Defense while Dragan Sutanovac was the minister? Are the latest planes, helicopters, tanks, combat vehicles from the Russian Federation now arriving, or was it at the time of Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac? Well, at the time of Alexander Wolf, that's what you do. One more thing to tell you, you may be a future lawyer or you are already a lawyer, it doesn't matter, there is no higher level of co-operation with the Russian Federation than what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing right now and what the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic does. So, the legal theory, the higher degree of co-operation with a foreign state, and even with the Russian Federation, does not know, except in one case, which is that the Republic of Serbia makes a decision to become a federal unit of the Russian Federation. He can't do more than that. So more than what Alexander Vucic is doing, more than what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, when it comes to co-operation with the Russian Federation, is simply not legally possible if Serbia is to be a sovereign and independent state. If you're asking me for my personal opinion, I wouldn't want us to be a federal unit in America, nor would I want us to be a federal unit in the Russian Federation. Well done to the Americans and to all honours and to the Russians, but I would like for Serbia to remain a sovereign and free country. When you are sovereign and free, then you can make your own decisions regarding the future of your people. Whenever you have an older brother above you, whatever his name is, you're no longer free. Part of the SNS is free Serbia, no one else, but Serbia that will lead its policy, which will look at the world with its Serbian eyes and think with its Serbian head and no one else. We've always made a mistake in history, when we looked at the world with other people's eyes, when we ran other people's politics, and when we thought of someone else's head, not our own.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-28-0.u63106	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Since the amendment was about ICT and the security of information and communication technologies, we went on the topic of NATO, on relations with the Russian Federation, KIM. I know it's your theme and NATO and the ODKB, and I respect that, but I'm asking you to get back on the agenda. We can only suggest a round table on this subject. It is an important political issue, but we're way out of this topic. So we'll move on. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. ) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Alexander Seselj: It's not right. He's giving a lecture here for 10 minutes and you won't let him answer. It's really not right. I appreciate everything, you know, I've been giving replicas for five minutes. Mr. Seselj, honestly, then we can talk about it by tomorrow. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will continue its work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 6:10 p.m.]]
