ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-1.u65316	Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Prime Ministers and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Mayor of Belgrade, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Republic of Belarus, His Excellency Alexander Grigorevich Lukashenko. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself, His Excellency Alexander Grigorevich Lukashenko, President of the Republic of Belarus. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the delegation of the Republic of Belarus, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia who attend today's Special Session. I now call upon His Excellency, Mr Alexander Grigorevich Lukashenko, President of the Republic of Belarus, to address us. Here you go, Excellency.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-1.u65317	Dear friends, before I say a few words from this high court, I want to warn all of you that I am an ex-legislator and, before my first presidential election, I was a member of the Parliament for almost five years. That's why I know your bread, I've had enough of it, so watch out for me. It's a joke. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for your opportunity to perform with this high-level tribune of Serbia's main legislative body, the National Assembly. As I just said, I have a special relationship with Parliament because my state-owned activity has started right since I was elected to the Supreme Council of the Republic of Belarus. Parliament certainly plays an important role in the life of society and this is an instrument of implementing citizens' interests. In addition to law-making, Parliament also plays an important role in building bridges between states. National MPs are ambassadors of national diplomacy, actively participate in the development of international co-operation and in strengthening good neighbourly ties. A campaign for elections for the National Assembly is about to begin in Serbia. I'd like it very much, and I want you to pass this important exam successfully in front of your people. Since I'm not someone else's man for you Serbs, for everyone who lives in this holy country and as a former MP, I just want to ask you as an older brother, if you want, don't fight each other in Serbia. It's the only leverage. Serbia is the only foundation, the only solid ground left after the collapse of the former large state. Maybe someone won't agree that it was a big country, but we looked at it like that to the Soviet Union and we envied your development, an advanced economy. Because of your society, the order in society that has always existed in your country, you have then achieved a lot and sometimes you look only at it with jealousy. It's simple, even sometimes with an enemy relationship between a single government. So I ask you to be one whole, because Serbia and Belarus have a lot of opponents, enemies. They're around us, there's plenty of them, and that's why we need to calm down, to think about this holy land, about the people, to preserve the land and the people, and to conduct your choices with dignity. I really expect us to activate work contacts when the composition of the Belarusian parliament is restored. He was elected two weeks ago, a new composition of the Belarusian parliament, and is soon moving forward. Soon I am meeting with my parliament to thank my old associates and to welcome the new ones. That's the tradition with us. Today, at a meeting with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, I said I had come to my close friends, a country with which we are connected. It's really those feelings that I, like our entire delegation, have every time we're in Belgrade. But today's visit has special meaning to me. First, this year has been 25 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Belarus and Serbia. It wasn't a simple historical path. Our main achievement is the ability to host our own country, to determine our own direction of development that corresponds to the spirit of time and state interests. Secondly, 20 years ago, I visited Belgrade, a different Belgrade, to express my support for Belarus's brotherly Serbian people. Then, during NATO's cruel, inhuman aggression against the sovereign Yugoslavia, thousands of people died who were not guilty for nothing. As they told me today, you still feel the consequences of this war because of the bombing, when people die today because of it, who are not guilty for nothing, young people and children. It is another confirmation of that cruel period, the wild one that brought into this holy land its enemies. At those moments we were beside you and supported you in various ways and after that war. Belarus is always on Serbia's side on issues of territorial integrity and sovereignty. Our position has been unchanged for many years and will be that way in the future. It is precisely human solidarity, the compassion that comes from the heart, that form cultural and spiritual unity, which is the basis of Belarus-Serbian relations. It's our great legacy to preserve and pass on to our children and grandchildren. Serbs, like Belarusians, know what war is, not from the story, what the devastating consequences of this war and the losses are. In 2019 we celebrated 75 years of our countries' liberation from Nazism, Belarus and Yugoslavia. Today, when there are almost no living witnesses to that terrible tragedy, every year there are fewer, it is very important now to preserve the historical memory of those heroes of war and of innocent victims. That's what we need to do for security and for the future of us, Europe and the entire planet. Unfortunately, today we see tensions rising in relations between countries. Global security is decreasing, regional conflicts are increasing. That is why we should advocate resolving any dispute exclusively peacefully, based on norms and international law. Of course, every time both Serbia and Belarus, we call on countries and peoples, their leaders of various states, those strong in the world, let's, on the basis of international law, work out everything peacefully. But there's no such thing as international law. Everyone's acting in a plan that's stronger. I'm beginning to wonder if a new distribution of territory has begun on our planet. We all know what this leads to. Belarus has launched an initiative to restore broad dialogue from the Atlantic to Vladivostok to strengthen confidence, security and co-operation measures. I think Serbia should be one of the countries interested in considering this issue. Yugoslavia was eventually one of the founders of the Unclassified Movement. This organization has made it possible for countries so-called. The third world to appear on the international arena, to hear their voice among major states. Unfortunately, today's Unclassified Movement, from my point of view, exists purely formally and has no influence on large countries. Here we are today, if the big players can't agree, that doesn't mean that we, small and medium-states, should sit here with our hands cut and wait until one of the great ones solves our fate. I think they should hear our voice. Together we will be able to do much more for the prosperity of our countries and peoples, for peace and stability. Dear friends, the traditional friendship of the Belarusian and Serbian people, the positive history of bilateral relations contributes to the co-operation of our countries in all areas, in politics, trade, industry, agriculture, high technologies and innovation. Over the years of independence, we have achieved a lot of results in the development of national economies, we have managed to restore contacts between our companies and as a result we see now Belarusian tractors being mounted in Serbia, as well as buses that have received consumer recognition. We are waiting for new projects that can provide us with a serious place on the Balkan market and come out with these products on the EU market. We welcome that Serbia has signed a recent Free Trade Zone Agreement with the Eurasian Economic Union. We witnessed this process. The benefits are obvious. Your business has been given the right to free trade in the vast continent. Now you have the opportunity to export without any restrictions, there is a wide list of goods, to enter this market the same way through Belarus. Members of your government and Mr. Vukic today spoke a lot about the development of our relations. We agreed that those companies that work successfully in the Euro-Asian area, especially in Belarus, such as your MP Karic or Rico, will help to place Serbian products on the huge Euro-Asian Union market. We even agreed on certain products specifically. Thanks to Karic, who promised to lend a loan to export certain goods to the Euro-Asian Union market. So step by step we need to develop, create joint ventures and work. We should move, work more actively, make ministers more active. If we make a deal, we have to do it. Then we will achieve the results necessarily, because besides material, besides money, and money is important in today's world, there's something bigger that we have, both you and we, that they don't have others, which is our love, our brotherly relations, our friendship, mutual assistance, and it's been tested throughout history. They don't have it, we have it, and we'll make money. We just have to wish it out and move forward, produce great competitive products. Yugoslavs, Serbs have always been able to do that. The visa-free regime, clear logistics, direct air transport create conditions for expanding business contacts. It will certainly strengthen the Serbian economy, open up new opportunities for further development. Today during the Economic Forum, contracts for the delivery of 100m dollars of Belarusian products have been signed. A number of documents on co-operation in science, education and innovation have also been signed. This is a good example for those who are doubting or just thinking about how they will work in our country. During my long political career, I met a lot of skeptics who once visited our country completely changed their relationship to Belarus. We invite each and every one of you, including those who are not present here today, to discover for themselves their Belarus, cordial, hospitable, active, responsible, rich in their cultural and historical heritage, which in many ways resembles you. A real Slovenian country, warm and very close to Serbia. I assure you that each of you will feel, as at home, in our country and never be disappointed. Dear friends, finding myself in this beautiful historic place, I cannot help but say a few words about one question, according to my information, it is something being prepared in the Serbian parliament. Recently, parliamentary elections have been held in Belarus, believe me, as far as democracy and freedom are concerned during the elections, it is simply impossible to make it bigger, we cannot organise elections even better. We have worked so hard to please both our sponsors and fans in the East and the EU, and what have we got as a result? Some were thrilled with the results of our elections, and others said, since the opposition did not enter parliament, it is an accident, it means it is bad. So it wasn't democratic elections. So you have dictatorship, no freedom. Honorable MPs, that's bullshit. I was never there at all, I thought, let it pass without me, that no one would rebuke me afterwards. We were really trying to please the West. They came back with yellow paper again, aged. It's all been resolved in advance. They signed the objection - bad. Why bad? Because there is no opposition. I was forced to answer them honestly, I wanted it to be three, five members of the opposition in parliament, they wouldn't solve anything, but how can I bring them in if they only got 3.5% of the votes. Maximum of two people, maybe 4% of the votes they got. How do we bring them to parliament, even in a democratic way, as they ask? I couldn't get my hands on them. I want you to know that I became president of the opposition, I wasn't in power then, I came from the opposition, constructive opposition, I didn't walk the streets, I didn't crash anything in the city, I was about to create something. With me came those who are now at the head of different parties, directions, including the opposition. The accident is that our opposition only works on election day, in the end of the week, two before the election. What kind of people will choose such an opposition? And our living opposition from getting a grand is American funds and so on. The people know it all. They don't work anywhere, but they live in nice houses, they drive a nice car, they're married or they're married for the fifth time, it's all for the cost, and everything's fine. People wonder, where? How such an opposition can gain the trust of the people. It is absolutely true that people have supported those who work, who benefit people, and we have our own monetary system of choice. So the parties can highlight the bids, companies, some groups of people can gather together, collect signatures. So, a thousand signatures and you can run. That's why it's hard to tell who the opposition is, and who isn't, we'll see from the results of their work in parliament. I am fully convinced that these are people who are loyal to their country and their work. I am sure that most of our parliament, that such people who are focused on work, are not to believe the voices that say the Belarusians have some opposition. If Wolf wants to turn the world around, could he do it? Of course not, as Lukashenko can't. We can't do that, we don't have that kind of resources, I get it great, but the problem is that someone doesn't like the policy that's being implemented in Belarus. What have we been seeing lately? When the war began in Ukraine, so in Europe, many woke up and saw Belarus in the centre of Europe. Let's work with Belarus somehow. They made sure they could cooperate with Belarus. In time, Americans in the EU made a mistake when they imposed sanctions on us, when they pressured us, then they realized it after a while, and they were just looking for a good reason to end the situation. As far as international relations are concerned, we have a peaceful attitude and it is acceptable for the world. The situation has changed. We are now trying to establish good relations with the EU. We are against the Bregzit and the EU's collapse. I just said, during talks with Alexander Vukic that you can impose sanctions on me, they can call me the last dictator to say he's against the EU. No, that's not true. The European Union should be preserved because it is one of the backdrops of our planet, such as China, part of Russia, it is large countries and systems and the entire global system that works with this foundation, almost 30 countries are there and what, how do we take down that system? It's all going down. That is why I am in favour of preserving, that there is an EU, after all, these are various centres of power and small countries as we can rely on them. I think there are smart and good people living on the planet who realize that our planet shouldn't be destroyed, if it collapses, we'll all be at the bottom, all of us, and whether we're big or small, we should save our planet. When we say Serbia is a small country, it is humiliating. Serbia is a great country because there lives a wise, brave, great nation on a holy earth. I ask you, I demand of you, before the Presidential elections, as I address you, save this holy land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-1.u65318	I thank His Excellency, Mr Alexander Grigorevich Lukashenko, President of the Republic of Belarus for his address. I conclude the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
