ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56141	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56142	I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Finance Minister Sinishi Malo and Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, when and if at all at the Kragujeva factory Fiat will start producing a new model, because this is the only way to die very upset at the Fiat factory, who are aware that this sign of the century's investment is going to the contrary because everything that has been done so far since 2012, here seven years has gone to harm the Republic of Serbia? How do you explain that and make it clear to the citizens? In fact, the initiative of the then Dosmanian Yellow Authority, Mladjan Dinkic, was during a contract with Fiat who had his own hidden clauses, which we spoke about in public, which is that the state gave 12,000 euros in subsidies for each job, that the town of Kragujevac released Fiat payments of around 120 million for local infrastructure, that the state of Serbia did not collect any single dinar of profit tax in Fiat, but Fiat was already as a privileged foreign company. The question now arises when we have already invested about a billion and 200 million or who knows how much more, and this is not known, in a foreign company where the state owns 33% of the shares, not asking Serbian citizens, you continue to do so. What is the fate of a factory where the management of Italy's Fiat itself says that without this new model they cannot expect breakthroughs on one market, and according to Fiat's director for Serbia, the new model will cost, its promotion, construction and market appearance of hundreds of millions of euros. The question is raised, ladies and gentlemen, which is why I am asking this question both Anna Brnabic and Aleksandra Vukic and Sinisa Malo, who will pay for it and therefore more Serbia's state to pay for a foreign company that instead of producing 300,000 500L models, as was said and pompous was announced in 2012, now has a production of only 80,000 with uncertain export opportunities. I will remind you that I have said – 50 times if I have to ask Putin to export Fiat's model to the Russian market. It is simply not possible under the foreign trade agreement that we have with the Russian Federation, because only one part of that car is a pump or, as it is already called, is produced in Serbia, all other components of foreign producers. By the way, it's very important that we remind the public, last year Fiat abolished the third shift, fired 700 workers, salaries that workers sought after the strike were minimally increased but with uncertainty what would continue with them. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, MPs that any of the employees in Fiat can, even though they have so-called. Permanently receiving himself to afford to enter into a loan to solve the housing issue. Of course not because uncertainty is great. You all who follow the automotive industry around the world know that every year here in Belgrade at world fairs, all the car companies come out of the so-called. Restalling or some new car models. We have paid over a billion euros for what we have paid, but I say up to a billion and 200m euros, only the state of Serbia has received nothing. Don't ask these statistics, and I don't want that to be answered, as GDP and exports have increased. Please, Fiat Serbia only pays for the achieved even profit minimally compared to how many states it deprives from the budget. Therefore, it is a strategic issue, not only for the worker and for the people of Kragujevac, because the city has completely sank. Of that enthusiasm, since the arrival of the Italians, of all that, the components that also left Serbia after the decrease in production remained only fine words, and Fiat as one such investment seems to lead to a break-in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56143	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56144	I thank the chairman. As I have so far, I will ask certain questions, specifically concerning the citizens of Southeast Serbia. The question I am now asking is about the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry, and it is specifically about the border crossing that has been turned over, which is already very current and is located in the part of the municipality of Knjižec, Miničevo and Novo Korito, which is said in our area, the crossing is called Kadibogaz. Otherwise, the initiative was launched in 1991, and in 2007, the then president and the assembly entered the process to put the transition into office. In 2014, Minister Antic and the President of the Republic of Bulgaria's Assembly officially opened a cornerstone on July 28th to build the Kadibogaz crossing in part of Serbia-Bulgaria's border. In 1920, some were launched by the Kadibogaz fair. It is a meeting in Kadibogaz where some of the people from Bulgaria, Serbia, and that part of Serbia, are coming from July 19th to 21st, where there were nearly 500 thousand people present. Because of all this and the interest and the Bulgarian side, as I said earlier where the president of the Bulgarian Parliament and Minister Antic opened on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, they opened the foundation stone and were expected to put the border crossing into operation very quickly. Otherwise, on our part, on the side where the village of Novo Korito and Minicheva is all done, it takes 200 meters just to do the roads of Serbia of our country and Bulgaria in 2009 to make the concept of how it should be done. Otherwise, in our area where the village of Novo Korito there is border police, a checkpoint of border police, and from there it takes a hundred meters to provide both water and sewerage and all that is needed for telecommunications. So, on our side of that 200 meters, we should do it, otherwise it's located near the magistrate's road, so that's 15 kilometers from Minibogaz to the New Court, and I expect, my question is specifically related, when it's going to be in the process of putting that crossing of Kadibogaz into operation to build and the necessary sides, both on our part and on the Bulgarian side, are already signed protocols and I think it was at government meetings and we expect, we who live there, to expect it to be done, which is said very quickly in the next period. Otherwise, for all of us who live there in the east of Serbia and the municipalities of Kljažec, and the surrounding municipality of Svrljig, and even to Nis, the municipality of Belograček is on the Bulgarian side, is the brotherly municipality of Kljaževec, now there will be 50 years of their brotherhood so that it is really important for all of us who live there to open this border crossing, that these people can work, that they can pass, because those who live in eastern Serbia, in particular Književec, Svrljig, Sokobanja, Bolvac and Nis, will certainly have a great view of this transition, because more people, Bulgarian tourists, will come to us, in our neighborhoods where our quality goods and our tourist capacities will be provided, for example, there is the capacity of the Old Mountain, which is very much visited by Bulgarian tourists, so that once again, the importance of our people have been in our own country, where we have come to be, where we know that the importance of the importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56145	Thank you. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56146	I thank the chairman. My question today is to the Ministry of Health, or Minister Zlatibor Loncar. This question came to me from citizens through social networks and concerns patients who have suffered from multiple sclerosis. For the introduction, for the dear colleagues here and for the citizens, I had to prepare one brief piece of information about this disease. So multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune disease where our immune system recognizes parts of the central nervous system that has an envelope around the nerves as foreign organisms. This creates antibodies against its own central nervous system which damages the myelin shell and causes permanent damage, or neurological failures. Multiple sclerosis occurs most often in younger people over a period of between 20 and 40 years, i.e. during the most productive period of our lives, much more often in women than in men. It seems to me that somewhere I've found information that even two-thirds of the patients are actually women and very rarely can be discovered in children. Basically, it affects all citizens without exception, with what I say, most often affects those who are between the ages of 20 and 40. There are four types of multiple sclerosis, some of which are characterized by stages of deterioration and stabilisation, and others can be aggressive and quickly lead to disability. The treatment of multiple sclerosis consists of relapsing therapy, i.e. the use of medications that modify its natural flow and symptomatic therapy. The first treatment was used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, the first therapy that was administered was interferon beta 1B, and today there are 14 of these medicines that are being administered worldwide and their number is constantly increasing. It is important to say that multiple sclerosis therapy individualized medications are not equally effective and safe in different people with this disease, hence the need for new medicines. Today’s medicines can be roughly divided into moderately effective and highly effective. The treatment has changed over the last 20 years since the disease for which there has never been a single cure today, as I have already said, of 14 registered original drugs. Patients who apply therapy from the start of the disease have a very different course and reach a significantly smaller neurological deficit that does not reflect their functionality, end schools, remain employed, start up families, remain active members of society with personal, family and professional affirmation. It seems important to say that today, in Serbia, about 8,000 of our fellow citizens suffer from multiple sclerosis. If the first postulate treatment is as early as possible starting therapy, and the second postulate is an individual approach to treatment and this means that therapy is chosen according to the patient, characteristics of his disease and multiple sclerosis activities. A decision to choose therapy should be made by a neurologist, respecting these principles and consulting a patient. It is very important that the patient understands what treatment can accomplish, i.e. how effective it is, as well as whether it exists and what the risks of treatment are. In Serbia, treatment is only available for 10% of patients, and only four medicines are intended for mild and initial forms of disease. The RFZO site does not highlight the criteria for initiating therapy, and there is no waiting list. These days, I don't know what caused the president of the state has talked very often about embezzled money in the field of health, and it seems to me that this is the right time to ask ourselves, we ask Minister Loncar whether there is a chance that all 14 medicines that are registered, which are original, which can prevent further progression of this disease, are available to all patients in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56147	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56148	My question goes to the address of the Prime Minister, the Foreign Ministry, but since in this country the President of the Republic decides even on the sewerage in Borca, this issue and this issue cannot go without him. So, formally, the issue goes to the address of the Prime Minister and SMEs. As for Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic's statements from a few days ago, more precisely than Monday 24 June, this year, means a few days ago when, by fluctuating his favorite topic, more than once mentioned and dragged, Minister Dacic may now have said more directly than before, I will now quote it – Serbia cannot recognise Kosovo's independence throughout his territory. It's not a compromise. So, this statement by Serbian government officials and the first Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, or the Serbian Government, especially when we fit in on many of the previous months by our officials, including the President of the Republic and here in the Assembly when he was coming and holding exposés, I would say, a problematic trend, where Serbia is going and offering moths for something that is not a compromise, but, all of which, and if accepted, is a painful and humiliating solution, of course, and an unconstitutional solution, and in this way the issue is being raised, and this proposal is, in fact, devalued both the bad and unfavourable position of the state of Serbia on the KIM. If it wasn't an established case or the opinion of one at least high-ranking official, it shows a few days before the statement by Ivica Dacic and Aleksandar Vukic himself, who said on his visit to Belarus the following – it is a desire for many that Serbia recognises Kosovo's independence without getting anything in return. The first parts of the statement and the Ivica Dacic and Alexander Vukic are undeniable, but this supplement that is already regularly going out of that statement is, indeed, the least said cause suspicion. It's about like this, not about, but literally, we're not going to recognise Kosovo's independence, so a decimal or a cartoon, if we don't get something in return, and it repeats itself. I am asking the leaders of this country who are leading politics in the state of Serbia, at this point, whether we like it or not, what compensation is in the name of which they are willing to recognise the independence of Cosmeta. Every language and logical analysis shows that when you say it this way – we will not, unless you actually say it – we will, we will recognise Kosovo's independence, if you give us, or offer compensation in terms of some demarcation or I don't know what else or third, perhaps the Community of Serb municipalities, which is an unfulfilled obligation from a few years ago of Kosovo, or the Brussels side in the negotiations. Thus, such a way of introducing, such a formulation of attitude, degrades politics and the position of the Serbian state. It is not an invitation to a compromise that we all hold in principle, which we all want and wish for, but in fact, I said, the collapse of already unfavourable positions of the Serbian state and a loud and clear expression of attitude and willingness to recognise Kosovo's independence under a condition, we do not know exactly yet, officially, which and what compensations. As I said several times, not just now, it's unacceptable, unconstitutional and counterproductive, right from the point of view, even if the state policy wants to get some compensation, then that's not how it's offered as a market, a grocery store, and of course it's not going to get what it expects. Dear citizens, dear citizens, tomorrow is Vidovdan and they say that on Vidovdan it is usually better and clearer to see, but it is not needed Vidovdan, it does not require any special power of vision to understand how much this policy is, how bad and counterproductive such offers are. I'm asking you to keep an eye on that until it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56149	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56150	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I am asking the public prosecutor's office a question concerning the article. 305 and 321. Criminal Code - are there elements of criminal responsibility for blocking the building of the President of the Republic and preventing freedom of movement, as well as attempts to prevent the entry of the President of the State of Aleksandr Vukic and MPs when entering parliament, as well as media fiction, bribery and threats of the worst species that are increasingly common? I ask if, during a previous period of former authorities, it has been impossible or attempted to prevent the entry into the National Assembly, as is the case with the current president? What can we expect from those who today use violence on every occasion as a means of accounting with their political inexperience, from those who do not exceed anything for the sake of their political goals? After pulling signs into downtown Belgrade, creating riots and chaos around the city, violent attempts to enter institutions, such as the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, the National Assembly, entering the RTS building and threatening journalists, we see that this was another in a series of new well-designed opposition procedures to prevent the president of the state and the MPs from freely entering parliament and doing their job. In whose direction and according to whose recipe? I'm here asking if the prosecution reacted to the obvious application of violent methods? The question arises -- what else can the citizens of Serbia expect from those who have no scruples, who do not contaminate from anything, in front of those who think they can do what they think they can do? Is that all they have to offer the people? Until today we have neither heard nor seen what their plan and programme is, what they offer Serbia. They weren't interested in dealing with problems, they were the ones who left the country's problems. I'm asking a question -- did somebody stop them at the time of their government and defend them freely to come to the congregation, for what the people have chosen us all here, and for what are we all responsible for the people? Maybe they're not responsible to the people, maybe that's how they imagine the future of the country. Is such a course, and has such a thing brought any country better and prosperity? Every time Serbia steps out, we take an important step, a good result in a sphere, whether in a state, national sense, economic or international plan, as an unwritten rule, there is a need to reduce the importance of all of this, from those who dragged and pushed Serbia into a state of hopelessness and instability by 2012. It's like someone's not answering all this, like someone needs to get us back at a time when Serbia was weak, unstable, powerless. And the closer we get, the closer we get to European countries, the stronger that need is. That's why they shouldn't be angry at us, angry at themselves, which is why citizens don't do for everything they haven't done when they're in a position to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56151	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Messengers. No one has delivered. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COMMUNAL MILICATION LAW under Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend Branko Ruzic and Minister of State Administration and local self-government with associates. You have received a proposal for a bill submitted by the Government, you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice of the State Administration and the Local Self-Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for the followers of the group, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, relatively to the number of MPs and members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the proposal for a municipal militia law. Does Proposer Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (Yes) The word is Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56152	I thank the chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a proposal for a law on the municipal militia, which is fundamentally aimed at education of the municipal militia in municipalities, but of course continues to improve their work in favour of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The possibility to introduce the municipal militia in municipalities is estimated to have seen significant difficulties in maintaining the municipal order and ensuring effective enforcement of the laws and acts within the jurisdiction of the municipality. The organisation of this service and its operation in the municipality will help to detect, prevent, breach of the communal order, but also prevent the operation. In this way, municipalities will be able to take responsibility for municipal and second order in the municipality in co-operation with police, as well as for the safe and orderly environment of their residents in local communities. It is important to mention another important reason for making these changes, which is a change in the name of this service. Namely, the Police Law found that the right to use the term "police", has exclusively the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. This is exactly what more than half of the provisions of the applicable Law on the Communist Police require, because it is Article 77. The law on police adopted last year and found that the laws establishing organisational forms with the word "police" in their name must comply with this law within three years of its entry into force. As a result, you have before you a proposal for a new law, the Law on the Communist Militia, which does not change the essential solutions of the existing law, but certainly significantly improves and aligns them with new regulations. I am obliged to explain that we also had an alternative solution to the name of this service. When we looked at parallel practices with countries in the environment, and these are communal directors. This name is responsible for these countries, given that they have authority by the municipal directors, almost or very similar to the municipal inspectors, however, in order to give the right answer to the question – which name is appropriate for this service, we had to consider the powers it has in accordance with our positive legal regulations. The so far-called municipal police have been carried out on the basis of part of police powers applied by communal police officers - the use of means of coercion, physical strength, foxes, spray with an ardent fact and an official stick, which is a fundamental difference compared to, for example, an inspector or some other service that exists in municipalities and cities. Since we retain some of the police powers, the name of the service should continue to reflect their main characteristics, so it is suggested that the name be a municipal militia, which as a historical or traditional term or name indicates that these police powers clearly demonstrate this link of this service with citizens, because it is essential to care that every man's life takes place in a particular environment. Given that the current law allowed cities to form municipal police, municipalities, relations of municipal administrations did not have that possibility, and citizens' demands for improving the municipal order through the work of this service have arrived from all parts of Serbia, especially in municipalities where citizens see this service operating in the city, and have not been able to have in their municipality. The municipalities will now be able to educate the municipal militia if they have financial space and the possibility of hiring perpetrators. Also, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, which you voted here last year, two or more municipalities will be able to educate a common municipal militia or trust the doing of jobs to a neighboring city that already has a municipal militia. Since the municipal police, after the adoption of this law of the municipal militia, have been operating in the city of Belgrade for ten years, but of course in other cities, I consider it necessary for citizens to present the effects of their work for the community. The municipal police in Belgrade are the largest service in Serbia, so it is indicative that we look at some of the most significant data on the conduct of this service. In only last year, the municipal police of the city of Belgrade formed a total of about 124,000 items. They responded to nearly 60,000 calls from citizens via Beoko service. They had almost 40,000 e-infringement orders for illegal parking and over 40,000 for urban transportation without a paid ticket. More than 14,000 warnings were given in situations where actions could produce a criminal offence. They were active in all events specific to the city of Belgrade, such as Open Heart Street, broken particles in the square of the Republic, Belgrade Marathon, concerts, cultural and other events. The amendments to the law are supported by the city of Belgrade so that the municipal militia can be equally effective not only in the city of Belgrade, but also in the city municipalities and with the aim of protecting citizens from the boast of any kind, whether it is illegal parking, loud music, waste disposal outside the cans, illegal taxis and the like. In this way, all citizens of Belgrade and other municipalities across Serbia will exercise their right to live in municipal order. Dear People's MPs, allow me to point out the specific improvements, or solutions we offer and propose. Therefore, the provisions concerning support for other organisational forms in the local self-government unit have been improved, we encourage joint action aimed at the benefit of citizens through mutual information, exchange of information, joint action, and joint use of funds, devices and equipment. For example, the municipal militia will assist local public services and businesses, e.g. a construction inspection when it is necessary to close an illegal construction site or, for example, An environmental inspector who's trying to prevent some pollution. It is a practice in almost all European countries, because these are local issues. In the context of the municipal militia business, we have also added jobs to control the application of the law governing the use of state symbols, except in relation to state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units, which fills the legal gap, because it was not regulated to monitor the use of state symbols in private, sports and other facilities. It also regulates the treatment of minors, so a number of municipal militia officers must pass an exam for the treatment of minors. Two new powers are introduced – stopping and reviewing the vehicle in accordance with the Law on transport of passengers in road transport, which will be used most in cases of unauthorized departure or unloading of land, kicking, waste and other material, control of illegal taxis of vehicles and others, as well as gathering notices to detect violations of their perpetrators. What is also significant, members of the municipal militia will be enabled to work in a civilian exclusively on the written orders of the chief of the municipal militia and only for tasks under the jurisdiction of the municipal militia. Working in civil society will allow for the establishment of municipal order, especially in areas of illegal public land occupation, illegal sales, illegal taxi transport, as well as noises in catering facilities. We are all aware that the work in uniform has shown insufficient efficiency in all situations, because as soon as the offenders spot a vehicle or a uniform face, they move away from the scene, cover up the offence, which has prevented the municipal police from sanctioning such a violation. Communal militiamen will be able to record evidence of a communal violation and thus prove any disturbance of the municipal order, such as parking on pedestrian crossings, tram tracks or in yellow ribbons, waste of garbage, playing loud music and other municipal violations. In addition to this, the recording will document only the conduct of the municipal militiamen. What is also important is that all offenders will have to act on the orders of a municipal militiaman, which has not been the case so far. The communal militia officer will be able to write a misdemeanor order, and the new law defines fines for a person of 10,000 dinars. If he pays them in eight days it'll be twice as much, so 5,000. If that person finds it not wrong, the court will take the matter into account. Over the next three years, any local self-government that has a municipal militia will self-determin the appearance and color of a uniform that should contain local specificities, which will differ from a police uniform. The communal militia will be educated at the level of municipalities as part of the municipal or city administration, and what is important is that a provision has been abolished so far that the number of municipal militiamen is determined by the criteria that every 5,000 inhabitants are subject to a municipal militia. In parallel with the paper at work, it is important to note that we have paid great attention to the professionalization of this service. We propose stricter criteria for the employment of municipal militants in terms of psychophysical ability, education, passed a test for the municipal militiar, but also conditions that there are no security obstacles to the performance of the job. In fact, it means that no one will be admitted against whom any action has been initiated or has been legally convicted of acts prosecuted by official duty or punished for violations of public order and peace with elements of violence, as well as for violations in the area of regulations governing the procurement, holding and carrying of ammunition and weapons. This security check concerns already employed workers in this service. The new law allows faster admission to labour in the municipal militia of members of the MUP who are more than qualified to carry out their jobs and apply the authority of the municipal militia on the ground, with the obligation to pass the theoretical part of the expert examination. What is also a proposal that is to strengthen internal control as a special organisational unit in the community militia. The service will aim to internally control the work of municipal militiamen and other employees in the municipal militia. This service will punish any municipal militia officer who violates the law or the rules of service. It is certainly important to note that the adoption of this law does not in any way constitute an obligation for units of local self-government, but only the right and the possibility. Therefore, there is no obligation to form a municipal militia, unless, of course, they have no needs or resources, but the possibility is given to those who, on the other hand, have, by establishing this service, to improve the protection of the municipal and second order on their territory and to further contribute to raising the quality of life of their fellow citizens and to protecting property. In the budgets of municipalities and cities that want to use the right to educate the municipal militia under this law, additional funds should be provided for education and the start of the work of the municipal militia, including means of obtaining uniforms, labels and equipment for work, as well as for training and training of municipal militias. The amount of these funds will depend primarily on the identification of units of local self-government in relation to the number of people of the municipal militia. The exercise of the right to education of the municipal militia in local self-government units is ensured in accordance with financial regulations, as well as regulations governing the maximum number of employees in local self-government units. The introduction of a municipal militia can expect increased budget revenues from the collection of fines for the offence, as well as direct positive budgetary savings effects, which can be achieved by effective operation of the municipal militia. Finally, I would take the opportunity to thank the interior ministry, the city of Belgrade, but, of course, all the other units of local self-government at the support and all the others who, during the public debate, contributed to one quality view of the situation and needs and to come up with a bill that will indeed correspond with the needs of citizens and citizens in all local communities, and I think that if this law is adopted, it will contribute significantly to the better maintenance of the municipal order in all municipalities and cities across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56153	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56154	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an extremely important law before us that, in the opinion of the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, will improve the work and security of our municipalities. We have been talking in the Union of Duke Hungarians for years about the need for the municipal militia to be educated in municipalities and we are extremely pleased that by adopting this law we will have this opportunity. After the parliamentary elections, in 2016, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians signed a coalition agreement with the Serbian Progressive Party and part of this coalition agreement is also the possibility of achieving the municipal militias at the site. This part of the coalition agreement refers to local self-government and specifically says the amendments to the Law on the Communist Police will allow the education of municipal police in municipalities as well. The bill provides for the possibility of a municipal militia being introduced in municipalities, established on the basis of an assessment that significant difficulties in maintaining the communal order and ensuring effective enforcement of laws and other regulations and acts have been observed in the current functioning of municipalities. As we have heard from Mr. Minister, the organisation of this service and its functioning in the municipalities will contribute to the detection of violations of the municipal order and to preventive action in preventing these violations. In this way, municipalities are allowed to take over and realise their own share of responsibility for municipal and second order in the municipality in co-operation with police and other entities. In addition to the introduction of the possibility of establishing a municipal militia and in municipalities, the bill also provides for the possibility that two or more units of local self-government can educate the common municipal militia or that the municipality may, by contract with a city or another municipality, ensure the operation of a municipal militia on its territory. Instead of the former term "communal police", the term "communal militia" is introduced, the minister explained in detail why, since the right to use the police name has exclusively the Ministry of Defence, which is prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Local self-government units will educate the municipal militia as an internal organisation unit in the formation of a single body of municipal, or city administrations and administrations organised for each area. That unit can't have less than three utility mills, which is also good. The bill states that the activities of the municipal militia will be carried out by unformed municipal militias. Furthermore - extremely, municipal militia operations can be carried out by municipal militias without an official uniform with markings, according to a written order from the chief of the municipal militia. Mr. Minister also talked about why that is. In addition to the powers laid down in the current Law on the Communist Police, these are warnings, oral orders, identity checks, bringing, examination of persons and objects, temporary confiscation of cases, video surveillance and use of means of coercion, physical forces, etc., the proposal for a law on municipal militia extends the powers and that calling, stopping, looking at persons, objects and vehicles, seeking notice, and forces are added to the coercion by hand with a demanding fact. We believe that these extended powers are needed and, of course, we of the Duke Hungarian Union absolutely support it. As regards the establishment of a working relationship, the rights and responsibilities of municipal militias' labour relations shall be subject to the rules governing the rights and responsibilities of employees in the local self-government unit, in accordance with which the proper representation of members of national minorities is ensured. This is also extremely important for us, because a lot of local self-government, a large number of members of national minorities live, so we have to take care of that and, of course, this bill also takes care of that. In addition to the conditions regulated by those regulations, municipal militias must meet specific conditions, have the psycho-physical capacity needed to carry out municipal militia operations, that there are no safety disturbances to carry out jobs, that they have passed a test for a municipal millier and have acquired at least a secondary education in a four-year period, at least one year of work experience in the profession. Exceptionally, a professional soldier can be accepted in a working relationship by taking over from the Serbian Army and a police officer in the status of an authorised official taking over from the MUP, which is quite normal. To implement this law, there is no need to provide funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as the budgets of municipalities and cities that want to exercise this right, to educate the municipal militia, require additional funding for education and the start of the operation of the municipal militia. Of course, there is a need to include the means of uniform, label, equipment for work, as well as the training and training of these communal milliers. The amount of these funds will depend primarily on the definition of local self-government in terms of the number of municipal militias. The municipalities and cities that did not have municipal police did not anticipate, of course, the budget for the current year, the funds for these intentions, but since the possibility of establishing a municipal militia is being introduced, only after the entry into force of this law, which will be these months, but there is time this year, or early July, but there is time this year for the funds to be planned into the budget for the following year. All local self-governments who want to introduce this will have plenty of time and will have the opportunity to do so. The communal militia is important because they ensure the exercise of the authority of the local self-government unit in areas, i.e. issues of municipal activity, environmental protection, people, goods and security, maintain order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public buildings. It is extremely important that the municipal militia will provide assistance to other management bodies, as well as to companies, organisations and institutions which, under the law, or the general act of the unit of local self-government, decide in certain rights of citizens, legal entities and other parties, and performers of municipal activity, when, according to the assessment of the authorised organisation, there are assumptions that the implementation of their executive decision will not be possible without the presence of these municipal militiars. Of course, SVM MPs will support the draft legislation on the municipal militia in the voting day. We believe that this possibility is important to all local self-government and, of course, in these local self-governments, where we have a mayor, we will try to introduce this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56155	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56156	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Ruzic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important law on the municipal militia, which the city of Belgrade has put forward as a proposal, and I hope that in a few days we will announce it to a large majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that this bill will have, when it begins to be implemented, a very positive connotation and very positive effects, which is most important for ordinary citizens, which is also the focus and the government itself of the Republic of Serbia, us as representatives of the majority in parliament, respecting the communal order and increasing the security of all citizens. I must, before I begin to speak and focus on the very proposal for a municipal militia law, say something about this being only one part of the comprehensive policy and implementation of the Belgrade Development Strategy, which was established in 2014 when the new government headed by then Mayor Sinish Mali, Goran Vesic, who was then the manager, and now Deputy Mayor of the City of Belgrade, established a new development policy, building the city of Belgrade and reaching the goal of making Belgrade a real tourist, economic, cultural, sports leader, not only in the region of the Western Balkan countries, but in the region of Southeast Europe. I must also say that in the past five years, much has been done on the development of the city of Belgrade, primarily on those things that have been completely destroyed between 2008 and 2012, and the functioning of work, efficiency, the efficiency of public and municipal enterprises in the city of Belgrade and all of those aspects of the efficiency of the city's administration, that is, the service that is needed to operate almost perfectly in order for the citizens of Belgrade to be more satisfied in this city, which has about two million inhabitants, to live a life worth living in a capital of the largest country in this region. I consider it a People's MP that the city's government has done a lot of things on all issues, I would particularly point out the issues of building Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has become a city of buffers in the past few years, a city that is rapidly being built and has several hundred construction sites, which is being implemented by one of the largest projects in all of Europe. This is “Belgrade on Water”. The project has more than three billion euros. It was also a signal to foreign investors and domestic investors that Belgrade would become the actual one tourist and business capital of the region. In addition to this project, many other projects, construction projects, infrastructures are being restored, streets are being taken care of, traffic operations are being arranged, walking sites are being created. As someone who's a local patriot, for generations my people have been from this town, he's proud and happy about it. Because generations, my parents and those behind them remember some parts of Belgrade that aren't dozens, and I remember it, for decades they've been taking care of and leaving to be the mockery of a beautiful city like this. In the past few years, one responsible government, one new leadership, when it takes over the initiative and when it knows what it wants, has a clear vision and strategy for the development of such a big city, we come to these results that we have such beautiful facilities built in the part of Savala, so in "Belgrade on Water". It is no longer the gain of drug users, petty crime, prostitution and all the bad that has been happening here in the past decades, but it is, in fact, now one of the most beautiful parts of Belgrade, and not only Belgrade, but one of the most beautiful parts of this part of Europe. I have to mention because of the criticisms we have today, which we had, especially the city government, in the previous period, when it comes to "Belgrade on water", that some other cities, let's say, I'll just say, were built in Washington a year ago and there's a similar project and it's called "Washington on water", which is very, very similar to our "Belgrade on Water", except that we have towers, we have more buildings, and they went to another variant, lower buildings and hotels that are not located in such high towers. In any case, it is a new spirit, a new energy that gives Belgrade momentum and momentum to be a more real, more real business and tourist leader of the region. That's why in the previous year we have a drastic increase in tourists from all over the world and definitely Belgrade is a capital that is developing very dynamically, which represents one huge economic potential. What is this proposal for a municipal militia law, how does it now have to do with the development of Belgrade? For one simple reason, if there is no municipal order, then there is no capital, then there is no development. For what reason? When a tourist lands at Nikola Tesla Airport, when an investor lands at Nikola Tesla Airport, so what does he see first? Look how clean our city is, get to know the taxi service first, the people who do the taxi service. When they come to Belgrade, when they come to the city centre or to New Belgrade, the first thing they see is what's the municipal order, what's the purity, whether there's a public order in the city or not. These are the first impressions these people have when they come and many come. In previous years, many have come, of course, for the first time to invest here, to see this beautiful city and, most importantly, to spend money here, to sleep in our hotels and hostels, to have lunch in our restaurants, and thus to spend money, to fill the budget and, of course, to encourage our small economy, our restaurant sector, our hotel industry, to be even stronger, to be even more competitive, and to those who in the past few years very much invest in our city. I will remind you that in Belgrade a few years ago we have such chains, such as Meriot Court Yard, such as Hilton, such as Radison Blue and many hotels that are world chains. Not to mention that in "Belgrade on Water" there will be "Sent Ridges" which is perhaps the best, most qualitative hotel chain in the whole world. What does that tell us? It is saying that the government of the Republic of Serbia, that the city administration, that the people leading the city of Belgrade, implementing the vision and idea of President Aleksandr Vukic, has made this city as a modern, developed city, but a city in which there is order of each kind and we will all try to see that there is also a municipal order. Without that order, there's no way to attract as much investment as possible, there's no way to attract more tourists than we have now. What is also important to point out and to thank in particular the Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Stefanovic, who warmly supported the bill's proposal, who supported with his team the draft of this law, in order not only to ensure that Serbia as a whole, but also Belgrade as the capital, is safer, that people who come from the side, who invest here in the city of Belgrade, see our sights, that they are safer and safer, but also that citizens of Belgrade are safer, safer and focused on the City Administration, that the city of Belgrade, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking care of their security and the order that is needed, in order for our system to function in the best possible way. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the municipal militia, I believe that the implementation of this law will improve the very perception of our country by primarily our citizens here in Belgrade, which is most important to us, but also to all others, and there are many, almost hundreds of thousands of people on a daily basis coming here to Belgrade, see how Belgrade works well and quality. It is also very important that a kind of decentralisation is carried out in this way, which, when it comes to the municipal militia, is transferred to local self-government. So they're being transferred to municipalities and there's no more what's very, very important for our economy, but also for the efficiency of the state administration and administration, this time the city administration of Belgrade and the municipal administrations, which is that they're being tripled. That someone through some analysis 20 or 25 years ago says and hardens -- one municipal militiaman to 5,000 citizens. No, this is completely one opposite logic. There will be municipal militias as much as municipal, local self-government estimates that it should comply with the highest and best interests of citizens who live there and that is the essence of good management, that is, the essence of good governance, and what the city government in Belgrade wants to do and what it is focused on 24 hours a day. They're great people, and we can all see how hard they work for us here living in Belgrade or those coming to Belgrade to get better. Not only are they better at communal services, be better at social protection, be better at their business environment, be better at their business environment for business development, for young people, for their start-ups, for the launch of private initiatives, for this to be really one smart city, a modern city, a well-organized city, in which everyone will have a chance to develop. It is most important that after five years we have reached that level that everyone in Belgrade has a chance, whether he was born in Belgrade, whether he came to Belgrade from Surdulica, or from Presevo, or from Novi Pazar, or from any other place, or came from BiH, from Banja Luka, Slovenia, Montenegro, has the same chance to live here, to work, to be respected and what is most important, to be safe. We are interested in living that the more people come and work here in Belgrade and all of Serbia, to provide them with conditions to invest their capital, to provide them with conditions to live here and to make their life comfortable and comfortable and thus improve, to speed up our budget, to come up with fresh money and new capital, so that we can do even better, even more dynamic what we've been doing for the past few years, to build a hard infrastructure, to build new kilometers of highways, to build schools, hospitals and create an ambience as we have done yesterday. I cannot miss the opportunity to say that 102 new work contracts were signed yesterday for those who graduated from the Faculty of Medicine at the University and for 158 young people, medical technicians, who will remain in Serbia, who will tie their lives to staying in Serbia, to those who are our country's future. That is with these 10 billion euros, which the president said, which are planned as a new investment cycle, it is precisely a precondition for the quantum leap Serbia will make in the coming years. This is the most important thing for both this government and this majority in parliament and President Vukic - jobs. Yesterday, as far as we can see, 260 new jobs in the public sector, but of course, in order to open new jobs in the public sector, we have to open even more jobs in the private sector, so we build Belgrade on water, so we engage our construction operation, so we build highways, so we build bridges, so we attract hoteliers and biggest chains and biggest companies, so we make IT hubs, and technology parks, invest in education and science. It's a vision, it's a strategy, it's a leadership, and what we're doing to solve a couple of excelleans of political issues, and we're dedicated to regional co-operation, we're committed to dialogue, and we're focused primarily on Serbia achieving, fulfilling, fulfilling, its own national interests, and these national interests will be achieved primarily and primarily on the concept of our economic development. I also can't miss the chance to say that we had a 4.1% growth last year. We are another country in Europe at the level of economic growth. Investments have exceeded foreign direct 3.3 billion euros and we hope in this year that we have more and more and such and are predictive. Lots of investments. Every day investors come from all over the world and it's not an accident. That's because we're leading one balanced foreign policy, which we're a respected partner, which is that we're not focused 100% on one side, which is not exclusive and that we're a country where we see ourselves working hard and hard to create the best possible environment for economic development. That is why this proposal for a law on the municipal militia aims to introduce order, because without the communal order we will be attractive to investment, we will be attractive to life, but we want to be a modern European city modelled by Paris, to orderly cities in Italy, Germany. That's our goal. That Belgrade is developing in this way, one city in which all those interested in the region, who will come here, who will invest, will naturally fertilise their capital in our country. It is about the image itself and what we want our country to become and in any case we will create even better conditions for new construction sites, for new jobs, for new buffers, and I can only support on behalf of the SDPS City Administration, the city government, what we say here, city fathers, people who are as valuable as Goran Vesic and his entire team in the city of Belgrade, to work harder on the development plan of our city, because these results are visible. We have plenty of room for promotion, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly will be open to co-operation in the sense that we are adopting such a legal framework, such a legislative regulation that will contribute to development. We, finally in our country after ten years of stagnation, after ten years of work, have something called serious development and I end up, respected chairman, by continuing to be our policy, that we will continue to build, rebuild the streets, build new things, and those who come to destroy it, those who threaten the workers of private companies on construction sites, remain and will certainly remain at the wasteland of history, because Belgrade citizens recognise what is worth, recognize what work is and recognize that policy that aims to improve their living conditions and create opportunities for their well-being in the city of Belgrade. So in the voting day, we will support this bill and certainly all of us will vote in favour of this, and in the coming period we will also support every initiative that aims to introduce and determine order in our city and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56157	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers and your State Secretarys, distinguished and respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are today, under this point, discussing, in my opinion, a very, very important segment of the interior of the Serbian state. I look at this law, first of all, from that angle. I think this bill has been given to the quality that came from the ten-year experience of applying the municipal, no matter what they call it, affairs in the communal jurisdiction, whether it's the police or the militia. The data are, in addition to the bill, significant explanations and analysis of the effects and objectives of this law, but what is the basic sentence and the finding, the first sentence in the explanation, is that the basic reason for adopting and innovating or adopting a new law as we wish, is the basic reason why the municipal militia is also educated in municipalities. I quote, that's literally what I'm saying. I think it's about making a bill, that's what it feels like, in every member, this was just meant to be. I also want to say that I should draw attention to another segment, that jobs of importance for municipal activity can be done at the local if structural organisational executives are integrated and now this may be for someone terrible, integrated within the Ministry of the Interior, whether as a municipal police or a municipal militia. In order to base this on my opinion, I will say, if you analyse the proposal for a law on the municipal militia, more than 20 members are explicitly linked to them, and police work has been processed, especially in more than half the members of this proposal. I think that's good and that's probably what the minister was saying earlier, that it probably did result from a ten-year experience dealing with these affairs in the form of an organ called the police communal. Speaking of the law, the need for mutual co-operation between the municipal militia and the MUP, or the police, is very pronounced. It would be better for them to be together within the framework of the MUP and act uniquely, not from the municipality to the municipality, by absolutely standing behind the definition when this proposal is made, that every municipality should be, every local self-government unit to the end and fully involved in these affairs, with the methodology and method of achieving these tasks called the police method of carrying out the tasks. Jobs are often carried out under this bill of law in a manner prescribed by the Internal Affairs Act and the regulations on police powers and police conduct. One example, one of the members is, say, Article 28 in that sense, and there are many more. The most delicate activities of the municipal militia as the use of means of coercion and control and coercion are not carried out professionally without the MUP, or the police and its internal control. This is particularly well presented in Articles 30, 31 and 32, including others. Also when establishing a working relationship, important things happen again through the MUP, especially when it comes to the psycho-physical ability of candidates, and when it determines the preparation of psycho-physical and determination and evaluation of psycho-physical abilities. That's what the M.O.P. does under Article 35. Security check also, so to speak, is in the hands of the MUP. The programme and verification of professional training and the assessment of professional training is again within the scope of the work of the MUP and not to be listed further. Not to add up, but this shows that what I said first and confirms, that, by its nature, municipal militias fall into internal affairs, irrefutable and certain. For this reason, I continue to represent the the thesis that there is a need to find a way in the future for them to be integrated and integrated and also with the Ministry of the Interior. The second thing, which is very important, is that these jobs belong to internal affairs, the municipal militia, right now I'm talking about the proposal, is doing things of general security importance, which must be taken into account at any moment. The communal militia and its affairs are an element, i.e. they carry businesses in the national security system. As such, they must also have a place in the national security strategy. If we have included the media in the national security strategy as bearers, in the broadest sense, and it would be illogical for one of the holders of the national security strategy not to have a municipal militia. The bill foresees, and the minister well and in detail explained that municipal affairs will be carried out by local individuals, i.e. municipalities and cities in the future. However, I get the impression based on the proposed law, that we may be overly, unfavourable, degree of unwanted disintegration of the total of these tasks at the state level, because I'm afraid we will have, due to different interests, from the municipality to the city to the city, different and access to the organization of that service. In this service, it is very important, this bill provides for internal control, but on the other hand, the law provides that one municipality can organise a municipal militia and only with three people, and it also says that all should have internal control. I ask you, what will and may be the internal control of the operation of the municipal police under these conditions? And we have proven quality internal control today, within the Ministry of the Interior, which could integrate the municipal militia into the frameworks of the MUP, to carry out these tasks. Of course, in this situation, if they were within the ministry, they would have to be taken into account and they would have to give absolute freedom and right and respect the participation of every local unit, or every municipality and city and their working day-to-day co-operation with the MUP, but at the level of the local unit. I don't see what the distraction would be if we had a tighter, by vertical, organized municipal militia, that would be from a center run essentially, I don't see what would bother us with better work. I think in the future, in a relatively short time, that in practice, in the application of this bill, we'll show some or all of these things that I've been talking about and that this law will, of course, be upgraded, initiated. He, like any other law in his first date and in his first application, can never be good to the end, because practice needs to show and out some things, so I think this law will also be exposed to opportunities to show us what it needs to be built on. For this reason, the PUPS parliamentary group, regardless of what these visions are, we do not bring them out in order not to adopt such a bill, it is also evidence that we have not gone with any amendments to it, but we are warning of something that should be done through the application of this law, which this parliamentary group will accept this proposal, that through the application of it we will take care of what I have been talking about, that in a relatively short time we will further perfect this law and that we will carry out matters more successfully at the country level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56159	The word is Anna Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56160	I thank the president. Dear Minister Ružić with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on the militia that represents, I am free to say, one national law, which shows how the state takes care of each citizen and allows him to live in as good a communal order as possible. We heard how many newspapers this law makes, first of all we need to highlight the fact that it is written to help citizens, not only large cities, but even the smallest municipalities in Serbia. So far, we have had a case that only citizens can have municipal police, and today it can have the smallest local self-government, which is a great advantage of this law. As someone who served as a member of the larger municipality of Voždovac, it is one city municipality of Belgrade, which also has its suburban part, I can freely say that no matter what it did very effectively, she had a lot of municipal problems in the previous period. Despite the fact that it is with the help of different police and inspectors, etc. tried to seduce the community order in every sense, it was very difficult because of some limited powers, both control and punishment, which is why this law, which today is on the agenda, we can really say that we are happy that it will be supported and adopted and that citizens will finally be able to live in a better environment. I would also like to emphasise a very good co-operation with public utility companies, both with Cleanliness and with Greenenilla. Regardless of their up-to-dateness, parks were often full of garbage, because no matter what they were cleaning up every day, according to some of their plans and protocols, citizens simply had no, certain citizens, awareness that they shouldn't throw garbage, especially where the youngest are enjoying themselves. When I talk about this purity, the Vozdovac City Municipality also organized its unit, the Eco Patrol of the Vozdovac Municipality. She had the authority to go to a specific location, clean it, cut the grass, mainly locations that were not in the jurisdiction of the Public Communal Company Greenenilo Belgrade, and thus we complemented and tried to make sure that the people of Voždovac lived in a better environment. However, because of lack of authority, it was also often problematic. An even more critical situation was in the Pubal settlements, where they often threw a shot at irregular places, the inspectors went out in the field, but they couldn't determine who it was and when they did it. Now, this new law will really give us the opportunity to get out in time and out on the ground, to hand over even fines, if necessary, and really make the communal order more efficient. The very fact that the municipal militia will also be organised in every local self-government where it is necessary for them to be familiar with the situation on the ground, allows them to be faster in a certain place where it is necessary, as I say, to act preventively, and to enforce certain sanctions. That's really the advantage of this law. Also, when we talk about some traffic order, before the reconstruction of Duke Stepe Street, we had a case to park in the middle of August lanes, rails, on foot crossings, etc. and while someone would call on "a spider" or until the municipal police who was in charge of the whole of Belgrade, or we had a regulation of one to five thousand citizens, it really wasn't enough municipal police officers. We had a situation to make car columns on Central City Street. Because of this, the reconstruction of Duke Stepe Street is significantly reduced and facilitated, but I believe that because of these powers that the municipal militia will now have, where it can write powers to remove vehicles from August, that is also a great advantage. What I would yet single out is the work of a civilian who can't be abused, especially because he can only be on the orders of the commissioner and in that sense, the only thing we can get is a more effective application of authority, because in situations where those who break certain regulations see the communal police, or now the militia by a new name, move away from that place and there's simply no evidence that they've committed a violation. Also, audio-video recording will make it easier to prove certain works. What I would particularly point out is a new way of selecting, selecting personnel that will be based on different psychophysical capabilities, acquired abilities, but primarily on security checks, so that no one who is legally convicted of a particular act that involves violence or carrying arms, etc. will not be able to work in this service, which really allows us to have the right people in the right places, because it is necessary for this kind of law to be implemented into action. The communal militia will be fully approached through its powers, allowing them to live in a nicer, healthier environment, in one municipal order and therefore, in every sense, a parliamentary group of Socialist Movements, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support your proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56161	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56162	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, state secretaries, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of the debate on today's agenda, I will declare on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that we will unreservedly support this law in the day of voting, given two facts that cannot be doubted. First, that this system solution which is qualitatively a step forward in relation to the existing system solution and norms that have been made in the current law, I am talking about a law that has a completely different name, the Law on the Community Police, and the other fact that can also not be doubted is the obligation that, given that more than 50% of the amended norms imposes a kind of duty or obligation to adopt a single law, and not a law on amendments and additions to the law, in the event that this percentage is below 50%. What seems important to me at first, to point out primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, is that finally the units of local self-government that could not appear now as those who are going to educate the municipal militia, I will use all the time the term that is adequate and that will be the legal term when we talk about this bill, by showing you a fact that there may be problems. In particular, if, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, two or more units of local self-government decide to form a common organ of the municipal militia, the question arises as to how, in view of the validity of the Treaty on Employment, we will regulate the number of perpetrators, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if the jobs of the municipal militia are entrusted, let's say, to the local self-government that has the prerogative of the city, will we also have one type of mortgage that binds to the number of perpetrators, will the existing personnel structure at the city level be able to carry out all the tasks related to several units of local self-government? I will mention the case of the city where I come from, therefore, the town of Užica, which as such no doubt, according to the provisions of the law, has also the need, and also the constitutional service of the municipal police, will now be the municipal militia. If the town of Užica is entrusted by several local self-governments, such as Priboj, Prijepolje, Čajetina, Požega, Arile, regardless of which of the nine units of local self-government entrusted these powers, we need to be aware of one fact, that the municipal police, and now the police of the town of Užica, do not have sufficient capacity to carry out all those jobs that will be normized here. I mentioned the town of Uzice because of what my city is about, but I will not want to in any way challenge suspicion in the sense that I favour the town of Uzice in this way, on the contrary, this problem is present on the territory of all Serbia and can be even multiplier if it is not resolved in time, and I am confident that it will be resolved, so before the Government has recognized the situation in which such problems may arise and I hope that since 1 January 2020, the Employment Restriction Regulation will be put out of effect. Why am I saying this? For the reason that the bill also norms that the municipal militia at the level of the unit of local self-government that has the attributes of the municipality can be educated only if the basic condition is met, which is that it has at least three municipal militias. Furthermore, what can be considered affirmative, and in any case, commended as a quality solution, and a new solution to the existing law that regulates municipal police issues, or militias now, is the fact that the deadlines have been significantly shortened and so on. the urgency in deciding and at the same time preventing phenomena that can in any case trigger the obligation to react to the municipal militia, both when it comes to the means of coercion, and when it comes to making decisions that are just governing the way in which the emergency arises. For example, the intervention role of the municipal militia refers to the urgent environmental protection measures, on the one hand, and on the other hand there is so-called. a rescue function that implies that in the so-called provide emergency situations with the necessary assistance for both citizens and state bodies, institutions, institutions, etc. In this direction, it is doubtless the most important cooperation with citizens in terms of gathering information and information and everything that is necessary for the municipal militia to do its job in an adequate way, which must in any case contain elements of professionalism, on the one hand, efficiency and optimal mode of operation. In this direction, co-operation and with inspection services also imposes the need to collect the relevant information, the relevant notifications necessary for the operation of the municipal militia. However, what has not been present so far, and has now been standardised and very well systemised in this Bill proposal, is that the obligation of the municipal militia to notify citizens of the outcome of the reaction or the conduct of a municipal militia or a municipal militia in general as an organ. So, such a way and access to citizens has not been normable so far, it seems to me now that this is very important because there will be a far greater level of legal certainty for citizens, and on the other hand, the attitude of citizens to the municipal militia will undoubtedly be far greater. As for the way in which you're doing things, dear ministers, you've probably had a chance on the ground to face phenomena where so far in the work of the municipal police, problems arise regarding the dilemma of authority, or jurisdiction, even the overlap of jurisdiction. Now I will be so free that little and one way that involves criticism of work, the work of the municipal police so far, I point out a phenomenon that implies inadequate response by the municipal police because it is believed that in the event of a reaction, in order to usurp the authority of other institutions, other bodies. Often, municipal police have called for the authority of the MUP, inspection services, construction inspections, municipal inspections, etc. What was the consequence of that? As a result, in most cases, the non-response of the municipal police on calls and requests to respond, and with what explanation? Well, by reason, we're not in charge. I therefore greatly appreciate, in the SPS parliamentary group, what you have now done, that it is very, very clear and precisely defined what these are competences of the municipal militia, which is a description of the affairs of the municipal militia, within which it can carry out the appropriate actions and take the appropriate measures that are prescribed here. Repeat, prescribed very precise and clear. What has been very problematic so far is this dilemma about potential or potential conflict of jurisdiction in the case of vehicle control, or traffic, removal of vehicles from places where in any case vehicles cannot be located or cannot be stopped or parked. Then it was mostly the condition of overlapping jurisdiction, and the municipal police called for traffic police, and the traffic police replied that it was not their jurisdiction again, especially in the case of situations against legal operations on the green surfaces and so on. So I think in the way you've predicted in this bill, we've definitely solved that problem. When it comes to tactical modes of action by the municipal militia, I think you've also made one progress that is commendable, which is that it's finally prescribed so-called. the mandatory physical or practical presence of a municipal militant on the ground, therefore, on the spot in order to directly and directly affect the prevention of breach of order, i.e. communal order and all other anti-legal actions sanctioned by the provisions of this law. So far, this obligation has not been explicitly envisaged so that in a specific case it appears as a very good solution. When forced to do what seems to be a very good solution, because it is complementary with the provisions of laws and sublegal acts in some other areas, it is even complementary with the provisions of the criminal and criminal law to apply the measures only in those cases where, under one, it is necessary. Two, just in case very small adverse consequences are caused, and three, only when it is protected well that measures are applied to that extent, it is threatened that the reaction is something that must be done, specifically when it comes to health, safety, people's life, then environmental safety, environment, and so on. With regard to the manner in which municipal militiamen will carry out tasks in Article 18, a very well-defined way of applying measures of warning, oral order, identity checks, bringing in, stopping face examinations, temporary confiscation of cases. One newspaper that has never existed in the current Law on the Communist Police, which is audio and video recording. I'm going to ask you in this direction to make one extremely well-intentioned suggestion, specifically from the point of view of the profession, of course, legal professions about it, and I'm talking about it. So that no abuses occur when it comes to taking measures of audio and video recording, it's that so-called. the restrictive method of applying appropriate measures. Why? In view of the fact that audio and video recording must be considered primarily about the protection of personal data, on the one hand, so as not to abuse the data recorded, are collected in this way. I think it's a good way of predicting protection from these phenomena, which is under one record, or keeping audio and video, under two, destroying them or ultimately what means eliminating as evidence or evidence after a certain period of time. This period of time is sufficient because the Criminal Code provides for a period of a very short period of time. I think that's a good solution. What I would also praise is the government of the Republic of Serbia's intensity and now not to be a trivial story, but the fact that no one can doubt that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of our country have a single goal, which is in fact the aim of the citizens of Serbia, which is a decent Republic of Serbia, or a decent state. To achieve that decency, we just have a way, one of the ways in which it is competent when it comes to the obligations of citizens to institutions, according to the good, according to the above-mentioned material goods, as arranged. On the other hand, how it can be sanctioned. This is, not to be rude, one of the possible ways to raise the degree of culture of citizens, on the one hand, and on the other hand to prevent possible consequences that can happen in the event of disrespect of these measures that lead to this particular degree and the desired degree of culture. What is next a very good and quality solution in the proposal for this law is the new authority of a municipal militiar, which requires the direct and direct possibility of filing a misdemeanour order, i.e. to apply for the initiation of a criminal proceedings, to file criminal charges, to initiate the appropriate procedure. Why? Well, this is how we prevent so-called. Procedures that last, to make them as urgent as possible on the one hand, on the other hand, as effective as possible. It is this norm that you have predicted that you have made a great contribution to achieving all these three principles and urgency and necessity and efficiency, and indeed in this direction you have our great support. Why am I saying this? Because so far in the powers of a communal officer, he's now going to be a municipal militia officer who hasn't shown up this so-called. discretionary powers that, if he assesses and, of course, provided that the conditions laid down in the law are met, the possibility of filing a misapplication that the infringement report will be brought and initiated against the perpetrator of an appropriate act which is as a violation normised both in this law and in complementary laws. When we talk about species that mean so-called. the repression or coercion against the perpetrators of violations of the law, that I do not speak ill, then we also saw that you have very precisely defined these measures of coercion, both in terms of warnings, and in terms of oral order, identity, where, when it comes to our dear ladies, our friends, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important that you have applied the basic principle, the principle of banning and discrimination, especially when it comes to stopping and examining the person. I'm not going to talk about the subject and the vehicle, where the facial exam has to do the face of the same sex. In this way, in any case, we prevent any kind of phenomenon, or even the mildest inconvenience that can occur in the operation of the municipal militia. At the very end, I want to point out something that should be in the future our intensity, which is the education of the municipal militia, and that is the continuous education of the municipal militia from all aspects, notably from the aspect of professional training, in order to raise professional references to the highest level, on the one hand. On the other hand, the acquisition of practical experiences and this experience is based on the application of legal regulations and solutions both in our countries and in countries of the region and beyond. All these experiences are very valuable, significant and can help us to apply them in the best possible way, which is also the primary goal. When it comes to labour control, it is good that you have predicted that everyone who is an actor of one event is obliged to be processed, if as an actor of this event appears and as a perpetrator of a certain norm of the law, but at the same time it is good to inform anyone who has to exercise control or control, all the way to the M.O.P. that will particularly take care of whether the power limit is exceeded, whether someone has committed abuse of the official position, whether someone has acted dishonestly in performing the service and anything that can degrade or destroy the reputation of a municipal militiaman or a communal militia. Dear Ministers, I think that in this way you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have contributed greatly to one question, one area of life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope that every future legal solution will go in that direction, either through the adoption of a new law or amendments and the addition of the law. We firmly believe that, the Socialists, the SPS MPs support you in that, and I repeat, we will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56163	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say we haven't heard much about the law in the debate so far. These colorful lies and these praises at the expense of the government's work, I'd say they don't have much to do with what we're really discussing today, and what I was wondering from your explanation is, what are you planning on doing with this law, what is the basic goal? Is it possible for this municipal militia, as it will now be called, to be a new force against the citizens of Serbia, because now the possibility is being created that all municipalities and cities in Serbia have municipal police, or is this actually the goal of making the former municipal police an organ that will primarily be by improving the conditions and quality of life of citizens, and which will be in the service of citizens? You know very well that the municipal police have already come out on a very bad footing with citizens, and it is absolutely certain from these legal provisions that are in front of us today that the municipal militia will be in an even worse position, because this law is going in this bad direction, the wider possibilities of coercion, the means of coercion, and that basic purpose is simply neglected. In my opinion, you know, the title above article 1 says – the purpose of the municipal police and the first position would have to be that the municipal police would do affairs of their jurisdiction in the interests of the citizens and that would have to be the basic goal, but unfortunately not. You were here talking about your intensity. Among other things, you said that the big news in this law is that now the municipal militia will be able to act outside the uniform, because, as you said in your explanation in the presentation, it happens that when they're chasing the poor person who's selling something around the market to survive, that as soon as they see the vehicle of the municipal police or see the communal police, then these people run away. Is it in your opinion that this is the main problem in the state of Serbia, and do you think that any of these people are selling it a little bit of misery for selling and taking it out on some cardboard or on some cyrada, because he's bored because he doesn't like the state, because he wants to harm the state or do it to survive? There are two ways to show up like this, I agree that it shouldn't exist, but there are two ways to eliminate it. One way you're trying, which is to strengthen the repression and spread the authority of the municipal militia and create a secret municipal militia that will go by order of the captain without uniform, and here I see you laughing, but it's really not funny. The other way is, Mr. Rose, you're systemically solving things. If our country is really as successful as you say it is, if it's as economically advanced as you say it is, why doesn't the nature of things reduce the number of these people who are trying to sell a little thing around the market or somewhere else, to feed themselves and their family? Don't you think they'd like to have a good job, have a good pension, have social and health insurance and not be seen by friends and family and children of their friends or friends of their children, on that you'll admit to a humiliating task? You're here to say that, as a rule, the municipal militia is acting in uniforms, but that, by order of the Chief, by the written order of the Chief, they can do without the official uniform, but there's no limit under which terms. That should, because you know, instead of them going as far away as possible from police authority, you're making practically a secret communal militia. Competence, and here is the previous speaker, commended that the jurisdiction is now very broad and indeed is. I'll get over it. Someone said, they're just not going to be able to issue IDs and passports yet, but it seems that the amendment can be improved, so you can assign that function to them and then be complete authority, to be in charge of everything. The problem, however, is who will train these people, how they will be trained for everything you predicted and whose cost. You'll admit that when we see all these competencies piled up by the municipal police, someone in order to be a municipal police officer will have to be a little more professional than a minister, for example. in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, because such broad powers and partial work really shouldn't have been. The big problem is Mr. Ruzic and what definitely now this municipal militia is taking over part of the police's authority, which should not be the principle and the way in which and when coercion will be applied. In Article 4, that's what we're talking about. So he says, if the physical resistance to execution does not make it possible or fails, etc., you have a practical situation where you send a municipal militia to commit coercion. That can't be the case in a regulated state. You know that's whose job it is. That, I would say, is indeed contradictory to Article 26 of this same law in which they are regulated in a different way. It is to apply laws governing police authority and how police work is done. Let's get back to these powers of theirs. He says emergency measures and rescue functions. That's what one of the newspapers is compared to the previous law. It's another expansion of jurisdiction. You practically suggest that in the event of any kind of emergency environmental protection measures, protection against natural and other disasters, fire protection, other competences from the jurisdiction of the municipality, the city, etc. In this way, the life or health of municipal police officers can be endangered, and the question is, how are you going to train these people to do so? Co-operation with the citizens. There's been a change compared to the previous law, I find it really incomprehensible, and that is proof that you don't want the municipal militia to be in the service of citizens. Namely, it says - citizens can file reports, petitions and suggestions on the city's written path, and that's the rule. And he says - in urgent cases by phone and direct oral address. In the previous 2009 law, it existed as a regular opportunity to address it by electronic means. And how is it possible, Mr. Ruzic, that in the 2019 era of communication, you are throwing out the possibility that citizens are speaking to the municipal militia by electronic means? In 2009, it could, and in 2019, it can't. Then you talk about improving business, improving communication. Ana Brnabić talks about IT technology, about experts, about I don't know what, and you see that's really not the case. Secondly, we believe that the municipal police are obliged to respond to their every request in writing, so that something is left behind and that it must be within 15 days. If you want a serious organ, then that organ must be serious and behave. Co-operation with the interior ministry empowers the municipal militia, the municipal police to look for some information concerning the Personal Data Protection Act. There are vast possibilities of abuse. You are, of course, saying that the municipal militia officer must be trained for the addition of another qualification, so they must also be professional in the field of protection of personal data. But you're determining that exactly the municipal militia will keep track of the requested data, which means they need to control themselves. That's not possible, that's not good. You can't leave, to say folkly, the goat to guard the cabbage, nor the municipal militia can control itself over the data it requires, which are considered protected personality data. The jobs of the municipal police member of the 10th you have a literal general jurisdiction, and you place a huge burden on the back of the municipal police. The citizens will be able to address them for anything. So far there's been a lot of answers, we're not in charge, we're not in charge. Now, let's see what he's going to say and how he's going to say, because now literally, as I said a moment ago, except for the issue of IDs and travel documents, for everything else, it's the competent communal police. Environmental protection, cultural goods, local roads, streets, public buildings etc. So he says, among other things, the application of the law governing the symbols of the state. Is there an example for you, Mr. Rose? Let me ask you. Do you expect me to, for example? The municipal militia, which will be established for the Bujanovac municipality's territory, to go after citizens' applications, here I will be the first to report it, to leave for example. in Veliko Trnovac, so that from the grave of terrorist Ridrun Qazimi, who has been liquidated in the fight with the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, who is a terrorist and a criminal, to take down an Albanian flag that has been going on there for more than a decade, contrary to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, what does no one react to? And besides, it'll be in the custody of the municipal militia. Do you expect it to be that way? And is that, among other things, the intensity of the law? You've given some information in your explanation of the law as much as you've filed for bad parking, as much as you've tried to impress us with some numbers. I have to tell you that you didn't. But in order to really see what the municipal police are dealing with, I would ask you to give us a much more detailed review for the city of Belgrade, so let's see exactly what areas the number of criminal charges have been filed for. Let's see what we're interested in right now, what's it like? For the holes in the road? There is no retail street in Belgrade with no impact holes. Let's see how many of these applications have been filed. Let's see, for example. how much application has been made for clogged water drains. You claim huge rains, it's fallen a lot. That's not the problem. Get past the bridge loop. Trees grow from individual drains. Here's what I saw yesterday. So it's not about something that was clogged yesterday or because of some large amount of water, it's about years of neglect. That, in fact, is a fundamental dilemma when it comes to this law. Do you want a municipal militia that will be in the service of Serbian citizens, who will be looked upon positively with approval, because they will know that they are there to protect their interests, to improve the quality of their lives, not to be those who are going to chase after the poor and those who sell some rags or old stuff about the market to feed themselves and their family? No one, Mr. Rose, does that out of boredom. That's not where the big money goes. If you want to deal with crime and corruption, start from the top, of these 300 million we're going to give to the US highway construction company because someone decided to eliminate the public procurement process. Well, if we don't need public procurement when building a 500m-euro or 800m-euro highway, so with what right can you do any, not the ministry, but tell the least local self-government – you have to conduct public procurement when you're getting toilet paper or something else? You have to show from the top that you want to deal with corruption. Article 11 of the coercion procedure. That's what's contradictory of another member. He says – In his work, municipal militias are handled by the principle of working with the least harmful consequences, and the means of coercion are applied only when absolutely necessary and to the extent necessary for the performance of the task. Look out, it's a measure for them. What does that mean and what are needed, and what are the unnecessary adverse consequences? That's not what the law says. You can't send the police to commit a communal militia, or to commit coercion. There is another member of the law that says that the means of coercion are applied only when a municipal militiaman cannot otherwise refuse a simultaneous counter-attack against himself or another person. And that's contradictory of this, where you say the means of coercion are applied to the extent necessary to carry out the task. If the task cannot be carried out, then call the police, as a regular state authority and one who is in charge of implementing the measure of coercion, so let them finish the job, not get local sheriffs to deal with who they think they are. You further say, Mr. Ruzic - the strategic plan is considering the municipal or city council as needed. What does that mean, if necessary? There's no need for that. Second of all, if you're considering strategic plans, where are the reports? Let's write down at the same time and discuss the report, how the strategic plan was implemented, to discuss the annual report on the work of the municipal police, the three-month report, I think it's something it has to do. Identity check - shall be made by means of an identification card, ID card, or by a person whose identity has been verified. So if he asks you, you say - I'm Peter Petrovic and that's enough, or is it necessary to give you a ID? Then you have a ride. Bringing in is not bringing in, it's bringing in, and call it your real name, Mr. Ruzic. The only dilemma remains is whether you will buy for the municipal militia and marice, because this is the only thing left in relation to this other equipment, if you expect the municipal militia to bring in citizens, then you must provide them with the means to do so safely, both for themselves and for those citizens who essentially bring in and bring in. You have a really wide range of powers, even recording. The question arises whether it's a sea shot or it can be classified. In the use of the means of coercion, you added, that's an improvement compared to the previous law, now you have this so-called. A pepper spray or tear gas, which was never intended by law before, which is what you've now predicted. You have for these municipal militias who will treat minors. I don't know how you think, especially in the municipalities that will have that minimum number of three municipal militiamen, one chief, one deputy and one executive, how you'll have him and for the protection of personal data and for all these other broad responsibilities, and for minors, and to examine, if examined, the face has to be the same half. It's something that, really, I think will be difficult, and it's very hard to do. As they say, backup police. The number of municipal police officers, you estimated it would be about 5,000 or one per 5,000 citizens. Mr. Ruzic, in some municipalities it will be more than the number of dentists or the number of doctors and we should also see what is the priority of this state and this government. And one more thing where, as you say, you've improved the law - criminal provisions. You've only had one misdemeanor before, and now you've got wide-ranging violations... (President: Time. Here, I'm done, Mrs. Gojkovic. And what particularly bothers me is Article 27, paragraph 2, which refers to gathering notices. So the municipal militia officer orders someone to deliver a notice... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56165	Here, now you'll get an answer from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56166	I thank you for this inspiring discussion. I want to answer, because of the public, because of the citizens, some of the findings you've made. If you have also read the previous 2009 law, if I am not mistaken, the text of Article 5, concerning emergency measures and rescue functions, is identical to Article 5 of this Act. So the claim that it wasn't and it wasn't applied doesn't just stand. As for the criticism that this law does not state that citizens can turn by electronic means, I just want to remind you that it is in this home that the eGovernment Act, which is one infrastructure law which, with the General Administrative Procedure Act, clearly defines the obligation to exchange these data in communication with the State Administration by electronic means. So there is no need to find it now in a member of this law, and that need existed in 2009, when these other laws were not passed. As to whether, among other things, municipal militants will be responsible for this hypothetical example that you cited in the Bujanovac municipality, yes, they will be responsible. We didn't intend to fascinate anyone, but we did bring out clear data. So, 60,000 times, citizens have been talking through the Beokom Service, and I think it's, whether it's fascinating or not, but it's a data that's very realistic, exact and accurate. Although I was born Belgrade, I really have no manners to give Belgrade exclusiveness, nor am I mayor of Belgrade, I am Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so here we are talking about a law that enables the establishment of, therefore, the possibility and right of units of local self-government throughout Serbia to form a service of the municipal militia. So I don't know why we should just talk about Belgrade. When we talk about that so-called. The poor, where I agree that, unfortunately, in every society, including ours, there are those people who deal with these jobs and the best solution to it are new jobs, new factories. I think that's what's been going on for the last five or six years. We are witnesses, both of you from the opposition and us who are in power, I just want to show you that this problem, or illegal trade, is not treated by the municipal militia, but by the market inspection. The communal militia can deal exclusively with the takeover of the public area on which the illegal trade is carried out. As regards identity checks, or Article 21, which you have listed, it is exclusively relevant to the verification of the identity of those who are perpetrators of a violation of the work of the municipal militia. So, communal police have no ability to legitimize anyone, if anyone sits on the street, walks and so forth, to come and legitimize him, but only those who commit a crime. If these persons do not want or have a personal document, they have the opportunity to take them to the police, which, in accordance with the law, can determine their identity. What you said was that one municipal militiaman would practically be employed by 5,000 residents, that's a provision under the previous law. In this law, there is no provision. If you take a closer look, you'll see it's gone. Why isn't there? One reason is that since we are now giving the possibility to all municipalities to form the service of the municipal militia, one reason is very practical. So you have municipalities that have 15,000, 20,000, 50,000 inhabitants, etc. And if we were to adhere strictly to that criterion, probably that service wouldn't even be able to function with five municipal militias. So I tried to answer some of your questions. You said that, apropo that poor girl, yes, of course, they shouldn't be sanctioned. So, this isn't about repression, but that logic you're propagating would mean that perhaps thieves of a more modest property should not be sanctioned, and the police should arrest them because, behold, they're a more modest asset. We're here to advocate, however, the rule of law, that the laws are respected and I think that's the intensity of all of us. I think that's the intensity of you, too, but you certainly have the right to present in your political discourse one such attitude that may probably be accepted by some of the people of sovereignty, i.e. citizens and citizens. But I don't think it would simply be responsible by any government, including this government where I personally sit as a minister of state and local self-government. I hope I haven't answered all the questions, but I tried to point out, for the sake of the public, some of the things that just didn't actually stand in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56167	Thank you. The word has Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56168	Let me start with this last one of yours, Mr. Rose. You talk about this fight against corruption, but what is a problem – the results are missing. Specify the names of high-ranking state officials, at least from previous regimes, who were responsible for what they did. You know that robbery privatisation was carried out and the SPS supported many authorities and many of the regimes that implemented it. You also participated in the previous period. You know, you're the individual ministers, for example, that Milan Markovic who was your predecessor in the post of Minister of State and Local Self-Government, named it after the newspaper that he has a yacht that's worth this much or that much, so he went to SNS. No more yachts, no more headlines. Now, apparently, he earned it from the minister's salary. How much is that salary, Mr. Rose? Would you like to earn a yacht for the ministerial term? We have examples here of the former minister and Prime Minister who, I would say, came in a completely illegal way to own a vineyard that he later sold for millions of euros. He got a grant, planted on state land that he didn't rent, so when he planted it, he sold it and said he's a successful businessman. What if it's not a crime? How many people like that are in jail? It's not one. But you're the one who said, in his explanation, the problem is that when they see the vehicle of the municipal police or the municipal police officer, they run away. Get out of here, you poor thing. You say – they can only deal with the busy public surface. Yeah, I can't keep it in the air. They've got to put that chart they're selling off somewhere. That's what the point is. You talk about identifying your identity and saying, "If they won't give you a ID, then they'll be taken to the police by a municipal police officer." Whoever won't give a ID won't take him away, but someone has to physically take him down, put him in a vehicle, and take him as a police-bound salami to determine his identity there. It's something the municipal militia shouldn't be doing. I asked you specifically, you're talking about giving exclusiveness to Belgrade. I asked you, but give me information for any other city in Serbia you have, because you've been giving information to Belgrade and thanking that local self-government unit. Give us information on any other unit of local self-government how many municipal police have filed charges for road holes, for buildings that are under cover, for clogged sinks and other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56169	Thank you. Three minutes. Thank you. Do you want to speak, Minister? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56170	Thank you. Indeed in the capacity of the minister I cannot enter, although this is a political arena, in this, to say, political considerations and debates, but I must say one thing. Of course, I'm not going to answer what you were saying, just to remind you that this particular Privatisation Act, which was a robbery, that this particular party you mentioned at the time was not the only one, but the only one in the O.R. when it was voted against that law. So, since we may be young, we remember for a long and long time in politics. I wouldn't remind you what some other parties did at the time, when that law was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56171	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56172	Thank you. I came forward to mention the SPS and the support that the SPS provided to various governments, among other things, we were also in the government where the SRS was with us, so I didn't hear that it was mentioned, even though it was a successful government. Milorad Mircic: He said. ) Well, he didn't say, but in any case, we have nothing to be ashamed of, and we can look back and fully realize everything that's been going on and what's been good and what's been bad, but pointing out to the Privatization Act and tying to the SPS is really shameless. It's shameless that the SPS was just against that law and precisely because the SPS MPs voted against that law and because, if anything else, we were hostages to that law, and we're not talking about everything that the SPS and its members have been through the pogrom, catharsis and everything else we've been going through. Therefore, it should have been, if anything, for the sake of the citizens to at least say it honestly. Given that I was mentioned in the previous speaker's speech, I just have to draw attention to the public, the President, that it's very important to avoid this political exhibitionism, which is here all the time, and I don't know why? Here's just a few reasons why I point that out. First, the official shop is taken from every official, particularly authorised official, whether in uniform or not. He can be in a civilian, and he's obliged to take the official shop, I don't see what's wrong with that, or what's illegal. Secondly, it is not the municipal police JP "Serbian roads" or "Belgrade road" to patch asphalt holes, i.e. covering the asphalt curtain. They are clearly defined by the authority of the municipal police, so I ask you to criticise for criticism and desire to avoid anyone being critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56173	Thank you. The task of the MPs is to criticise, it's our primary task, and to control the work of the government. Nothing terrible happened because of someone's discussion. Are any of the other authorizeds answering for word? (Yes) (Nemnja Sarovic: Replica. No, there was no basis. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56174	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to point out the satisfaction that we have not heard a single complaint in the course of the debate, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the municipal militia. Therefore, the main objective of this law is to introduce municipal order in cities and municipalities in Serbia. During the application of the current Law on the Communist Police, we have seen numerous shortcomings and inability to effectively protect citizens from the boast of each type, whether it is illegal construction, whether it is a waste dump in places that are not intended for it, whether it is illegal parking, loud music or any other non-compliance with the municipal order and rules. We heard some oatmeals. We have some inappropriate statements about this later, but what is essential is that this law removes all these shortcomings and establishes a modern, functional and efficient system of protection of the municipal order in Serbia and improves the quality of life of Serbian citizens. So, in every municipality, in every city. Let's get in line. This law allows education of the municipal militia at the municipal or city level as a unit of local self-government. So any municipality or city will be able to form a municipal militia within its own municipal or city administration. With that in mind, the current limitation of one militiaman to 5,000 inhabitants is lifted. So it's a benefit, as for large cities and municipalities, here I primarily think of Belgrade, which is also the initiator of this law, but it's also a benefit for municipalities with a small number of inhabitants. Large cities and municipalities will be able to have more municipal militias, which has not been the case so far, which will increase the direct efficiency of activity, and smaller units of local self-government, which so far have not been able to achieve this right, will now be able to educate the municipal militia. Why am I apostrophe of Belgrade? Because Belgrade has so far had over 300 municipal police officers. Everyone will agree that it is absolutely small and not enough to remove all the municipal problems facing a city of two million inhabitants. It was absolutely impossible to remove any communal problem with such a small number of municipal police officers. That's why it's a good thing this restriction is lifted now. I repeat again, good for large cities, for large municipalities, for the city of Belgrade, but it is good for small municipalities, i.e. small municipalities with few inhabitants. Furthermore, it is possible to form a joint service of the municipal militia by units of local self-government. So we are creating an opportunity to conclude an agreement of several units of local self-government on the establishment of a joint service, which will significantly contribute to rationalisation, under number one, efficiency, under number two, but also economics. The criteria for hiring municipal militants are tightened. Therefore, the candidate selection system for performing the tasks of the municipal militiaeer now implies that, in addition to the conditions met, such as psychophysical ability, acquired education, passed an appropriate exam, there is now a condition that there are no security obstacles to these operations. This means that it will not happen that someone starts a working relationship that is found to be being conducted against him by official duty, or that has an already appropriate judicial verdict. Next, newspapers are being introduced, and that's working in a civilian. We've been through this a lot. This implies working in a civilian exclusively and exclusively under the written orders of the Chief of Police, for certain cases in certain areas, such as the illegal occupation of public area, illegal sales, illegal taxi transport, etc. This will contribute significantly more effectively to the work of municipal militiaries in terms of the prevention and sanctioning of those offences. So, what do I mean, when it comes to this? In practice so far, uniform work has proved insufficiently effective, as offenders are moving away from the scene by detecting marked vehicles and militants on the ground. So now it's going to be done by people in civilians and thus effectively prevents these phenomena that we've been talking about. What is very important is the establishment of internal control as a special organisation unit within the municipal militia, aimed at internal control of the work of municipal militiamen and all other employees in the municipal militia. All of this contributes to the final establishment of the municipal order in Serbia and the creation of an efficient system in which to know exactly who is responsible, who does what, and the largest benefit from this will now have Serbian citizens. Respect for the municipal order and increasing the security of citizens is something that is very important and directly affects the quality of life of citizens, both in the capital and in all other municipalities. We had one contradiction, which is that on the one hand a large number of municipal problems have been identified in Belgrade, and on the other hand it is criticised to give greater authority to the municipal militia. He says there are widespread powers. Of course, to spread powers, of course it's a good thing that municipal militiamen will have more authority and we'll have more municipal militias. If we had a larger number of municipal militiamen, maybe this wouldn't have happened in Borca what happened -- buried canals, buried drains, throws as much junk as possible. If we had a larger number of municipal militias right in those suburban municipalities, we might have prevented, I'm not saying, these scenarios we had a few days ago. Of course we want communal order, of course we want greater powers from municipal militiamen. All this contributes to a more effective fight against all these kinds of municipal disorder. The police law explicitly allows the police to use only the military and the police. So there's just nothing to argue about. So this termological change and hence the introduction of this term of militia. I'd like to clear up some misunderstandings for the citizens. Let's just point out once and for all, when it comes to the municipal militia, there's no use of firearms. This, I'm looking at some MPs now, but none of you are personally addressed, but in public there was one clue, someone was trying to say that the municipal militia would have firearms, etc. So, no firearms. Communal militiamen will have handcuffs, bats, spray. Nothing more. He'll assist the regular police. So there's no firearms. One more thing, the Community Police Act was passed 10 years ago. It was brought by another government. It was brought by the DS government, and at the time that Gilas was mayor. All charges, all attempts to attach this responsibility to SNS as we try to build a party army or as this is a form of party employment, and there are some on-call experts who have appeared in the media when it comes to this topic, how this is, I don't know, repression, how this is a new apparatus of coercion, etc., as this is party employment, I want to say that since it has taken responsibility for the exercise of power in the city of Belgrade, there are only 10 communal police officers, only 10, and this is in favour of that there is no party army here. I do not argue that this may have been the goal of Dragan Gilas, while he was mayor, to build a party army. I'm actually sure of it. This information contributes to the absence of any party employment. Ten municipal police officers have been hired since the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power in the city of Belgrade. We have a very small and trendy statement by the former Commissioner for Public Information, Rodoljub Sabic, who tweeted, and says -- the municipal police will be the militia again in the future, they will get the right to act without uniforms, the next idea will be the secret municipal police. That's what Rodoljub Shabic says. He tried to be funny, but this is one attempt to bring confusion into the public, attempt to cause panic and attempt to show power as authoritarian, etc. Fortunately, such attempts will not pass their hands. What I'm saying is that this law resembles similar laws in Europe and contains similar solutions as in many EU countries. Finally, I would like to share with you a good news, a good news for Serbia and congratulate the citizens of Serbia on opening Chapter 9 in EU membership negotiations. Chapter 9 on financial services, and I think it is another confirmation that Serbia is on a good track and that Serbia is going forward in the way that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have drawn up. For all these reasons, I want to give strong support to the bill. The SNS parliamentary group will vote on the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56175	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The first on the list is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56176	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, is one of the most important laws on the municipal militia, which we bring to this session, and we hope that it will contribute to many things that have not worked so far, especially in local environments that are not close to the central authorities, to a lot of things going in a better direction. However, having the experience we have from Sandzak, we are very serious about how this will help solve some of the burning problems. The communal militia has its responsibilities defined by law and which will in many ways accelerate organised resistance to many things that are not exactly at this very moment at an envious level. But there are things they can't solve for themselves, and it concerns the organisation of local and executive authorities in terms of, let's say, open-minded, dumps that aren't exactly adequate. For example, in our Sandzak, you have a very bad situation when it comes to the dump that serves Novi Pazar, which is in one really quality, ecological part, because this dump is not properly done and completely devastated. Then, the Shadow that has a dump near Zlatar, so a beautiful mountain. A field that has a dump by the Lima River. It's a locket, too. So these are the key problems. It's something that must somehow be made a system at this point so that what are the powers of the municipal police is truly at the level that truly organisational local authorities, with the support and help of the state authorities, give them full capacity to work, behave their business properly, and especially because we have situations that our utility companies are very poorly equipped. Let's just say, I'm horrified that every winter they happen to be sprinkles from some trailers, that we still don't have quality vehicles to do it properly. In such situations, municipal police officers are powerless. On the other hand, this Article 5, which is also important when it comes to the engagement of the municipal militia in emergency situations and elemental disasters. We all remember here the fires that took several lives in New Market last year and what's even uglier, the scenes of the fire continue and a few days or weeks ago, two, we also had a fire where it went or burned down a whole family house. There still, in addition to the ministry's promise, in addition to the interior minister's promise, we have not found the right solution to train fire departments to meet all these challenges adequately. How, then, will the municipal militia contribute to all this diminishing, the consequences of such events, unless we still have all those primary institutions to deal with? Of course, other basic things that are dealt with, the responsibilities given to municipal police officers are correct and in many ways will contribute to increasing the consciousness of an ordinary man to take a little more care of environmental protection, the arrangement of space, and ultimately to bring all of this into harmony. However, in order to ask citizens to do so, we must provide them with essential conditions on the basis of which we can require them to respect all that is required of them by this law and all other laws, because it is impossible that municipal police officers in the city where I come from, behave qualityly in their service if you do not have enough parking space, so whoever comes to the parking lot wherever they arrive, because it is not simply provided enough parking space for everyone, and in this way drivers are actually jeopardising pedestrians, pedestrians are jeopardising drivers, and at that moment these municipal police officers or militias will be in a very invisible position. How do I find a way, I end up, to provide them with adequate conditions and mechanisms on the basis of which they can behave their jobs, thus being of general benefit to the public, without jeopardising the rights of other citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56177	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56178	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Ministers with Associates, the basic reason for the adoption of the new Law on the Communist Militia is in the need for municipal militias to be educated in municipalities, above all, because they are absolutely accurate estimates that the functioning of the municipalities is a significant difficulty in maintaining the communal and second order as well as the protection of the environment in general. The organisation of this service and its functioning in municipalities will contribute to the introduction of the municipal order, and we will protect citizens from the haughtiness of each species, regardless of whether it is a proud parking, loud music, waste and disposal of garbage outside the place for which it is designated, illegal construction or non-compliance with other rules governing this area. The education of the municipal militia in accordance with this law ensures that, in co-operation with police and other entities, they take over and implement their own part of the responsibility and thus create all conditions for the safe and orderly environment of their inhabitants. What is of particular importance is the goal of seeking to reduce and control the negative impacts and risks of the community’s actions and tasks, especially by preventing work. The concern of the environment is from the point of view of us from SNS priority of high importance. A healthy environment is the basis for the preservation of human existence, for the healthy development of society and for the level of life of the population. In the achievement of priorities, a significant role will be played precisely by the municipal militia, which must establish a close bond with citizens, with ordinary people and which will prove that it exists to worry that every man's life is taking place in an orderly communal environment and a protected environment. The preconditions for achieving this goal are contained in the proposal for this law by means of solutions ranging from education of the municipal militia to internal control as a special organisational unit. A modified solution with a significant addition to the stopover of a vehicle under which a municipal militia officer is authorised to stop a vehicle found in breach of the rules, to carry out a review of vehicles and persons and objects found in the vehicle will most often be applied in the case of unauthorized transport or unloading of land, kicking, waste and other material, and will result in a reduction of the number of wild dumps, but also prevents illegal transport of particularly dangerous waste. Also, stopping and controlling illegal taxis will contribute to the fight against a gray economy that is also a priority, I hope, all of us. While controlled work in civilians will prevent the illegal occupation of public surfaces, illegal sales, as well as noises in catering facilities. The possibility of education of the municipal militia at the level of municipalities is a welcome solution for us who come from smaller units of local self-government, which care about the municipal order and protection of the environment, people and goods. There are numerous local self-governments, owned in their territories by monuments, landscape architecture, garden architecture, beautiful park and public, green and recreational areas, where, due to the lack of municipal militia, the municipal order has never been established, let alone controlled. Care is inadequate and is often left to local communals, without monitoring and control, so important facilities are, in most cases, abandoned and forgotten and often used for waste disposal. The park in Novi Knezvec, from which I come, was placed under the protection of the state in 1975 as a monument to garden architecture. After an audit of natural values, declared in 1990, as a monument of landscape architecture, called "Old Park" stretches on the surface, of nearly 10 hectares. Its creation is related to the period from 1793 to 1804, the undeniable value of the "Old Park" in Novi Knezevic, and fortunately all of us have such examples in other local self-governments throughout Serbia. The communal order on these facilities can only be preserved by members of the municipal militia, applying the provisions of this bill. Those who made a party army of members of the DS by fictitious recruitment of eco-readers in Vojvodina until 2016, which served as a perfidious robbery of local budgets, today tell us that we do not have the right to one militiaman to 5,000 inhabitants, in fact challenge the right of smaller units of local self-government to education of the municipal militia that is more than necessary. Finally, the proposal for a law on municipal militia in the proposed text should be supported, and I really think that by applying it in all units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, the communal and second order will provide a well-organised living environment that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56179	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. He's not there. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56180	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought this was a very important debate, especially for our political opponents, who are not here today. Their party's directive says that neither on committees nor in the National Assembly can hold dialogue with ruling parties anymore. Someone who complains and tears dives to Europe, to Brussels, lobbying on the fact that there is no dialogue in this assembly, is not here again today. It is particularly important to say that, let's say the DS issued an order to its MPs that they could not attend meetings and that they could not attend board meetings and that they would be punished for this. What kind of party forbids their members to engage in dialogue with political opponents? Can she consider herself democratic? For the parties to be democratic, they must be democratic inside. Sad is this DS that's not here today. This was their theme, they introduced the municipal police, they were supposed to be here today. They're living proof today that DS is still called democratic and that it hasn't been long ago. I'm not against DS, I'm against what she's become and today we see it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have read this law carefully, the municipal militia, to God many of my farmers she will not be nice, she will hardly break through the language of the militia. In fact, from some past experiences, I would hate for the municipal militia to turn into persecution and persecutors of farmers who sell watermelons and peppers. I hope that the municipal police will be evenly distributed between cities and suburban villages, or villages, that they will not be grouped in the city, and I can bet that the municipal militia will be mostly in the city, almost 100%. Why do I say that? I think there's a lot more to the country after. Wild dumps are usually in the country, buried and thrown away. This significantly endangers human health, air quality, water and land. Therefore, I think that some rules must set a schedule for the relative territory of a municipality and local communities, that is, villages in those cities, that is, in these local self-governments. Not everyone can make their way, not everyone can plant and take care of the green. Not everyone can pick up their own garbage and make a dump for themselves. Therefore, the people join themselves in municipal administrations in municipalities, cities, and even in the state. People choose in local and city elections. He chooses representatives to take care of it. They hire other people and they all have salaries together. They should be doing it in a good way in behalf of all the residents. For example, in the country, they should control the usurped areas by the road, where garbage was usually dumped or plowed. There's nowhere for a bird to land today. The savage is at risk. Because they're usurped by the road, especially in Vojvodina's vast surface. Either they're modeled or they're covered in garbage and there's no place to stay anymore. Also, these usurped areas to usurp in Europe would be astronomical punishments. We're allowed to do that. Since one of the tasks of the municipal militia, as far as I can see and control the land and roads, I'd like that municipal militia to be deployed in villages, relatively, not just lurking at breakers who, in one way or another, have to or don't have to. I know our people, too. Our people want fair, but a little over the line. It's a little over the line. It's not really fair. Our people would be all in order, but they would be a little over the line. According to local self-government and cities, the municipal police could take care of it a little bit, but they should take care of the authorities as well. Don't let any local or city cabadias, the type of Gilas, take up some of the garage, take a few parking spaces in the public garage and declare it a private garage, because my God, he has a snake in his pocket and he doesn't want to spend any of those 500 million euros, but he wants to turn the public garage into a private garage and not take out the money. He only has the fear of losing his fortune. So, I wouldn't want that kind of municipal militia to show up, the kind of police Dragan Gilas had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56181	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56182	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with fellow Members, respected MPs, the law that we are dealing with today deals with one public service that is a little bit in the shadow of others and which may not yet have fully lived in the right way in our daily lives, and this is about the municipal police, or the municipal militia, when we adopt this law. The termological change of words itself, the municipal police in the municipal militia, has been caused by the provisions of the Police Act, which are prescribed that only the authority of the MUP can use that name to avoid interference and misunderstanding among citizens. The fundamental change in the current law concerns the fact that the right to establish a municipal militia will now have all units of local self-government, regardless of size, while according to the current solution, only cities and the city of Belgrade had the right to do so. This is a good solution, because although almost all major urban centres have gained the status of the city, we should bear in mind that in our system local self-government we currently have such municipalities that are closer to the six-digit population, i.e. whose seats have tens of thousands of inhabitants, such as Stara Pazova, Indjija, Vrbas, Paracin, Ćuprija, Gornji Milanovac, Negotin and so on. With such environments, the municipal militia is certainly necessary for better functioning and higher quality of life. In order to respect on the other hand the specificities of small municipalities, the bill provides for the possibility that two or more municipalities form a joint service of the municipal militia and, in such a way, in an optimal way, at reduced costs, achieve the objectives for which to establish such a service. There will be no major changes in the work governing the jurisdiction and authority of the municipal militia. In addition to the already existing responsibilities from the domain of maintaining communal order and peace, the right of the municipal militia to exercise control over the application of the law governing state symbols other than national authorities has been added. The law also provides for the right of the municipal militia to collect information from citizens regarding the detection of violations of a criminal order. A slightly larger change is brought by new members who are referring to the establishment of a working relationship. This is very important, the new bill provides for far more rigorous special conditions for the establishment of work relations that are viewed through security checks and the provision that a potential candidate should not be convicted of any criminal offence prosecuted by official duty or even infringements from certain areas that are relevant to the application of the law. The conditions set out like this are stricter, even than those set up for employment in other state bodies, and this will result in the adoption of truly the highest quality personnel with impeccable résumés in the coming period. The proposal for a new law lays down more detailed standards relating to the municipal police exam, as well as infringements of labour obligations. Given the proposed changes and new solutions to this legal matter, the PUPS parliamentary group will give support to their adoption in the day of voting, because we believe that it will rightly contribute to the quality of the work of the municipal police, and thus to the better quality of life in our cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56183	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here's a colleague of Mihaylovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56184	Dear Ministers, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as we are today discussing the proposal for a law on the municipal militia, because I believe it is certainly one of the important laws in our legislation which requires us to regulate what is fundamental to the functioning of a society, and that is the communal order. The communal order is actually a mirror of a society, and that's why we have to deal in an adequate way. In parallel, we have different practices and great experiences and useful experiences in other societies, or countries, and of course we need to do a lot of work in this direction, and I would say that we are much behind in this regard in the behaviour and way of life of our citizens in certain environments that are not used to enough, so to speak, okay. What is fundamental, certainly, is that the municipal police have the basic one, which is to maintain the communal order and ensure the effective enforcement of the laws, other regulations and general acts that are in the jurisdiction of a municipality, which so far has not been adequately resolved and in one orderly way that should have been done and that I hope it will be in the future. In fact, it has been shown that through ten years of experience in the application of the Law on municipal police in cities, that certainly there is a need to expand it as a practice, as a service that will do the same in other local governments, and that is very important because there are many issues and many problems that are daily in the functioning of a local self-government, of course I mean municipalities and where we have certain problems that are not focused on the attention of some authorities and services, and on the other hand they are located here somewhere and are not in direct jurisdiction already existing organisations and services, and the need to deal with these issues in a clear way with a special service, and this is the communal police that are now going to do so under this law and under the laws that will be passed. By amending and supplementing the Law on Police, we have heard that the right has been granted, exclusively the right to use the term police, only by the Ministry of People's Defence. For these reasons, there was a need to comply with all the laws and regulations and, in practice, to give up the name of the municipal police and the municipal police in this area. It was a question that was the most impoverished expression, as we've heard, you said it might be a clerk, etc. You've identified yourself as the legislator of the law as a municipal militia, or a municipal militiaman. Looking through history, that term is no newspaper or any ideology special. The militia appears as an expression back in ancient Rome in ancient cities and states, etc., and etemologically when it is analysed, its meaning is that Miles is a soldier, and the militia is a military service, with this military service being made up of free people, i.e. citizens, and it is understood that this military service is not professional. So it's not a professional army, it's for the needs of citizens and people and it's made up of representatives of free people and ordinary people, etc. For these reasons, we have also later to explain that the militia belongs to the people and is designated as a national militia, which was especially used in the 20th century in communist ideology, in communist countries, which avoided the use of the word "police" and "policeman" for ideological reasons, and it was in fact that the militia defined itself as a force, as a service that introduces order and takes care of public order and peace, etc., but for the benefit of the people and therefore it was given the epithet of "national", which of course has its foothold in what is the meaning of this word and this service, which draws roots from ancient Rome from ancient times. The organisation of the municipal police will certainly contribute to detecting violations in the municipal order, but certainly also in prevention, prevention and prevention of violations, which is more important. In the minds of our people, it is said that if someone takes care of something, if there is something competent, if there is a possibility of taking sanctions, if there is a possibility of being warned, it will certainly take more care of its behavior and attitude towards the environment in which it lives. When we talk about powers, we must say that these powers are very broad, very important and require great responsibility, expertise and tactics. These powers, as we have said, are a warning, which I find very significant as one measure and one authority, because it can also play a educational role and that it has a really profound importance in what people's relationship to municipal order will be. However, these other measures are not at all naive, so to speak, they require great responsibility, great expertise and tact, and I believe that it is important to attach great importance to what the training of future municipal police officers is. When we talk about the organisation of the municipal militia, the local self-government unit educates the municipal police as an internal organisation within the municipal administration or city administration, then, it is said that only at least three executives, or militia officers, can form one municipal police in one municipality, in major units of local self-government can form regional organisational units, then there is the possibility of common municipal police for more municipalities, etc. However, this raises many questions as to how many municipalities that can by common act, or by agreement, make and form one municipal police force, whether or not certain instructions are needed by the ministry. I think that these open issues also provide opportunities for various improvisations and personal understanding in what should be the organisation and operation of the municipal police, such as the question and problem, I would say, however, the number of municipal militiamen in a local self-government within the common body of the municipal administration. It used to be, when it comes to the Law on the Communist Police, that 5,000 people are coming in one. I agree that it's a quantitative criterion that maybe doesn't make sense everywhere and that every local self-government, as I say, has its own needs, etc. But in any case, I think that in the next period, there will be a need to define a certain criterion and not to let it be evaluated, so to speak, by local self-governments who can stray from what is the formation, formation and modeling of the function of the municipal police. What's an interesting question is, it's a control of the operation of the municipal militia. Through the law, a provision of internal control is given where a special organisational unit is formed for the needs of internal control. I think that, that's my personal opinion, it doesn't have to be that I'm right at all, that this moment in law, so to speak, can be problematic in certain situations, because in local self-governments that, for example, will. to form a municipal police force of several or ten e.g. Communal militants, a special organisational unit of internal control, the question is how much can be really in the function of what this internal control is supposed to do. It's a small number of people, people know each other, communicate with each other, maybe they're close in some relationships, etc., so that internal control can be just an artificial expression of what it's supposed to be, it wouldn't have the right function. On the other hand, there is a danger of the instrumentisation of the municipal police in favour of certain stakeholders or perhaps even in favour of people who are politically powerful in one local self-government in which they even have supremacy or subsistence in decision-making in relation to all authorities in one local self-government, and then taking into account, for example, powers that have municipal militias, such as gathering information, video recording, audio, etc., then there may be abuse of these functions under the influence of people, without that internal control being able to correct certain deviations or certain dangers in the functioning of the municipal police. That's why I personally believe, perhaps in the next step, it will work on that so-called, if that's what we can call it, external control, although Article 33 gives, but it doesn't say anything in detail about what the minister will do with his act of control, except for what is internal control. In any case, we as an SPS, as we have heard here, will support this law and we believe that it is a good step in what is one better arrangement of the society of our local self-government and respect for one order and in what is the implementation of both laws and regulations and general acts of a local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56185	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, Section 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56186	The activity of municipal services is a sector of great importance and of the direct importance of interest for citizens, so the adoption of this law is also an important step towards the final arrangement of this sector. I must admit that I too have had this notion of "mild" even though I have heard explanations by the minister and interpretation that we have heard from the other speakers, although in principle I have realized that the goal or this part of the entire language rescribing that we are reading may be part of, although I am not a supporter of a particular resuscitation or protection of the language. We've heard that, ethically speaking, this notion is no less militant than the police, so I don't see any serious argument here, unless, from our point of view, the militia should be a militia or more merciful than this police, then it would make more sense to me than any other clarifications, even though in that case they would have to be very reserved on the power of this militia to use force, or coercion, and here I am very reserved with that member who gives the opportunity to use coercion to carry out their duties. Unlike a member in whom coercion can be used in personal defense, self-defense, defense of colleagues in the performance of his duties. I think that, given the situation in certain local administrations where very often all mechanisms are part of part-departments, I am particularly a witness to Sandzak's space, where we can witness such events on a daily basis, I'm afraid that giving power to municipal militia officers might actually be an additional mechanism in certain accounts at the place, and I think that it should be very reserved and even correct this if we don't have adequate amendments, then at least through a committee amendment why there's still a possibility. I also have this notion of controversy, given that during World War II, we had Muslim militias of Sandzaks, and that is why there is also another sound and probably something to pay attention to. Now, imagine what a municipal militia will look like, for example, to be organised by Mr. Ugljanin in local administrations where he rules, especially if he organizes it with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as organised by the Bosniak National Council. Imagine which tables will be placed if they are to be or will not be downloaded. So these are all topics for us, from our point of view, very important and very interesting, and I don't want to just put it through irony or sarcasm, but I want to draw attention to this very important question, because so far experience teaches us that in fact, we very often regulate laws quite well, whether we really want them to be good at either having certain European standards that we want or need to meet. But what happens permanently is the gap between what the law is, which is the intensity and intention and the purpose of that law is what happens at the end of the ridge, where at the beginning of the ridge we have a lot of water at the end of the ridge water either doesn't arrive or has very little or is cloudy. Now, as far as this law is concerned, especially where coercion is mentioned, where powers are given that can be used, misused, here I am quite concerned, let's say, we have the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which established a very good institute called the National Council, that is, the National Council. However, in the experience of the Bosniak National Council, we have had a catastrophic situation since 2010, and we have been waiting to correct a certain problem in the next term. Unfortunately, we still have this bigger as hostages, the incompetence of the law or the incompetence of the ministry to finally implement that law and that the law results in what is really its intention and purpose. In any case, we will support this law, but it would be very important for these objections and suggestions to be taken into consideration and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56187	I thank my colleague Zukorlic. The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56188	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic reason for the adoption of the Law on the Communist Militia is the need for the municipal militia to be educated in municipalities, because so far this possibility has not been envisaged except for cities and could have one municipal police officer on 5,000 inhabitants. The municipal militia in local self-government units is educated to carry out certain tasks in the areas of municipal activity and to protect the environment of people and goods and to provide protection and order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public facilities. Among the most important security problems in which the solution is seen the role of the municipal militia is highlighted problems in the local community, these are local traffic problems, violence against sports facilities, noise, damage to public and private property. In the functioning of municipalities, major problems have been identified in maintaining the municipal order. The organisation of a municipal militia in municipalities will contribute to the detection of violations of municipal order and preventative action in the prevention of violations, and will certainly contribute to changing citizens' awareness when it comes to communal order. Public militia business has been prescribed, as is considered by maintaining communal order. Taxes are also listed the powers of the municipal militia in the performance of alert jobs, identity checks, bringing, stopping and reviewing objects and vehicles' faces, temporary confiscation of objects, audio and video recording and use of the means of coercion and the collection of notifications. In addition, when authorised by law, other regulations or other acts of the unit of local self-government, a municipal militia officer may also issue a criminal order, file criminal charges with the competent authority as well as a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure. The obligation to adopt a strategic plan of the municipal militia by the municipal, or city council is prescribed, as well as the obligation to bring the strategic and annual work plan of the municipal militia into line with the regulations and relevant police plans. Consent to the strategic and annual work plan, the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit shall give priority to the adoption of a strategic plan of the municipal militia by the municipal, or city council and shall establish priorities based on an assessment of the existing situation, shall be given developmental, organisational, human and other guidelines. Based on the strategic plan, the annual work plan is also adopted, adopted by the municipal, or city councils, and agreed by local self-government units. In units of local self-government which educate the municipal militia in accordance with this bill, the municipal council should adopt the first strategic plan of the municipal militia within two years of the date of entry into force of the acts on education and internal arrangement of the municipal militia. The municipal militia is educated as an internal organisation unit within the municipal or city administration. The number of municipal militants within the organisation units, as my fellow MP Miletic Mihajlovic said, cannot be less than three perpetrators. The proposal for this law is also governed by the management of the municipal militia, stricter criteria for the reception of municipal militants than it implies the degree of education, that they have a certain security check, a psychophysical capacity and that they pass the test for the municipal militant. The appearance of the uniform and the marking on the uniform of municipal militiamen and the way in which the uniform is worn is prescribed by units of local self-government with the consent of the Ministry of Local Self-Government. They must clearly differ from the uniforms of the MUP. The number and manner of vehicle marking, as well as equipment, is prescribed by local self-government units according to the local self-government ministry's agreed consent. It is now foreseen as the possibility that municipal militia operations alongside unformed municipal militias in exceptional cases can also be performed by municipal militias without an official uniform marked by the written order of the chief of the municipal militia and for the sake of the more efficient performance of the business. In view of the fact that a militiaman applies powers and acts only when the perpetrator is found on the scene, which is extremely rare in cases of violations of the municipal order, such as the sale outside the sales facility, the occupation of the public area, the control of taxis, the control of the working time and the control of noise in the catering facilities, it was also necessary to provide for this possibility, so that the perpetrators do not have time to leave the place, and therefore there have been major criticisms by the citizens, and when a municipal officer comes to the scene with a label and uniform, the perpetrators can not go away and can therefore be imposed. The law also provides for the use of a sprayer with a irritable agent as an additional means of coercion. This means it can be compared to the use of the bat, saying it is a less repressive way, thus also a counter-attack, but also overcome resistance and prevent an attempt to escape. The form and manner of achieving co-operation of the municipal militia of inspection services is being prescribed by units of local self-government within three months. Also prescribed are the co-operation relations between the municipal militia and the MUP, the possibility of forming a common municipal militia for one or more units of local self-government, which is also significant from the point of view of economicism, as it provides the possibility of joining several smaller units of local self-government, internal control of the municipal militia is being introduced. It refers to the control of the use of means of coercion, which is very good, because the use of coercion is a very sensitive issue, and has caused some of the most public commentary. Another newspaper adopted by the bill is the change of the name of the municipal police to the municipal police because of the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police, which found that the right to use the police has exclusively the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. The deadline for changing the existing names and labels to the municipal militia, in the budgets of municipalities and cities that want to educate the municipal militia, is also set to provide additional resources for education and for the start of work, as well as for training and training of municipal militias, taking into account the decision and the maximum number of employees in local self-government units. Increased budget revenues from payment of fines for violations can be expected. The communal militia should contribute to better protection and property and people in local self-government units. The preventive action and pre-warning of violations of the municipal order is what is expected and what is the main objective of the adoption of this law, the introduction of a municipal militia in municipalities is also accompanied by modern trends that highlight the new role of local communities in maintaining communal and second order and in strengthening their partnership with police. Finally, Your Honor, I would like to commend you, given your day-to-day obligations, you find time and a tour of the local environments, to familiarize yourself with the problems facing local self-government units. On such a visit you were also in the Vrbas municipality and I thank you once again for your time to visit and listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56189	I'd like to thank my colleague, Marash. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56190	Dear Minister Ruzic, Mr. Kasalovic, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia that is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis, and in the Serbian Parliament I represent the USS and I was elected from the SNS list. I will vote in favour of this bill, because it is necessary that in small municipalities, they have the opportunity to form a municipal militia and thus solve their problems. The problems are piled up and I think we need these problems to solve, but it's always to be preventive, without sanctions and punishment. Once again, I will vote in favour of this bill as MP, President of the USS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56191	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric, not present. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56192	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reasons for the adoption of the law on the municipal militia are not only in changing terms – the police, which is used, but there are many amendments and newspapers with which we must first meet the citizens here. I'll only deal with some of them. First of all, the aim of passing such a law is to increase the efficiency and responsibility of the municipal militia, in order to give citizens better protection than those who violate the municipal order. I will try to see the expected effects of the application of this law through its application in the local, local, self-government units so that we can see on concrete examples what the municipal police are doing now and what its powers and obligations will be. The municipal militia will be formed at the level of cities and municipalities, as part of the city's or municipal administration. The abolition of the provision so far that the number of municipal police officers is determined by the arrival of a single police officer on 5,000 people, will have a direct positive effect for the citizens, but also for employees who will perform their duties more effectively and easily. Now every local self-government according to needs will determine the number of municipal militiamen. I have here in front of me a report from the National Police in Nis for January-June of this year, for the first six months from which we can see that there is now a need for a larger number of employees. Currently, the municipal police in Nis have 40 municipal police officers. From this report, we can see that there were 195 assistants, with the Directorate for Public Transport of the City of Nis, with the Directorate for the Construction of the City and with the City Administration, more specifically with the Youth and Sports Secretariat, and there was also assistance in municipal inspections in the city's municipalities of Nis and assistance with the State Department for the inspection of the city of Nis, so a total of 195 assistants. Also, we can see that there were 708 misdemeanors. The most infringement orders, in particular 163 were for the disposal of municipal waste outside the container, referring to public hygiene and 153 orders for parked vehicles on the public green surface. Why did I bring up all this data now? You will agree that maintaining the municipal order will be much better with a number of employees, especially considering that Nis has five city municipalities that are not local self-government units and that the practical city will determine the number of municipal militias according to current needs. In this sense, this law will help greatly and do much. And other proposed solutions will affect the increased work of the municipal militia on the one hand, and the better quality of life of citizens on the other hand, because the detection and sanctioning of violations of the municipal order will be greater, but there will be greater prevention of these violations and the work of the municipal militia will be more effective, for example, civil work under the orders of the Commissioner of the municipal militia, recording evidence of violations, stopping and reviewing the vehicle, issuing orders to remove illegally parked vehicles and illegal dumps, and these are just some of the new powers of future municipal militias. For all of these reasons, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to support this bill, because it will absolutely affect the quality of our citizens' lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56193	The word has a People's MP Momo Colakovic, not here. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56194	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, are two key reasons why the new law on the municipal militia was joined. One law is because of the change of name itself, and another law because, under earlier law, local self - administrations, or municipalities, could not form a municipal police force, or militia, although there was a need for such a thing. It was a fundamental dilemma called to bear this organ. Well, you've kind of been looking and trying to take over from everyone and eventually we get a mix. This government is known for it, and that gives no good results. Maybe it's best if it's called the communal national militia, I guess it hurts the least. Now, my colleague Zukorlic, he's not a terrible name for the militia. Here in the O.R. is not currently a colleague of Petar Jojic, when she was called the militia. He organized it, he did it. Some citizens of Serbia and the place he lived had maximum confidence in the militia, so they left when they left their homes, leaving the keys to apartments, houses, that particular militia. I have a feeling, Mr. Minister, that you and your associates, this isn't personal, you didn't really know what you wanted to do with this law. Most colleagues say there is a possibility now that local self-government, i.e. The municipalities are introducing a municipal militia. Of the 29 cities of the municipal police, eight cities had no history at all after ten years of application of this law, I don't know the status of Bora, he recently gained the status of the city, so maybe for those reasons he couldn't even have the municipal police. At the time, the municipal police had not delivered a report to the three cities at all. Is that possible? It's one seriousness. We want to talk a little bit about this orderly system. Second, when you say uniform. The decision on appearance, colour and labelling will be made by local self-government. I can only imagine what it would look like, of course, with the consent of the State Department and local self-government, I can imagine what it would look like. Two, three cops, three local militiamen, or communal, what can they do? There's a problem here. This should not be seen from the aspect of repression, but rather preventive. How many local self-governments, and colleagues here, were the problems in local self-government? How many local self-governments, or their chosen personnel, have the potential and opportunity to contribute to the solution to these problems? Mr. Minister, you've been to a local self-government, whose name I won't say now, and you as a ministry have done enough. Some objects blossomed afterwards, and there was a presence. And what are the people who stayed there to run that local community, what did they do next? Then they needed to visit you in Belgrade. Is the problem solved? It's not. Thus, the problem will not be resolved by introducing, or leaving the possibility of local self-government having its own municipal militias. So that problem won't be solved that way at any time. It's a uniform job. It is unacceptable for us, or they can perform without uniform, with the special consent of the Commissioner of the Communist Police. In small towns, everyone knows each other, and they know that somebody's a communal cop or that he's not. What are we supposed to expect from municipal militias and rooms? What are you trying to say? And Mr. Mogiæ, you know that in these public hearings, or as it is now modern and popular, and for us, the most important thing is for a certain law to come into the process by being done by a certain commission, by the competent ministries, sometimes it takes more to give consent to the committees, and what comes into the assembly procedure. Public hearings, public lectures and all that, it doesn't matter that much to us. But how much of the suggestions that you have received from these public hearings have been accepted. I spoke to you because you've been following it more regularly, I suppose. The minister comes when these public lectures or listening, opens up that rally, and then because of some obligations he goes on, you stay. How much of these suggestions are accepted? Here, about a municipal militiaman can attend, i.e. to enable a local company to water, sewer or other municipal activity to collect claims from citizens with the help of a local militiaman. Aren't they a little so-called. Public perpetrators who peel Serbian citizens now need to do so with the help of the municipal militia. You know that at first, and maybe it was DS that introduced that communal police to hire their active or interesting personnel. But you didn't give it up. You moved on, you accepted it. Now, here's a little more modernizing. That doesn't have any results. And in the beginning, rather, the very negative reaction of Serbian citizens was to these municipal police officers. I'm not always saying she was completely justified. You didn't understand a colleague named Nemanja Sarovic when he said, who people appear there when they sell, they come under the influence of the municipal police. No one justifies it. We're just talking about what the situation is. When you said 40,000 improperly parked vehicles, etc. I don't mean the driver who parked on the tram tracks, I don't mean the driver who parked on the green surface, or at the entrance, but I mean those who don't have other options. Don't we look at the situation, so we're doing this preventively, and only if we need those communal police, or some other repressive organ to bring it in. So, you need to run an analysis of why something that is, is. There's a possibility that a municipal militiaman will stop the vehicles now. You're saying whether he's driving a utility, construction or some other guy into a junkyard, so where he's gonna dump it and the like, in one day from Loznica to Lyubia 70, 75 kilometers, six patrols from the border regular police stopped me and it's not a problem, an honest man, and there shouldn't be any problem, and six times when someone stops taking some time and all it took was another municipal militiaman in some colorful or some other uniform to stop, not me, but any man. What's it gonna look like tomorrow when there's a situation like that? You leave the possibility either it is or it isn't, or there's a need for something or it's not. And it wasn't that long ago that the municipal police were bringing in citizens who didn't have a bus-plus card and didn't want to leave the vehicle or when the man after the conflict with the municipal police had a heart attack and ended his life. You were supposed to run an analysis of the current state, see what can be done without this repressive measure, and then access these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56195	Thank you, colleague Perich. Comrade Markovic, do you want a replica? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56196	Very brief chairman. Two things have been questioned here. I'm glad that the previous speaker admitted that, and that's what he said himself that Gilas tried to make a party army of his own in time, but what I can't accept is that he said that we continued it. I presented the information, and I want to bring out the citizens, so the SNS from the moment it took responsibility for the exercise of power in the city of Belgrade has hired, or the city of Belgrade has received 10 municipal police officers. What a party army, 10 police officers have been admitted into a working relationship since the SNS was in power in Belgrade. The data that goes into this is that at this point in Belgrade there are about 360 municipal police officers, and the real need is for about 1000, and that is a minimum figure of 1000. Well, if we wanted to create a party army, I guess we'd have hired more people by now. We heard we didn't know exactly what we wanted to achieve with this law. We knew clearly what we wanted to achieve by this law, and that's the communal order. So, we want communal order, we want an orderly system, we want to prevent and sanction municipal mess and chaos! That's what the basic objective of this law is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56197	Do you want a replica? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56198	I wasn't talking to my colleague Markovic. Of course, we know when this law was passed, when it was first introduced by the municipal police and how it worked. I wanted here some dilemmas that the Serbian Radical Party has, above all, sourced from the needs of Serbian citizens, to share with the competent minister, to see what he means and to point to that. We also have some amendments and they are very professional and detailed. That's what we're going to do when there's a debate in particular, to see if there's a way to solve it, if there's already some way to solve the problem. Who's going to be hired and how, we understand that. We see from other jobs who are employed and how they are employed. And very often the ministers here say there are no restrictions on employment, that whenever they have a need, when there are high-quality professional staffs that can be employed. And during yesterday, the minister of education said they do not have almost any information service where they could affirm the outstanding success of our students and students in international competitions. And it's not true that there's no employment. He has it, but it is controlled and it goes exclusively through the Serbian Progressive Party and other parties that make up that power. Are you sure you'll be hiring in some local self-government, not you, I suppose, to decide these local self-governments, but where it is necessary, where under this law local self-government will get conditions and get the opportunity to hire, hire the best municipal militant, or there will be a prominent activist of the Serbian Progressive Party or some other party that supports power. It's been so far, it'll be in the future. A long time ago, or regime, both before you and you, you're leading exclusively, I can't say negatively that personnel selection, but it's present. So it is necessary to be a member of the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56199	Thank you. Comrade Markovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56200	I don't know, Chairman, on what basis you've now given the previous speaker a replica, because I didn't mention either his MP group or him personally, I just answered some of the doubts that obviously remain. So, when it comes to employment, I really have no intention of repeating for the third time -- the Serbian Progressive Party has not hired anyone, 10 municipal police officers have been admitted in years as long as the Serbian Progressive Party is managing Belgrade. So there's no talking about any employment, no party army. When it comes to future employment, of course it will be. With this law, we are making assumptions about this future employment, because Belgrade needs a larger number of municipal police officers and there is nothing controversial about it. It takes a thousand, and we've got 300 and something. Employment criteria are something else, and they're sharpened by this very law. So, so far, there have been weaker criteria, if that's what I can say, and right now this law strengthens the criteria and introduces certain newspapers in that sense. When it comes to employment at some other levels, etc., in particular, education is mentioned. The other day we were here discussing the Law on Science and Research and we were taxing how many states, I can't say employment, but it takes into some kind of working relationship just scientific researchers. And we've just provided data on how many people that might be and the only source of income are, in a way, employed as scientific researchers. And if you're saying it's bad, I can't agree with that. If you're saying it's bad that 12 and a half thousand currently have scientific researchers who are somehow funded by the state, whether through project funding, whether through the Ministry of Education, I can't agree. I think she's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56201	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56202	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like, not to enter a controversy that is always fruitful in parliament, to point to some of the things that have been brought here. First of all, I want to remind the public that this Law on the Communist Police then, i.e. amendments and additions, was ready in 2015 and that because of the choices that were made in 2016, it did not enter this home, but it entered the procedure. At that time, all the changes needed to repair some shortcomings, shortcomings in practice itself, were already located. You mentioned that in these ten years out of 29 cities a respectable number of cities did not report. I just want to remind you that in these ten years some of these cities have not had the status of the city. So, I'm talking about Kikinda, Vrsec, Pirot, Boro, the Cup. Also, as far as the public debate is concerned, it was conducted from February 15th to March 6th. You mentioned Mr. Mogic. He, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, has no right to speak, but I just want to remind, also because of the public, that various ideas have been presented during this public debate. Much of them were very constructive and a large part of these topics were respected and incorporated in this bill, whether we are talking about the status of an authorised official, whether we are talking about it or about the requirement that the current municipal police officers enter into force by a new law of automation are being translated and given the title and status of municipal militants and the rights of the same, without further training and training. The theme of helping other management organisations is also incorporated. As regards the concept and performance of jobs, way of doing business, internal control, authority, stopping the vehicle, bringing the person, everything we have said since this morning, video surveillance, how to apply authority to minors, conditions for establishing a working relationship, disciplinary procedure, i.e. serious violations of duty from working relationship, official legitimacy and badges, vehicles, vessels and equipment and protection of municipal militants. So, I would still say that public debates are one, I would say, a valuable and healing way to get exactly of those most involved in our society precisely in this sphere of our lives to hear what is constructive and that, of course, it is also found in the bill of law. I think this is quite the answer to what was asked here as a question. Thank you. (Greto Peric: I'm reporting for word.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56203	Thank you. You just got the answer to the questions you asked. You didn't mention directly to have a basis for replication. (Greto Peric: The minister replied to me. Here you go, if you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56204	Mr. Minister, when it comes to a public debate, we don't argue about it, but we don't miss it, we're for a public debate, however, it doesn't have to happen to us. This second procedure is important to us. The laws are being passed here. That's one thing. Secondly, when I said that you didn't understand enough what you wanted, whether it's being introduced, or not being introduced by the municipal militia. You will now answer me, so it depends on the means of local self-government. It depends on the funds of local self-government, when it comes to its president or president. Some local self-government may not have the means to do so, but we do, and we should have and then we should have communal police. Either we have it, or we don't have it. Here in the list of cities that have not formed the municipal police are those who have the status of the city at the time of the adoption of this law. Also, for Bor I pointed out, he was later formed, but there are several cities, Smederevo, Loznica, Kruševac, did not deliver that report at all. What's going to happen, is the municipal police and the municipal police, when we've seen some irregularities we've been talking about, we don't expect them to rag holes, but can a company commit themselves to doing it? Can she commit? Will it be in the jurisdiction of a municipal police officer, or the municipal police, or already the militia, to waste, packaging waste, which is delayed where anyone gets and burns even, will this utility be obliged to collect, store and even pay the companies that will drive from certain local self-government to solve it? That's what needs to be defined and to know if the real quality of life, and environmentally observed and economically, will affect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56205	Thank you, colleague Perich. Honorable MPs, according to members 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break by 16 hours, when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56206	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs, or parliamentary groups, to submit applications for asking questions if they have not already done so. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly by giving the first word to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first elected MP is Ambassador Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56207	Ladies and gentlemen, dearly present, my question concerns the Bosniak national council, more specifically what the government, or the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, will do to finally introduce the Bosniak National Council, namely that this body and this body established under the Law on the Rights of National Minorities finally function in the purpose in which it is organized. In fact, it is known that the system of national councils was established since 2003, that in 2010, we chose the councils, i.e. larger in the direct elections, but here in the case of the Bosniak National Council since 2010, we have absolute lawlessness. Later expectations that this will still be arranged, but as you could have witnessed, this body does not continue to serve the exercise of rights, the collective rights of the Bosniak national community, but is actually used for personal and party purposes. In recent days, we have had the culmination of these problems, and unfortunately, we have repeatedly pointed to this problem and the materials and memos that we delivered to the competent ministry, however, apparently individual officials in this ministry, I don't know for what reasons, but in personal relations, not to say some more difficult word, blessings and support such functioning in the council. My second question concerns the construction of the Tutin-Novi Pazar road, so, a few months ago we got...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56208	Excuse me, MP. Please send Natasu Jovanovic to either sit down or...? (Natasa Jovanovic: No, we are leaving. ) Okay, and that's fine, just don't disturb the MP who asks the question. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56209	A few months ago we're here in this room by the competent ministry we've been informed that in June of the launch of the work on the road of Novi Paz-Senica, June at the outset, what's going on, whether it's a minimal delay, we want to get information about it. Certainly another question related to information on the construction of a certain free zone on the Cave. So, if you remember in 2009 in the presence of then Turkish President Duo Gul, construction of a certain project, known as "Ljesk's Siti", was announced, then we have no information about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56210	Thank you. Time. Here you go. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56211	Thank you. I am pleased to have the opportunity to address the MPs again today and answer your questions, at the same time to underline some of the successes of the results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I also wanted to inform you or remind you that it is true, about tomorrow, two years ago in this respected home, I presented my exposés, a programme for the work of this government of the Republic of Serbia, and then, the day after that, we received the support of the majority. I will hold a press conference with my team on Monday for practically two years of government work, that as we did for the first anniversary of government work, I will report to you and the citizens on what we have done and what are the challenges and what are further plans. As far as the questions of the honourable MP, above all about the BNV, therefore, the Bosniak National Council, are we going to put in order, you know that this is an extremely complex, extremely sensitive issue. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proud that we really respect the world's greatest standards for national minorities and how we have introduced, how we respect and strengthen the institutes of national councils of national minorities. I say world standards because what the Republic of Serbia is doing exceeds European standards in respect of national minorities, i.e. the rights and freedoms of national minorities. As for BNV, we carefully analyze what happens first of all for real, I would say the unfortunate statements by Mr. Ugljanin, who called Serbia or called the most ugly names of fascist creation through various insults, the type that Stefan Nemanja was a war criminal, etc., we have not responded so far because we do not consider it serious statements or statements that are in any case beyond what I said. So, unfortunate statements from a man who was a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2014, and then the Republic of Serbia was not a fascist form, so it is unfortunate to have people who change their minds, their views and their statements depending on whether they are in power or not in power, and Mr. Ugljanin is absolutely the most drastic example. Certainly, as the President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, last time he was in the Assembly, spoke, so the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have absolutely no reason to be concerned, we will not react to provocations because it is practically the only thing Mr. Ugljanin would want right now. As you know, a BNV session was held in Novi Pazar on June 24th where National Council President Jasmina Curic, elected instead of Esad Djudz, who resigned the same day, I will leave Minister Ruzic to say something about this, but I ask you for an understanding because we are really trying very hard not to interfere in the work of national councils of national minorities, as long as it is not absolutely necessary. So we stay open to communicate with you, with all the members of the National Council of this national minority, but if there are any indications at some point that we should interfere, we will interfere. At this point, we're monitoring the situation, but that's what happens to most of the people in this National Council. As for the Tutin-New Market road, it's really working in a minimal delay. I expect that immediately after the release of the Kuzmin-Sremska Raca road, which I expect now in July, it is possible and hopefully with a return visit from Serbia by President of Turkey, Mr Erdogan, that we will go immediately after that to build, start construction of Tutin-Novi Pazar, so it is either July or August. So, minimum delay. As for the free zone on the Cave, I have to go back to you with feedback, and I don't have that information right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56212	The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56213	Thank you. Dear MPs, precisely on the trail of what the Prime Minister said, I can only give you information that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has made a request to the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority, to provide us with all relevant information regarding this famous initiative to resolve the status of Bosniaks and the status of the region. The collection of documents is ongoing. The National Council of the Bosniak National Minority delivered documents from the Executive Board. The law clearly provides that this decision is valid when the National Council is adopted. So we got that decision from the Executive Board, and what we certainly expect is that all documents be delivered. After that, given that the Ministry is carrying out administrative supervision and that the administrative inspection has a work cycle, it can follow, I would say, an inspection of the administrative inspection. For now, this is the only valid information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56214	Thank you. Here you go, Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56215	I am fully aware, and my question did not go in the direction that the ministry's position should now be dealt with with with by Ugljanin's statements. So it's clear what purpose and background and desire is. So what I want to draw attention to is the legality of a larger operation and especially conditions so that it can function normally. I'm, like, a councilman, and that's why I'm a witness to all sorts of events. I was only able to attend the first constitutive session, and I couldn't go to the sessions anymore because first technically it works in one room, which has neither natural nor artificial ventilation. Since those people who have been sitting there for years, they've obviously gotten used to these conditions, after half an hour, you're already losing oxygen and you're probably voting for anything that's proposed. If that's the intention, it's very effective. On the other hand, at the entrance to that building there are people who, by profile, belong to criminal-hooligan miles, tattooed, even a councilman can't enter the building until he puts a signature on a list before, on the street, standing on the street, you have to sign it, and now you're an opposition councilman, you can not give a quorum, you can talk whatever you want, but they keep the list and they say – here's the quorum. In doing so, there was neither a microphone nor a pay phone for the debaters, there was nothing, there was no discussion. No adoption of the agenda. It's all in memos neatly delivered to the Ministry. I'm just curious. The group I'm leading has 13 councilmen. I just want them to be able to function there in opposition, normal. They can't function there. They are also exposed to physical abuses and verbal abuses, and we are actually asking the ministry to do just that, that it enables normal work in the council, and as far as most – minorities' relations are concerned, it is generally known. As far as these uses and abuses are concerned, I understand perfectly what the goal is, but the fact that Suleiman Ugljanin does not have most of them there without the support of other factors. The question is, why is he being supported, not only here, but in local self-governments where he has certain coalition relations, and that's something that opens up questions that we can't properly answer. These are political issues, however, there is no need for the government to give me answers. I am interested in legality and conditions, the legal conditions in which we will be able to function normally, so that the majority and journalists will not be harassed and disturbed to attend, to discuss, to make it work more according to the Rules of Procedure. That's over there, so there's no one there. So that's my question and my desire to have a final answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56216	Thank you. The word is Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56217	I thank you, MP. I apologize that I did not point out in this opening statement that you were indeed a representative of the list, pointing to allegations of irregularities in the very procedure of functioning of the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority. What I can tell you is that certainly the administrative inspection team will carry out an inspection, because yours, I would say, are a number of requests that you have sent, and after obtaining all relevant information, as well as in this previous case, we will act as only and we can only by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56218	Thank you. Commentary, Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56219	You have yet another illegality today, today is the deadline for adoption of the budget, i.e. the Bosniak National Council's financial plan. Here, I'm a councilman, I'm not invited to attend this session right now, so that means that in a few hours, that deadline will expire. I suppose the ministry will respond in accordance with the law. I want to thank you for the information about the Novo Pazar-Tutin station, because it really is a traffic station that, as you know from the media, has taken a lot of, unfortunately, very lot of young lives. It is still so, and I am pleased that it will not be significantly delayed, but that the works will soon start, as they are further announced towards the Sjenica, and you also know for yourself that I have become simply obsessed with the theme of Corridor 11, here even in one discussion I have offered to use some of my links related to possible investors, i.e. financials and those shares, especially if the government would decide on concessions, because there are serious candidates of the world and European profile. Indeed, the situation in Sandzak is depressing and I think we're going to have the first detachment through that highway and through these roads, and I definitely expect further efforts to be made from the position of the government and to start with the opening of the factory, because we see that it is possible to bring foreign investors. If possible Krupanj, Mali Zvornik and Loznica, then it is likely that Novi Pazar and other parts of Sandzak are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56220	Thank you. Next MP, Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56221	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, MPs, my first question concerns the Minister of Agriculture. I would like you to inform the citizens of Serbia with which African states we have signed export agreements from Serbia to these African countries of agricultural products? That's one question. The second question is, do you know what the price of cereals will be and do you advise farmers to hand the grain over to buyers immediately after harvesting or to wait a little while because those who wait always get a slightly higher price? You have a little better information. A question and a proposal from the finance minister to get into the Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly that those who are on permanent work, and not coming to work, cannot receive salaries, as workers go to factories, businesses, schools, hospitals, if they do not come to work for two days, they know what's coming. That's what I mean about MPs from the opposition, they say – we work in the field. Well, were you now when there was a flood and a higher power next to the Danube, or on the left bank of the Danube? No, you weren't, he was Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and because he appeared he has a responsibility that 102 liters of rain fell to one square metre. Let's see what their work report is. The Rules of Procedure must introduce what is the work of the MP in parliament, not that Serbian citizens vote, that the MP should receive a salary, a job, a job, a convenience, and I can freely say an unfettered job, and he is not in the workplace because he is angry with someone. Well, 90% of the employees don't like a director in a work organisation, and what now, he hates the director, he doesn't have to go to work. This is what I'm telling you, Mr. Finance Minister, seriously to take. Since I have heard that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Serbia will be corrected, we must insert that item. Someone can't take over 100,000 dinars and have lunch and breakfast for 180 dinars, and that money is paid by those who are flooded, paid for by those who have other problems. The money is used by pensioners, by those who once lived in Kosovo and Metohija, so they fled to Serbia, and the opposition, let's see if they were anywhere in Kosovo, is that the terrain? Come on, we were in some community, we were in North Mitrovica, so we worked that day for those citizens who live there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56222	Thank you, MP, you'll have a chance yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56223	What are you yelling at, you SNS MPs? This subject doesn't suit you, does it? You don't like what I'm saying about pay?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56224	The question is, I think, Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic, right? (Alexander Martinovic: What is this way? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56225	I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the opposition. I'm sorry, but I'm talking about the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56226	I don't know how it worked for MP Dragan Markovic to draw attention to the MPs' reaction from the government. I ask Minister Nedimovic to answer a part of the question concerning the work of his ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56227	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, Mr Markovic, regarding this first issue concerning exports to African countries, you know that for many years in the old Yugoslavia, one of the main markets on which the old Yugoslavia placed food products was the market for Africa, the Middle East market. Almost the last 30, 40 years there has been almost no placement and in the last few years efforts have been made in that direction. I assume the most you think of the Egyptian market, where you yourself participated in front of the Republic of Serbia and negotiated with Egyptian officials. Yes, we received a permit in March, or certificate for the export of Serbian wheat to the territory of Egypt. I'll just say that Egypt represents the world's largest importer of wheat and about 10 million tons a year he imports wheat. Reminders for the sake of this, Serbia, at its best years, as it was in 2018, had some over three million tonnes of wheat. With this certificate, we've been given the opportunity to participate in the tenders. Within the framework of an international consortium of Serbian companies, they also participated in a single tender for exports of wheat to the territory of Egypt, and we expect results. What we have at this point as a market situation, and it's about wheat... [[Dragan Markovic: Maja, I hear nothing from the minister what he says from the noise.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56228	Please, Minister, a little louder just to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56229	I apologize if I've been quiet. (Dragan Markovic: No, no, it's a noise in parliament. ) The price of wheat at the moment it is operated on Serbia's space is at one of the record levels in the past few years, about 24 dinars per kilogram, and that's a good thing. This is due to a number of things that have happened on the market in the environment. We had large droughts around us in the previous 2018. The wheat last year wasn't that high-quality, but it reached a high price again. What's going on this year? This year certainly the expectations have increased, precisely because of that price that is for old wheat, 24 dinars on the stock market are traded, but I expect somewhere around 21 dinars, so we can come at that price, although these days different things are also placed on the disinformation of 16, 18 dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia, along with its stock reserves, will come out next week with one quantity to buy and try to wake up the market with the figure. This morning I spoke with the president of the Association of Cereals, discussing the quality of the wheat, currently due to enter its harvest in the next ten days. We had extremely unfavourable circumstances when we sow wheat, the land was very dry, although last year, there in April, May, was very full of moisture, but in October, the land was dry. After that, we had problems in the first month, in March of the month, when it was going to develop intensively, we had a lot of problems, but later that wheat conditioning somehow replaced in April or May of the month. It's not the same situation everywhere. I just spoke to some colleagues who are dealing with agricultural production, in their regions wheat is not such a good quality, it has had a lot of diseases, but, for example, in the area of South and Srem County, wheat is a very good quality, and there we can expect good offerings. To conclude, this year we will certainly have about a million tonnes of wheat to export, so we will be able to compete on markets and Africa. We won't have a year as a previous one, because something was smaller and sown wheat, about 570,000 hectares. I expect that the average yield will be close to 4.7 to 4.8 tonnes per hectare, I am talking about the whole of Serbia, which will give us a contribution of 2.5 to 2.7 million tonnes somewhere. For us, for the country of Serbia, 1.5 million is enough, this remains for export. I want to say a few more things. In addition, we have opened the markets of African countries for our fruits and for our meat. We have some problems, for example, with Morocco, Algeria, for one simple reason, they have a free trade agreement with the European Union. We do not have a free trade agreement with these countries and we must enter into negotiations with them, because our agricultural products are burdened with levies when we export goods there with 20% and 30%. In particular, the Morocco market is interesting because it pays well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56230	Thank you. Do you want another question to ask the minister? (Dragan Markovic: I asked the Minister of Finance. ) I hope that it will not respond in a way that the executive power begins to control the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56231	No, thank you very much. Mr Markovic, honourable MPs, unfortunately, I cannot comment on your question, since, to remind you, you control us, not us, so that the way you regulate the work of the National Assembly depends on you MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56232	I thank the Minister. National MP Dragan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56233	I'm not happy with the answer, but it doesn't matter. A question for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy -- how can we stop women who are at a certain time in various factories, state, social and private companies when they have a child who expires their contract and loses their jobs? How can we prevent that by some regulation? I know the government had a good attitude when it comes to this problem, but it still happens in Serbia that women are out of work and they get fired from maternity leave. I ask the question, I don't know who might answer that from the ministers, what should we call the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and the fees that have been introduced? Is this humanitarian aggression, as NATO has attacked Serbia with bombs, and we have called it NATO aggression and what terms to use and to let the citizens of Serbia know what countries that support Kosovo Albanians are to go beyond all agreements, contracts, acts nowhere, that they have the right to bring Serbs into the situation in Kosovo and Metohija to have nothing to eat, to have no milk for children, that there will be no drugs in the pharmacy, that they can't be treated and so on? What do we tell the citizens? I'd like one of you to answer that question for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56234	I thank you, Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56235	I thank you for asking. Good afternoon, everyone. Of course we know about this problem and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, has initiated this, amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children and, among other things, we are thinking about what measures to take and how to prevent such things from happening in the future. There's a lot of suggestions, not just for that problem and some other problems we're dealing with. I believe that we will go out in public very quickly and tell you and come here to the Assembly what we have predicted, but what I can assure you we certainly know about this problem and one of the things that will be one of the measures will be right in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56236	Thank you. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56237	I'm just going to take a quick look at the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and what we can call it and how I've been trying on many occasions and lately and visiting London, and visiting the Republic of France to talk and to meet people about these taxes. I would say that we often talk about this administratively, as a direct violation of the CEFTA Agreement, the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, an agreement signed in 2006, as EU representatives also said, is also a direct violation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed by the provisional institutions in Pristina with the European Commission, but human beings cannot call it otherwise than an act of the most brutal and direct violation of fundamental human rights and the freedom of people living in Kosovo and Metohija. It is nothing but a civil act, contrary to all EU standards, European values and global civilization standards, which today 21st century talk about the free flow of goods, services and people. It is not a civil act and the most brutal act against human rights and freedoms of Serbian but also other non-Albanian populations in Kosovo and Metohija. We will continue to talk, we will continue to fight for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and we will continue to fight that everyone in the whole region at least respects those most basic civilization standards which, unfortunately, at this point, Pristina absolutely does not respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56238	Here's a comment. We apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56239	We all know how Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija and we know how certain countries behave and that there is continuity in it. I think that maybe we should take a little more advantage of those countries that are not in the EU, which are great friends of Serbia, and ask them to, when they come to Serbia, take them to northern Mitrovica, to the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, and that they personally make sure that Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija. I can also say that the international policy of this country is very high, that the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is fighting well, is protecting Serbia well. Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic also. I have to go back to the opposition, you don't have to have some function, because the function is obtained through the voters when it comes to elections. You can't just attack and criticize all the time, at least now, here's my call to the opposition, I haven't seen a single statement when it comes to taxes and humanitarian disaster in Kosovo and Metohija, which is what their message is, what their programme is, and I tell you, raises a little bit more tension for Serbian citizens with messages that are false, messages that can't be denied right now. So I'm not going to say we're passive, but I mean, I don't like the Malloy Minister's answer, he says, we're proposing and we're making a decision. Well, it is, but I don't care what the Ministers say about those non-workers and don't come to work. This is about the money of Serbian citizens and those who receive salaries in parliament must earn money. This here is a machine, a string, and behind the machine MPs have to be, not in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56240	Thank you for your comment, MP, Markovic. The next one is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56241	Thank you. There are no majority of opposition colleagues here, I think it's a shame, but it's known that they are boycotting and that's why they boycott the sessions, but I notice, Madam Prime Minister, that your ranks are a little bit dilated, or none of the vice-presidents of the government I see around you, there are ministers. But it's not a problem that there's no Deputy Prime Minister but that these are the people I wanted to ask you some questions, so you're going to have to take charge of it for them. So there is no Mr. Ivica Dacic, first vice president, no Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic, no Rasim Ljajic and no Zorana Mihajlovic. All four vice presidents, I assume, are justifiably absent. Yes, there is not even Mr. Vladan Vukosavljevic, whom I also wanted to ask. So we're going to start with the easiest and simplest question for you, in fact, which is your assessment, I suppose, that it couldn't have done it without your decision, or government decision, forced or broken that Minister Djordjevic went on a trip to Maldives, to participate in the Forum – Investment of the state of Maldives, and what important state job was it to send the Minister of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs to Maldives to promote or contribute to investment in the state of Maldives? Besides the minister, if someone was supposed to go, we have a foreign minister, we have a minister of tourism, we have a minister of sports, so maybe they could. Anyway, it's less important, but it can be interesting, my second question is more important, is why, why, maybe Minister Mali can answer, why does the state sell its stake in the Commercial Bank? That's what I asked the other day here, and I expect a written answer, but it's not bad live either. I believe that there is some economic philosophy that Minister Mali respects and adopts, and I suppose that he is consistent because he was also engaged in the business of the Privatisation Agency in the early 2000s, but I know that this ruling majority has highly eloquently criticised the practice of some other authorities at the time, the government to sell out, sell out state property, were particularly sensitive to the sale of banks, and we have come to the situation that we practically have more banks, except for the Post Office's savings company with domestic property. The arm of the itch doesn't scratch, if bad management, if it works badly, you change the bank's management, and you give other capable people you allegedly have in your ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56242	Thank you, you'll continue in the next, your three minutes are up. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56243	First, I want to tell you that all members of the government who are not in the Assembly at this time are absolutely rightly absent. We, tomorrow on Vidovdan, have a large number of really great events that show that Serbia is moving, as it develops, among other things, and the opening of an airport in the Kingdom, which I believe will be extremely important for the whole part of Serbia, but certainly for all citizens of Serbia, in general. Minister Dacic is abroad, doing his job, and Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic is in the Kingdom, Minister Stefanovic is at an international police exercise in Nis, Minister Vukosavljevic in Bac, where we ended up together with the EU reconstruction of the base fortress that is opening today. So, in any case, everyone is on their work assignments, working for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have good successes, we will present some things tomorrow, some things the day after tomorrow in Somboro, some things Monday, but I can assure you that all are absent for justified reasons and you will see yourself as citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the results. As for Minister Djordjevic's journey, but in the end, and the travel of other members of the government, I would say that because of the huge number of activities we have in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, often if you paid attention in the previous period we had to take some of the responsibilities from different resolutions because we were doing a couple of different things at the same time. Prime Minister Dacic, Deputy Prime Minister Dacic could not be in the Maldives at that time, which are an extremely important, extremely important potential partner to us, above all, regarding Kosovo and Metohija and Minister Djordjevic jumped in and travelled to Maldives. In the Maldives, unlike some MPs, he did not spend his time, he was in the Maldives, exactly one day, which, believe me, I would not wish for anyone, nor would anyone wish for himself to go 15 hours to Maldives for one day, he has six bilateral meetings and then goes back to Serbia and travels another 15 hours, but it is necessary and we will be everywhere in all countries, in all parts of this globe if he is to fight for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, for the interest of the Republic of Serbia of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So he changed the Deputy Prime Minister Dacic there and was in the Maldives for one day with six bilateral meetings. Also, as I was representing Serbia at the 100th anniversary of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva, where I was sitting with Prime Minister Burkina Faso, where we also discussed the Kosovo and Metohija issue, in order to explain to them some countries that have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, what has been happening in the last 11 years, as the situation on the ground has changed, what the Republic of Serbia has all done to dialogue with Pristina, in the interest of regional stability of better citizens and how Pristina does not accept and that we call on those people to consider whether they have made the right decision after these 10, 11 years, to look at the situation on the ground and to think about whether they have at that moment made the right decision. Unfortunately, in most of these conversations, here I have had this situation in conversation with the Prime Minister of Burkina Faso, and you know what he said to me? In 2010, we saw that our decision was not contrary to the International Court of Justice, i.e. with International Law, because the International Court said, therefore, on the initiative of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and then you today, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, find yourself in a situation where someone from a meeting to a meeting from Maldives to Burkino Faso, tells you that what your foreign minister did in 2010, is the biggest argument that they were right, that they did not violate international law when they recognised Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. Even so, despite the obstacles we face today, thanks to the incredibly irresponsible policy of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we will continue to fight. As for the Commercial Bank, we can discuss today, I will, of course, leave the finance minister to talk a little bit about it, but I will tell you this, we can discuss today whether the privatisation of the Commercial Bank is good or not. My personal opinion is that it is good and that it is in the interest of both the banking sector and the Republic of Serbia, but even in the government, we have different opinions on this issue. I don't think the state is the best possible bank manager, I think, and I've always been afraid and I'm still afraid when I think about the sustainability of what we're doing, that sometimes, it's certainly not real that soon, but at some point someone else is going to take over government functions. If you have a "Commercial Bank", you can have people in the future who will use these things to extract state money, for party financing, they will not be in the interest of the stability of the state, and we have seen it so many times in the last, decades and a half, but will be in their interest to use banks, state-owned enterprises, institutions, majority-owned companies, states for party financing, private benefit, etc. This was unfortunately the case in the past with "The Commercial Bank", when someone else had responsibility for leading the government of the Republic of Serbia. But, to us, like a lot of things, there's not a lot of room left for maneuvers. In 2011, an agreement was signed with the International Financial Institutions, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IFC as part of the World Bank, the German DEG and Swedfond on their owning the "Comerial Banks", but that they have a path of an option they can activate if we do not enter the privatisation of the " Commercial Bank". This path is not sweet at all, it is not in the interests of the Republic of Serbia or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but it was signed in 2011. So in 2011, someone made a decision on the privatisation of the Commercial Bank. So now you can talk to these people, we find again the best way to get out of this whole situation, so that we can ensure the best possible funding, the functioning of the " Commercial Bank", the stability of the Republic of Serbia and our banking system and the credibility of the Republic of Serbia, as a reliable partner, and that's exactly what we're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56244	Thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56245	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, just to look back on what the Prime Minister said about "The Commercial Bank", and I believe that Mr Vukadinovic's comment was more a fruit of ignorance than some evil intentions to misinformed citizens of Serbia. Exactly, the privatisation of the Commercial Bank took place in 2011. So at that point, the Republic of Serbia becomes and remains co-owner of the bank with 43%, around 43%. So, we're minority co-owner, they're mostly small shareholders and four large funds the Prime Minister talked about, so at this point, it's about us respecting the agreement signed by someone else in 2011 selling a minority stake in that bank, and the privatisation is over in 2011. A serious state must respect the agreements signed by someone else, and if perhaps we disagree with that agreement. That path is one option, I'm free to say, a bad thing for us, because someone else is guaranteed the value, regardless of what the pre-known value is, of what the real value of the market is at that moment. I say again, and we've had this bitter pill and we're going to move on with it, but it's very important that you understand that the process of finding a strategic partner for the Commercial Bank is part of the reform process that we're working on, on the one hand, with the IMF, and on the other hand to increase competitiveness on our banking market. We will be standing before you here by the end of the year with a proposal for a set of laws concerning improving the functioning and growth of the capital market in the Republic of Serbia. With the new Investment Funds laws, the new Alternative Fund Act, we may be going to amend and supplement the Financial Markets Act. We will also go to a large number of tax incentives to improve and promote the financial market, as part of that market is also the banking sector. We, as you know, came out of co-ownership at Jubmes Bank a month and a half ago. We were also a minority shareholder with 22.23%. That's what we're going to do with the Commercial Bank. The partner who will come here, therefore, is talking about credible partners, large banks in the region, who should further invest money in the further development of that bank, and we will, with the money that we earn, if everything goes well, concentrate and invest it both on building better infrastructures and on new highways and on supporting young people through various incentives for employment, we will invest further in education and in health and social protection, in all that is the obligation of the state to invest, to raise the standard of citizens and quality of life in a shorter period of time, and let the bank be guided by those who deal with the banking business. In doing so, I would like to point out that the banks owned by the Republic of Serbia "the Post Office Bank" will remain in our 100% ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56246	Any more questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56247	Mr. Mali, we can look at the stenogram, I was very precise, I said – the sale of the state stake, so the sale of the state stake, I didn't say the majority, but I said my share, so the state stake in "The Commercial Bank". Anyway, you're very eloquent and you've practically shown your financial skills and I can't compete here right now, but it's best that you and the other government official always have the same maneuver. So either the predecessors did it, they messed up something, so you just have to, what you're going to do, realize what they've already done or you have to do for reform, and when something's good, then get all wet and say, here, see, we did it, is that good. You tell that to strangers, you see, that's good, we're carrying out reforms that aren't before, and you tell the local public and citizens -- well, we have to because these predecessors made a commitment and a mistake, whether it's about the economy, whether it's about Kosovo, it's the same model. Anyway, did the predecessors force you to sell or sell both RTB Bor and did the PKB, for example, sell it because of your predecessors? I am merely citing two controversial, in my opinion also problematic sales, where the state is disowning important levers, influences, ultimately incomes, and what someone is going to abuse, as Mrs. Brnabic said, it is always possible. Not to argue without repeating the issue of all issues, which is, of course, Kosovo. I wanted to ask Ivica Dacic, absent Vice President, and now I ask you, about his statement two days ago, when I quote Ivica Dacic, "Serbia cannot recognise Kosovo's independence throughout its territory," which means it cannot recognise Kosovo's independence throughout its territory? What kind of a public official statement is that? Unfortunately, he tracks Alexander Vukic here, who said a few days earlier in Minsk: "It is the desire of many that Serbia recognises Kosovo's independence without getting anything in return." What kind of statements are these, Mrs. Brnabic? It is clear to me that they are likely to go in the direction of demarcation and stories of demarcation, but they devalue our position, on the one hand they are unconstitutional, on the other hand revealing and revealing what is the idea of our negotiators, and on the third hand we will not get that distinction as we can see. So when you say in advance -- here, give us something. Secondly, these statements of yours imply, your president and your first vice president, or the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, that we are ready to recognise Kosovo's independence, provided they give us some compensation. It is unacceptable, Mrs Brnabic, not only constitutionally, but also politically. That's not how you negotiate at the market, let alone in world affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56248	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56249	You know what, some things are black or white, they can't be gray. If you have a signed contract and you have commitments from 2006 to 2011, they are either there or they are not there, so we can't say – we took them in 2011. Don't be rude, really. Can you look at that contract? This contract is completely transparent, there is signed, negotiated as early as 2006, signed as an annex, has a mandatory "road option" that says – if you do not go to the privatisation of "Comerial Bank", you will have to pay us this amount, while guaranteeing the amount of people who have entered into the ownership of "Comerial Banks", in the board of directors, in the management of "Comerial Bank", which at no time thanks to the negotiating government's position then, which I do not know what they mean, so you are managing the bank with us, but your decisions whether the bank is doing well or not are maintained on your profit that we guarantee you today with this signature. We're fighting it today. You can't tell us – well, you each say it's from the past. Well, from the past, Sinisa Mali didn't sign it in 2011, and neither did I, nor Alexander Vukic, signed those who today think they could do better, but then they did everything contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Whether out of ignorance or laziness or irresponsibility, we can talk about it, but the consequences of this are unmistakable and we have to deal with it today, as we today have to deal with the return of the loan at 7.25% interest rates, but, fortunately, thanks to all those reforms launched since 2014, 2015, when Alexander Vukic was Prime Minister, we have now broadcast bonds at the historic lowest interest rate on state records of 1.5% and saved 3.8 billion dinars. You can tell me – well, that's... No, it's a replacement of those old loans that were taken at 7.25% interest, we can borrow 1.5% today, sell our government bonds for 10 years. So it's black or white. This is the 2011 contract, which gives all the rights to international financial institutions for which I x exclusion told them at the meeting that I was a representative of international financial institutions and that I had negotiated with the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would tell him – don't, sir, it's not in your interest, and in my interest because I'm not a "commercial Bank", but a financial institution, not to rob you, but to help you. Unfortunately, there was no such willingness on either side. The contract that was signed then is completely opposite. I stand behind it, the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and we are correcting it now and you can relate it, but if you are responsible, you will hear what I say, you will adopt something and support a policy that is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow and that is trying to solve the problems and correct the wrong drinas that someone else has made, which are coming today at the rate of interest taken in 2006, 2007 at 7.8% interest. As for RTB Bor, absolutely not our strategic decision. Now let me tell you, RTB Bor are colleagues who you practically belong to today, tried four times to privatise from 2006 to 2009, failed. So they didn't think of RTB Bor as something else, but they wanted to privatize it, but they did it so well, they did it so professionally, and then RTB Bor worked so well that four times they couldn't find someone to buy it. So don't talk about what used to be and what happened now. In fact, let's talk, I thank you, in fact, you're doing me a huge favor here to remind ourselves once again, four times they tried to privatise RTB Bor, not once failed, a billion euros in debt. We privatized, found a strategic partner for 63% of RTB Bora for $1,260,000,000. We're proud, 63% RTB worth $1,260,000,000. Now I'm going to tell you another piece of information. Production in RTB Bor in May 2019, compared to May 2018, which was already excellent because this privatisation, production of cathode copper plus 40.7%. So, production of cathode copper increases by practically 41%. Production of tar copper from its own concentrate increases from 41.5% compared to 2018. So, absolutely proud, absolutely successful and if we were like the ones you're sitting with today, it would be the fifth time privatisation has failed, and there would probably be two billion euros in losses by now. As for KIM, you had opportunities and I thank you, you were one of the few responsible at least to sit here for two days when the President of the Republic was here answering questions, unlike others who are playing politics, so they're playing so they're calling on the president to come to report, and when he comes, they don't come. You heard what he had to say then. If you or your policy want to talk about unreal things, the status quo and the frozen conflict, so that none of this stability can be maintained or anything we have achieved in the last five years to risk, to risk the lives of Serbs on KIM, to run an irresponsible policy because of pulsism, no, you will absolutely not see it from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or from that joint team that we have with the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56250	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56251	Thank you. Please draw attention after the Prime Minister, because last time she had a need, there was no reference to this comment. They have all the time possible and what is a small privilege of MPs is that his will be the last, even in those minutes or two. So, Mrs. Brnabic, we can't take what suits you from the past and then call on it, and then underline continuity and discontinuity where we fit. Of course the predecessors were wrong. We wouldn't be ex-boyfriends if they were doing well, and I don't agree with them at all. As you've noticed, I haven't criticised the privatisation, say, of the Ironworks. It's a good project. As far as Bora is concerned, yes, it isn't. He's profitable. One day, if I ever wonder, I probably won't do much in Serbian politics, we'll get Bor back and we'll do everything we can to get Bor back to the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Serbian state. There are other things, of course. Why are you selling Lasta? Why are tenders being set up for the sale of Lasta? And it doesn't matter now. Let's get back to the more important question KIM. So you say you refer to facts. A lot of things have been done wrong. That's true, but it's a fact that Kosovo SWAT couldn't go north to this government. When he says that deal about the Commercial Bank was bad, I believe your word, and I believe it is, that they did it wrong, but believe me, the Brussels Agreement is even worse if it's even possible. So, dilettaneally negotiated, unwarrantedly signed, and it's coming back to us. So, the Brussels Agreement is something that is most embarrassingly signed by the president of the Serbian state, I would say in a recent and older history and all the bad things that are happening now, including the blockade, including the Kosovo army, you cannot attach, I do not know the question that the then foreign minister has raised to the international court, but actually the consequences of applying, or the signing and application of the Brussels Agreement, which actually established the continuity of the Serbian state throughout the territory. As for the status quo... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56252	Thank you. That was your time to comment. Next MP, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it wasn't President Vukic who signed the Brussels Agreement, it was Mr Dacic, as I recall. That's one thing. Secondly, the prime minister's answer to the government's question in 2011. The government thought it would ensure that Gjorge Vukadinovic won the lottery, but did not buy the lucky one. He is double light to me – twice happy. He wasn't buying a ticket, and he was getting millions from Tadic on the lottery. Hence, and his interpretation of Kosovo's independence, which took place in 2008. He probably slept through it with the lottery under his head. So, first I'd like to welcome your statement. I'm asking the Minister of Health to say what he thinks about specializations, about these new doctors young. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture how does he feel about replacing cattle for cattle? Madam Prime Minister, I would like first to welcome the statement on the continuance of the work on black and with regard to the interpretation of the European Commission's report. You've certainly heard of United Media and United Group, SBB, School and Gilas. So, you know that our domestic electronic media registers in REM and pays broadcasting fees, pays SOKOJ, pays RATEL etc. You certainly know the International Convention, which allows cross-border television to re-emission the original programmes from a country where they are registered without any compensation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or all the signatories of the Council of Europe Convention. You certainly know that. You have certainly heard of the channels that are new "Nova", N1, thirteen sports clubs and about 20 fake pirated cross-border channels, which in Serbia are working on black because cross-border channels must replay the original program without termination, distraction, contribution and advertising, therefore, as shown in Luxembourg. Mr. Gilas and Solak, United Media, have registered 20 fake cross-border channels in Luxembourg that do not broadcast the programme from Luxembourg, but are broadcasting it from Belgrade. You certainly know that Olja Bećkovic is not running a show in Luxembourg, that Ivan Ivanovic is not running a show in Luxembourg, that Yugoslavia Ćosic is not running a show in Luxembourg, but is doing it from Belgrade. These are false pirated over-goerical channels, which do not pay any broadcasting fee, but release these channels on their cable-connected operator, although they are not... They're basically domestic, and they want to say they're cross-border. This directly endangers the work of domestic electronic media. This is related to the report on cable operators and freedom of the media, because in Serbia, the media is so free that they don't even have to register in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56254	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56255	Dear People's MPs, I feel obliged to report to you on the current events and state of health. I see a lot of our people are monitoring what's going on in health care, what's going on in the region, and there's a legitimate question of what we're doing to avoid some of the situations happening in the surrounding countries, and others. Everyone knows that there are all over Europe and around the world transitions and doctors and nurses, that they go from one country to another where there are better conditions, where there are better salaries and that's something that's become quite normal. It's been going on for many years, let me say for a decade and we have a serious responsibility to do everything that we can to avoid some of the situations in which the countries of the region come, which is that because of the lack of medical personnel, because of the lack of doctors, because of the lack of nurses, there is a closure of certain departments, some parts of hospitals. They simply can't find adequate healthcare workers to cover that area. Fortunately, we don't have it, but it's happening in the environment. This happens in both Croatia and Slovenia and other EU countries. What we're doing and what we first had to catch up on is that we found a system in which there was a ban on giving specialization. I have to remind you that an average specialization takes five years and it's a minimum of five years to pass to get a single specialist. You can imagine the situation so they don't give specials for years. You have a condition that you can't go to a specialist if you don't spend two years of working experience in one hospital, and you have such an age structure that specialists, over 50 of them, and 60% of specialists are over 50-55 years old. Now, figure out what it was like to get to the point where we get into a situation where we don't get what's going on, what I've been telling you, these other countries, that they have to close down certain parts of the hospital, because there's no one to do it. We've given 8,000 specials to this day. Eight thousand specializations. We're not until September the first resident we've given specialization will finish specializing. He's coming to us first in September. We've given you 8,000. We've received 14,000 health workers since 2014. So that's the only reason why we're not in this situation today that we have to shut down some part of the hospital or give up something. Please keep that in mind. The first specialists, or specialists, come to us only in September of the month, and those who went all the time, who did not take any time off and who are in it. I have to remind you that we've found it, everyone's already forgotten it, we've found hospitals and health homes where they couldn't close the windows, where they were blowing, where they were putting blankets between two windows. And not to mention that not one bathroom in a health care facility in 90% of health care facilities had no water, didn't work, didn't have a door that could be closed. Of course we've forgotten all that when you're through and when you see it's restored. I must remind you that our patients went to Turkey for a gamma knife. The X knife they couldn't even go to, it was a mental noun. The clinic center in Nis is in 2014, please take a look at the pictures, there was a meadow with one lake. It's a lake meadow in 2014. Today it's the most modern clinical center in the region that can last seven days without electricity, without water, without anything. That's how it's done. A clinic centre in Belgrade since 1986, stopped working in 1987. Nothing's ever been done again, and money and money have been spent. Now look, now that you're through, there's still a floor and a half left and a roof to put on. Another floor and a half to be under the roof a new part of the clinic center, and you can see that the old one is being renovated. Everything that's wrong is being stripped, going into complete recovery. We'll have a new 86,000 squares, over 1,000 bearings of intensive care, 30 operating halls, a new Emergency Center. All the things that were dreamt of and what was a mental noun. It's the New Now Clinical Center, the Kragujevac Clinical Center. How many hospitals have been completed? They burned down Dragisha Misovica hospital, and today Dragisha Misovica is the most modern hospital in Belgrade. Look at the equipment it has, what it looks like today, "Dragisha Misovica", and imagine a system that couldn't work. So you're on duty, when Belgrade has a million more residents than it's planned for, what the hospitals are for, and you set the hospital on fire, and then one hospital fell out of your watch system. What do you think it was like to take care of these patients, the most difficult patients, the urgent patients coming, not just from Belgrade, from the environment, but the most complicated ones from all over Serbia? How'd it go with that? For the first time in history, the oldest hospital in Zemun has a magnetic resonance. How many angio-salas are open? For the first time, Serbia has accelerators, one accelerator per 100,000 inhabitants. I'll remind you that the patients were dying waiting for radiation. Is there a greater sin than that, people? Is there a greater sin than that, and plus we had our people dying waiting, but they were coming from someone else's insurance to get them beamed up. And that's all right now. Now those people who've done all this, they've got a good idea and they're explaining that they'd be much better off. That was all in their time. The ambulance drove a million miles. So they go into intervention and stay, they can't get to the patient. To date, we bought and gave over 100 new, most equipped ambulances, and they didn't invest, but they took money on it. Remember the "Jucid" affair. Millions of euros. There's a tender, the company gets, they get payments, the company shuts down, there's no money, there's no car, there's no company, there's no one responsible for all of it. And the ambulance, it's a mobile hospital that depending on the time it comes depends on whether it saves a life or not. Do you remember how many affairs there were with that ambulance and all that? Have you heard lately that they've been late somewhere, that they haven't come anywhere, that there's been a problem? Do you think it fell from the sky? Do you think that comes just like that? All of this, our doctors, from here, hold you responsible, I say, that you don't stop, that people don't die, health care in Montenegro, cardiosurgery, neurosurgery, vascular surgery, you wouldn't have anyone in Podgorica to operate on a more complicated open heart operation so they don't come, that I didn't let the doctors from Serbia come down to operate on the citizens of Montenegro, to survive, not to die. The same situation with Macedonia, not to speak Republika Srpska and Bosnia. People, these are facts, here you go, check it out, tell me if one of these facts doesn't stand? Did you raise your salary to nurses and doctors? Has it been said for decades that the state should hire our best doctors, our best nurses? Why don't you do it? It became a practice with us. Every six months, they hire the best. First they were doctors, now we're hiring nurses. Yesterday, 158. In the next few weeks 400 of them will get a job. Not that they're going to get a job, but they're going to work in normal conditions, not to get sneezed, not to blow them, where they can close the window, have new toilets, and where they have the most modern medical equipment, that they can perfect themselves, that the state pays for their specialization, that the state pays for their doctoral studies. Calculate how much that is. After each of them tens and tens of thousands of euros, we invest in them. Whether they're able to work in the afternoon, we're doing everything we can to keep them in their own country. They go, they go, but they come back when they see what that work looks like, how much it costs, how much it costs, and what it's like to live there, what it's like to live here, and how much it costs to live there, how much it costs here. Of course, everyone's eager to try, to see, to leave. We're working on getting our experts who have gone before, who are famous, to admit, to bring them back and back to you. These are the facts we're talking about. Are we satisfied? We think he can do even better. Are we the best in the region? We did. Are we satisfied with that? No, I don't. We think it's got to be even better. Just remember how many obstructions there were when we introduced the e-recept. So they're about to go out on the street. Today, here's how long it's been, let's say it doesn't work e-recept for two days, I think we'd have the most terrible rebellion. Just two days to say that something happened to the system, with software, doesn't do an e-recept for two days, it would be a serious panic. Therefore, I ask you to understand that health care is an extremely living organism that must be perfected and worked every day. Not to tell you how much more money we spend on drugs and treating rare diseases right now. They haven't treated any. They didn't have an item in the budget to treat rare diseases. The police kept their parents away from those kids when they came to some rally so the cameras wouldn't see them protesting. Have you forgotten that yet? A therapy for a child of spinal muscle atrophy on an annual basis, for one child, costs 400,000 euros and must be for the rest of his life. For a single child. Based on the Budget Fund, the State Budget Fund for Foreign Treatment. Hundreds of children went to be treated. Thank God, it's healed, it's back in Serbia. The Budget Fund is followed by children who can't be diagnosed here, go through the Budget Fund to get diagnosed and then start treating. Do we still have those we have to help? Yes, but we can only help them if this country is stronger. If it is financially better standing, then we will be able to give even more, as promised both by the Prime Minister and the President that we will give, that we will help everything we can. It's only for real. Just pick up how much this has cost to do, to buy, to build, and to give so much work, so much specialization, and everything. Health care, you're the only one with us who doesn't pay for anything. We're the only ones who don't pay for it. With basic insurance, with the health book you go with the most expensive therapy there is, you go to the gamma knife, you go to the X knife, you go to the state-of-the-art accelerators, the scanners, the magnetic resonances, the chemo, everything that's expensive. You don't pay any money. See if there's any more in any country. We have the brains of great experts watching movies, and then they say, "What's not like this?" They talk, like in America. In America, every third citizen doesn't have insurance, he doesn't have enough insurance. You know what it looks like when he comes to the hospital. He dies, and they say: Do you have insurance or do you not have insurance? You don't have insurance, you can't get past the gate. We find our citizens in America, cut their fingers, go to the hospital, good day, good day, three stitches, $3,700 is the bill. Three thousand and seven hundred dollars. God forbid when they get sick there, they call, they pray, whether from America, whether from England urgently to move, to return to Belgrade, because they could sell everything there, they wouldn't have enough to pay for that treatment. We have all this free, dear citizens and dear MPs, and imagine how much it costs. I'm just asking for a little understanding. It's clear to all of us that it can't be overnight, that there's a serious system, 118,000 employees, to provide in every hospital, in every home of health, in every ambulatory, there's everything. When you heard of a shortage, what was the most regular thing you heard? You went to the hospital, so they tell you – go buy a patch, go buy a bandage, go buy a syringe, go buy this medicine, go buy that medicine. We forget all about it very quickly. What do you think it's like to provide every medicine today? Do you know how much we market for these global companies and others? Statistical error. Imagine what it's like to provide only vaccines to get us past all those big states and serious players? Who's the first person to get hurt in the process of production? Of course, this is the smallest. They say: ye shall be without it; we go for these great lands; they are ours; they receive it. Here if you're late for the vaccine one day, it's an alarming condition. When we say that people don't want to be vaccinated, they have to, we get in trouble, and they say, "That's some lobby, they're looking for, that's some commission." We forgot the vaccines that came here through Valjev, Šapca, Loznica, over four mediators came vaccines into Serbia and nothing. Over four mediators from Serbia, and I don't know how many of them were from there. The people should be ashamed, the greatest sin, to cover themselves with ears and to keep quiet. If they can support this, that's fine, and if not, don't bother. We take care of the citizens, and we want to make sure they have as good and safe health care as possible. That's all people care about, and we have to make it happen, and that's what we promised them. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56256	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56257	I only want one short thing, because it seems important to me, and it seems to me that misinformation has been placed to read in various media tomorrow. We heard today we're setting up a tender for Lasta. I won't go any further. I'd have, a respected MP, a lot more to answer, but it wouldn't be right, because we can't have that kind of controversy today. I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that this is a misinformation, to be politically correct and to say that the misinformation, that it's just placed, is probably not on purpose. Therefore, neither the tender for Lasta was announced, nor was an assessment of the value, final, "Laste, neither is the tender at any stage close to publication at this time. So, setting up a tender for "Lasta" is a misinformation that has been placed, I guess, to let the citizens say tomorrow that we're setting up here, and it's going to be for my brother or brother the president or brother the finance minister. I see they're brothers. Since you can't find anything for us, then let's go get the family. So don't worry about anything. The tender for "Lasta" is not even published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56258	Risticevic, would you like to ask a further question?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56259	Thank you. So, Madam Prime Minister, I continue my question – do you know that these fake cross-border channels include "New", N1, thirteen "Sport clubs" etc. are not registered in Serbia and are they linked to the SBB? The same SBB with domestic channels that pay all fees does not pay for 80% of the programme, which it uses, nothing, and these fake cross-border channels also pays a few euros per user in Serbia's SBB has 900,000, which means that it pumps them to tens of millions each month, as well as to the finance minister, the euro. So, do you know, too, that these fake Gilas, the Schools, the United Media, cross-border channels, unauthorizedly end the advertising program, and that through broadcasting, illegal advertising, they take revenue from the domestic media? It moves at an annual level of over 20m euros. So, by pumping a subscription through SBB and charging ads, inserting ads, SBBs and tied cross-border fake channels, pirate channels thus destroy domestic media that remain unaccounted for. You know that Telecom gives up to 150 million profits and has 2.5 times the market of SBB. Since 2015, the SBB, it is also related to the finance minister, has no profit whatsoever. So he pumps it over these fake cross-border channels. Now I've answered where Gilas's millions are, where he got those millions, and I've also answered where the Falcons are, where's your state Falcon. You're driving a car wreck, and Mr. Cholak is driving the latest Falcona model from one golf course to another golf course. So with money from citizens and taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, he bought himself a "Falcon" instead of belonging to the state of Serbia and being driven by current and future officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56260	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56261	You've entered the honourable Parliament of the people into dangerous territories. Now you're going to be one of the worst opponents of media freedom because it's taboo topic. Unfortunately, we can't talk about it, because it's SBB. I'll tell you a lot of things, you're absolutely right, and citizens need to know that, but when I talked about it last week, they attacked me for attacking the independence of the media abroad. I only talked about the data, the facts, the market, the laws and the fees to be paid in the Republic of Serbia's budget for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, I haven't talked about any media content or about who I'm going to, who I'm going against, whether they're objective, whether they're unobstructive, whether they're free, or trapped and who they're trapped with. So, I didn't talk about anything, but I attacked them. You know, someone has to talk about it. If this is a democratic state and the state of institutions and states in which we fight for the rule of law, then we must have the courage to talk about these things even though they will attack me and you, that we are opponents of freedom of the media, unfortunately. I'll tell you, according to the data I have, the SBB in a country where there is complete censorship and monopoly, SBB holds 51% of the market, distribution of media content in Serbia, 51%. Say, where I live, in my apartment, I can't have Telecom, I can only have SBB. So I don't have a choice. Many so, throughout Serbia, thanks to SBB entering the market, as the grey economy was doing at the time, as it has been supported by the then government of the Republic of Serbia and the political elite, and all of this has been legalised overnight without a single dinar. Unfortunately, there's nothing we can do here today. This SBB today holds 51% of the media content distribution. "Telecom Serbia," I think it holds about 36%, "Serb Post", if I'm not wrong about 4%. Telecom Serbia pays three times as much as the SBB and we can't verify it, or RATEL can't verify it, why the SBB pays that way, because they treat it like a business secret. If you touch that, you'll be the biggest opponent of media freedom. You'll be the one suffocating free independent media, those who introduce censorship, you'll see it tonight, if not tomorrow morning, but I'm sure you'll see tonight. Since what you're talking about is quite complex and citizens don't understand most of the time, I'm going to give you an example that will be quite easy for citizens to understand. So, on a daily basis, I look at SBB channels, by numbering the first channel, the second channel, about how the biggest problem of our European integration is the EU accession, but above all, our society is a lack of respect for the rule of law. Every day I hear about respecting the rule of law from people who, in the most harshest way possible, violate the Law on Electronic Communications and don't care. They don't care. They don't explain to anyone why, or how, they don't give a damn about the misdemeanor reports of independent regulatory bodies. Therefore, the Law on Electronic Communications, Article 100 says – the operator is obliged, in this case SBB, to respect the logical numbering of channels that determine the regulator, in this case REM, taking into account the nature of the media service and the coverage zone for which the media service authorisation has been issued. The controller shall monitor and ensure compliance with the obligations of the operator prescribed by the provisions of this Article, in cooperation with the regulatory body responsible for the field of electronic communications. So the regulator determines the numbering, Article 100 very clearly in the Electronic Communications Act. Every day we feel sorry for the rule of law of people who absolutely don't respect that regulation. So they don't respect the numbering. So the regulator says – the first channel must be in one country public service, national RTS television. An operator holding 51% of the media content distribution market in the Republic of Serbia says - I don't care, it's going to be the third channel, my first one is going to be "N1", so I'm going to be "New S", so I'm going to be RTS and REM can only give a misrepresentation which they don't particularly care about. But we never hear that. We never hear that in a European Commission report. You've never heard of the problem of law-abiding, the rule of law, the independent regulatory bodies, the institution, because it's a taboo topic. We can't talk about it because if we talk about it, we're suffocating freedom of the media and so on. independent media, and that's the problem I want to talk about because if we're talking about the rule of law, gentlemen, get on with it, as we're moving on from ourselves. Just like every single person in this society needs to get away from himself, go away from yourself. Tell us two things. First, how is it possible that Telecom, which has a much smaller percentage of the market, pays three times the remuneration to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and how is it possible that contrary to Article 100 of the electronic communications law, an operator holding 51% of the distribution of media content does not respect the Law on Electronic Communications and an independent regulatory body? So we're going to keep talking about this because we want to talk about the rule of law, we want the same conditions for everyone, we want to fight the gray economy, illegal and unfair competition on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56262	Do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56263	The comment is next. It shows – re-emission from Article 74, point 1 of Article 74. The law on electronic media does not exist if the original programme has been amended. Not only has it been changed, but it is being broadcast from Serbia and thus by working on black, pirate channels are destroying domestic regular television channels. On the issue of the rule of law, I wouldn't do much, but we want my comment to the European Commission, where they resent us for the lack of dialogue. Just so you know, to tell them, I'm willing to deliver this and in writing to you. It says - by June 3rd, despite the boycott, the government appeared 10,084 times or 60 per MP in this House. The opposition reported 8.570 times a third, which is 102. So, almost twice as much. The time spent as spoken in a direct transfer was 551 hours for two-thirds of parliament, the opposition 575 hours for one-third of parliament. Which means power 3.3 hours, opposition 7.1 hours. The relationship between the Dvori and SNS, Dveri 1419 reports to seven MPs or 202 times, SNS 7.212 times to 105 MPs, 68, three times less reported. Time, Dvori 70 hours, 10 hours per messenger, SNS 366 hours or 3.4 hours per messenger. I think they think democracy is importing imperial products, and we think it's being made from within, and so I wrote to the European Commission and sent you a copy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56264	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56265	Dear Parliament Speakers, respected government representatives, MPs, the Albanian minority in Serbia, are neither guilty nor obliged to stay at the start of all minorities in Serbia as regards minority rights. We're in the fog right now, and there's a lot of stuff going on, and it's writing and planning for us, and we don't know anything. We and Serbs and others living in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are waiting for open ears what will happen in our future. The Albanian minority since 1990, since having MPs in this high house, has been waiting almost with the same demands as 29 years ago. Our diplomas, acquired at universities in Kosovo, are not yet recognised. For more than 20 years, we've been waiting for books for elementary schools that we haven't completed yet. Some rights we had during Tito and Milosevic, we don't have them now. The General Court and the General Prosecutor's Office were suspended in Presevo. In Bujanovac, the primary prosecutor's office remained the primary prosecutor's unit from Vranj. The number of employees in these judicial bodies does not correspond to the population structure of these three municipalities. In Bujanovac, the court's president should be among the Albanian national minorities. We're at a police station in Bujanovac at a great minus. Empty places don't fill up when someone retires by cops and other employees. The Bujanovac Fire Department does not have any Albanians. The Kastastar service in Presevo has only one Albanian, and the cadastrian service in Bujanovac, of nine workers, is neither Albanian. In the middle level of government in the Pcinjska and Jablanic district, not to mention, of the 16 types of inspections, there is only one Albanian. We don't have any in other state institutions at the middle level of government. Four years ago, a Republic Educational Inspector retired, based in Vranj, and today the place was not filled. The Vranje hospital of 600 workers, there are no Albanians, and in the Niška region we have nothing, not to enter.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56266	Ambassador, you've exceeded your time, but you'll proceed after the minister's reply, if that's okay with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56268	Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56269	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister and Prime Minister and Minister, what I know for sure is that national minorities are the most important issue, which is education. My witness, of course, is Prime Minister of the government, when we hold regular meetings with now 27 national councils, which we have in Serbia, is a record. Europe absolutely doesn't know that. Standards that Serbia does not adopt, but which it applies, also Europe does not know. For three years, I will be, almost, a minister in two months, trying to beg the same standards both in Brussels and in the region. I also ask Albanian ministers, Montenegrin ministers, North America ministers and all others to give minimum rights to Serb minorities in the environment. But for the sake of truth and the public, Mr. MP knows well that we have made an effort and that one two years of obstruction was not until the Ministry of Education. So all the other minorities that have capacities a little bit larger, it's just that if you have 20, 30,000 community members or 300,000, you don't have the same capacity to exercise the right to European standards, which is the right to textbooks. So, just the new elections for the national councils of the national minorities have led to the fact that people, Ragmi and others who are now leading have come to me, on my initiative and said we do not have the capacity, and before that is ignored. Why does it matter? Because the Serbian majority cannot make a textbook on the Albanian minority by introducing Albanian language and literature and other textbooks. So, we found a modusa. On my initiative last November, I was due to meet with Minister Nikola, she was replaced in December, not my fault, of course, the change in Albania's power, their legitimate right. Her assistant, and current Minister Besa Shahini and I, have seen each other several times and we met on a joint initiative in Bujanovac, after recently in Belgrade and the story has been unblocked. At no time did the Serbian side make no problem about it, nor did it go public that there was a problem on the other hand. I think we will settle this very quickly by liberalising the whole process and by getting promises that this reciprocity will also apply to Serbs in Skadra and the environment, because Albania is now working on a new minority law and is looking to rewrite Serbia's model, which is very commendable. It is not only a question of whether children in Bujanovac in Presevo and part of Medvedje, there is a very small minority, I teach every ambassador that there is no Presevo Valley and I ask the MPs to establish that this is a political term in the sound of a great Albania, that is six stars on the so-called. Cards. I, as a geographer, can say that there is a Presevo cauldron and that it is a double cauldron with Kumanov, and you can't use the expression of some valley, because that's something else to say. What Serbian children have since I run the Ministry of Education, will also have Albanian, Turkish, Egyptian and Askalia and all others, believe me on the word and that is the living truth. So I can't give you an agreement until the Employment Prohibition Act is lifted, not on that inspector, but on all the inspectors we're missing, the Prime Minister knows that. We have local self-government where there are five, six inspectors missing at the bar. That job is decentralisation. He'd be very happy if as soon as he's unblocked to step up the inspection first, to solve all the current problems we have, and you know that I regularly go down the region, as well as all the other parts of Serbia. What is very important, and that is that I have given one attention to the people of the OSCE, from the European Community. Sam Bujanovac has the Faculty of New Sad University, which is the Faculty of Economics from Subotica. Nice to meet you. The enrollment went phenomenal. Two, three years I've been in my business there seriously, and that's why it's good. You know what's interesting? That's where 26 to 27% of the Roma live. In all the agendas we have according to the inclusion of the Roma, there was only one roman there in ten years. I'm asking you, as a responsible national minority and community, why don't you take care of the minorities living in your environment? It's not the Albanians who are at risk, it's the Roma.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56270	I thank the minister. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56271	Thank you. All this means that Serbia's laws and constitution write everything about minorities and minority rights, it's okay, but in practice it's a very bad situation especially for the Albanian minority, because the Albanian minority is waiting to integrate into state authorities and institutions, but it won't. We've been in this house 29 years since the time of pluralism and we've always had MPs, one at a time and two at a time, but we've always been in opposition. This means a lot. These municipalities remained completely economically underdeveloped. President Vukic came to Bujanovac and did not meet with Albanians from the leadership of local authorities, and neither did I as an MP. Why should he meet, why should he promise us? I am disappointed that the president did not meet in Bujanovac with representatives of the municipality and an Albanian national minority MP. I can tell you that even so far, the government has been unable to invest in these two municipalities and reduce the number of unemployed, which is about 60%. But what's there is, we have to look ahead. We, as an Albanian minority, have been punished by the government in recent years, because we still count as 5800 Albanians in Serbia as far as we are on the 2011 list, and therefore we get funding for the National Council in the lower category, because the International Commission's assessment of 2015 has not been taken. Now, for example, on a payment ramp near Presevo, which has been opened for the past few months, out of 17 workers are only five Albanians, and in the entrance and exit of Bujanovac none has been admitted so far. All I said was these questions for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56272	I thank the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56273	Thank you. First, I will repeat what I keep saying when we talk about this issue, which is that Serbia is an absolute European champion and we are proud of the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. I must say, and you may understand me, that it is extremely frustrating when, for example, you have some neighbouring countries to block the opening of Serbia's chapter because of lack of respect, let's say their national minorities, while the same countries in their legislation do not even recognise national minorities. There Serbs cannot be a national minority, but they are blocking us because of disrespect enough of their national minority. It is a kind of nebulosis for me that, I think well which we will still talk about, but I want to tell you that if you look at the status of other ethnic groups, communities, national minorities in those countries that recognize from them as national minorities, in the region or in Europe, you will agree with me, that to the greatest extent possible sometimes, if you ask me personally, and through every normal measure, the rights and freedoms of national minorities are protected. Why do I say sometimes too much, because you here have a problem that sometimes national minorities or ethnic groups and communities can't integrate into society, they can't get a job because they don't even know the Serbian language. That's a huge problem. This is also one of the problems why we cannot employ more members of the Albanian national minority. Because you, across Serbia from the south to the north, have both preschool and primary education, and secondary education and higher education, fully in the language of the national minority. You have areas in Serbia where people do not understand Serbian. They don't speak them. We've gone so far in respect of the law, but then we have this problem that people can't get a job in republican organs because they don't speak the language of this country. Now I will only give you in the last year, what we have done, to further strengthen the rights and freedoms of national minorities. So, you know, you have adopted here in the National Minority Councils Law Assembly which has further strengthened and further clarified the status of national councils of national minorities, and in particular the financing of national councils. There's a law on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities, so I pulled out some of the things that were introduced by that law, which the national minorities themselves asked for, that don't exist anywhere else, and you correct me if I'm wrong, so I think in Europe. The right to enter data on the national membership of national minorities in public documents, with the fact that during the lifetime if you feel at any time as a member of another national minority, and you know that this is happening in Serbia, for example, we have the National Council of the Egyptian National Minority, Askalia, Roma, and in different periods of the lifetime they feel like members of another national minority. This changes public administration from their own sense of belonging. This is quite a flexibility and a step of public administration compared to how an individual in the Republic of Serbia feels. The established basis for prescribing affirmative measures for national minorities through the introduction of provisions in specific laws governing the working legal status of public sector employees, which will allow for favouring national minorities in employment, i.e. firing under the same conditions, to achieve an adequate structure of public sector employees at all levels of territorial organisation. But you must know that you understand Serbian. The Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which provides that in populated places in local self-governments where the percentage of members of the national minority reach 15% of the name of the public authorities, the name of the units of local self-government, populated places, squares and streets and other toponyms is written in both language and national minorities, and in the event that the language of those national minorities is not officially used in the territory of local self-government. We have local self-government where we have 15 official languages. So far the most than anywhere else in Europe. The law on books of origin, where it is prescribed to enter data on national membership in the birth certificate on the explicit request of national councils of national minorities. The Law on Local Self-Government ensures that all units of local self-government that have this obligation educate the Council on International Relations and a series of labour-based laws that provide for affirmative measures for the employment of members of national minorities. Again, if people want to work in the republican authorities that exist in local self-government must know, they understand the Serbian language. I pray once again, but we especially in Presevo, Bujanovac, do it through the co-ordination body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, learning both Serbian and Albanian to have a much better integration. Please make a contribution to that. It seems to me, you may not have thought so, but it seems to me that you have passed a little on to President Vukic that he has not met with Albanians or representatives of the National Council of the Albanian National Minority and not to you in Bujanovac. Please, I really must remind you, not only of you, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what a step President Aleksandar Vukic made for relations between Albanians and Serbs and for long-term reconciliation, a better understanding between these two peoples. So, as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, for the first time in 68 years, he called for the official visit of the prime minister of the Republic of Albania, Mr. Edi Rama. That was totally precedent. Again, I am proud of it, I think that these are things that open a different perspective for both Serbia and the region. But if someone has done much for our relations, for relations between Albanians and Serbs, for reconciliation, for a better understanding, for regional stability, then it is certainly President Aleksandar Vukic. And, finally, I talked about it with Mr. Camber, who is a much more experienced politician than me, when he was a 2011 census, the National Council of the Albanian Minority chose to boycott the list. It was a political decision. For political decisions, there are political consequences. So, boycotting the list for which some 5,000 and some members of the Albanian national minority are listed, but these are official data today, and it is so everywhere in Europe and everywhere in the world by the rule of law, by the institutions, you can now say, but you have some unofficial estimates of how many of us there are, but if we open that Pandora's box, and I know there were stories about it in the previous government, but my position was clear, if we open that Pandora's box there's no reason for any other individual or national minority council to come and say, I wasn't in Serbia at the time, so just sign me or count me like this. So, then the list isn't worth anything. I think it was an irresponsible decision by your political leaders in 2011 to boycott the list. Why boycott the list? Why? So, if it wasn't a boycotted list, today the National Council would have much more financials at its disposal, today would have a much bigger impact, but it's a boycotted list and it's a fact, and I'm coming up soon with the next list, a new list, I ask you to be politically mature, that this list is not boycotted, that we all work together, respecting the institutions of the Republic of Serbia including that list itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56274	Thank you. You have a comment, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56275	Madam Prime Minister, we have a lot of people who know very well Serbian language and we can find these personnel, but there should be good will in you, here in a week we may find 100 young people who know very well Serbian, but you should be willing to integrate us and we are about 1% in Serbia, and in the state authorities of the institution, for example, how many 50 or 100 thousand, give us 1% of what comes next, and we will find people who know very well the Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56276	I thank you, MP. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56277	Thank you, Chairman. A respected prime minister, respected ministers and fellow MPs and citizens, is due next year for regular parliamentary and municipal elections in nearly all municipalities around Serbia, including all Belgrade municipal municipalities. Election conditions, the electoral legislation of media freedom, the electoral list and how the electoral process is conducted, are an ongoing topic in the public and are also the subject of citizens' protests held in the previous months. The announced and possible boycott of the opposition's election unless there is a change in electoral conditions, a state of media freedom, at least six to nine months before the elections are held. The elections held with a boycott of the works of the political scene certainly call into question the legitimacy of the authorities elected in such elections, the overall capacity of the state, internal political stability and foreign political position of the state and those represented in foreign political contacts as legitimately elected representatives of the government. The modern Serbian party believes that it is the last time to open a dialogue on media freedoms and electoral conditions, and otherwise, we can face a political crisis that can go in an incomprehensible direction, because the electoral process and all other democratic procedures are the only natural way to channel political disagreements. If these democratic processes are not established, then the antagonisms in society are escalating. We are interested first in whether the representatives of the government think that our electoral process is overall satisfactory, that our electoral legislation is good and that we do not need to repair it, that our media freedoms are adequate and that they allow equal representation of all political actors. The European Commission's latest report on Serbia's progress in European integration, which the Modern Serbian Party respects as a relevant document and as a relevant picture of our society's state of affairs, notes, "that Serbia has not taken sufficient advantage of the period between elections, in order to address permanent shortcomings, inadequate transparency in party financing and campaigns, an unclear difference between party and state activities and uneven media reporting." It also states that the OSCE recommendations are absolutely not respected and that the overall reform of electoral legislation still needs to be addressed. If the representatives of the government or government, on the other hand, think that nothing needs to be fixed in all of this, then unfortunately, I am drawing attention to a serious political crisis that can really go in an inexplicable direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56278	Thank you. Here, answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56279	First of all, again as someone who has recently entered politics, from the point of view of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if I am not mistaken, it seems to me that the electoral conditions have not changed for decades. I think that was the election conditions when the SNS won the elections, but I don't remember then complaining about these electoral conditions or media freedoms, at a time when the media reported by the Anti-Corruption Council were fully placed under political control. So it seems to me that, and especially today at a time of such digitisation of social media and everything else, it is used as a political excuse, but even if it isn't, I'll agree with you on a few important things. I also want to thank you for your courage and responsibility to participate in the work of the Assembly, because I think that today when you are an opposition, it is not easy, because attacks on you are sometimes even stronger, but attacks on us and thank you for this responsibility and for this political dialogue. For example, when I was Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, which was certainly very well taken over by Minister Ruzic, much of my time I was dealing with the electoral list. The polling list was arranged in 2012, which is a unique polling list, but you know, we were the first to decide to transfer the books and books on citizens into electronic form for transparency, full transparency and efficiency. And thanks to this, we today have an automatic update of the voter list and soon we will have a full, transparent insight into the voter list and how this voter list is updated. It's a big thing for election conditions, a huge thing for election conditions. I haven't seen anyone do anything in decades before that to transfer, for example, something that's completely logical, parent books in electronic form, citizenship in electronic form, to arrange for that system to be fully transparent and updated automatically, which means that when one is entered, when it's entered into the death certificate, it's automatically deleted from the electoral list. We have done so, in the best possible faith, that we have the rule of law and strong institutions, a transparent system in the Republic of Serbia. I think that's enough signal, an indicator of what kind of society we want and how much we're not afraid of choices and fair transparent conditions in elections. As for media freedoms, again, with all the problems we have, which certainly do not come from 2014, neither 2015, 2016, or 2017, but much earlier, in 2003, when one MP, who was at that time the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, called the media at press conferences marginal phenomena, which could never happen today. We have today created a working group for the creation of a media strategy in which you have nine representatives of media and news associations and nine representatives of the state. In 2011, you had a working group for a media strategy that, if I'm not mistaken, eight representatives of the state and gave generously one representative to represent all media and news associations. I think today's dialogue is much, much better, much more inclusive and that we are doing a much better job in this regard. After all, the media strategy should create different conditions for a media scene that will be present at the time when elections are called. As for election conditions, as far as dialogue between the ruling majority, the opposition and everything else is concerned, well, this is a place for dialogue. This is a place for dialogue, but where are those looking for dialogue? Where are they today? Where have they been these last weeks? Where are the last months of people looking for dialogue? When the president of the assembly called for dialogue, did they respond? No, I don't. It was just a political call, a political game where they say -- well, we want a dialogue, invite us to a dialogue, don't give us room for dialogue, although the MP has just told us how much space someone has and the time relative to the trust he gets from the citizens. I think it's an absolute democratic norm and more than that, but they didn't respond to that dialogue. Well, I don't know where they'll be talking about election conditions then. Again, I wouldn't deal with things that are far above the government that I represent, so it's in this House, on you as MPs. I saw the president of the assembly call for dialogue. If someone doesn't respond to the dialogue, I don't know where the dialogue is expected? They tried the tent, but apparently no one wanted in a modern democratic society like Serbia today to talk in the tent. I would tell you one more thing, if we're talking about recommendations that are an expert team I don't know whether the Alliance for Serbia or "1 out of 5 million", but that's the same thing, if we're talking about election recommendations that these experts have made, and it practically comes down to the fact that elections are fair if Alexander Vucic is not taking part in them, but it's not fair if Aleksandar Vucic participates in them and runs the SNS, then I don't think it's serious to talk about it. That's never happened. No one has ever said – e, Boris Tadic must not participate in the elections, there is no such thing as any democratic country, so don't say - there are no conditions, so we will not go out, or we will boycott the elections, but then say honestly, responsibly and courageously to the citizens of Serbia – we cannot beat the list led by Aleksandar Vukic and we won't even go out. That's fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56280	Thank you. It's an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56281	Thank you for your response, but I don't think I got it after all. So I wouldn't be running a dialogue here with you about where the other opposition organizations are and if they're justified where they are, there's no need for you to lead that controversy, they have their reasons and they believe they're justified. I am asking for concrete electoral shortcomings in the electoral process, in the electoral legislation and the fact that these shortcomings are also identified by the European Commission in its latest report. It is true that all the last elections have been conducted, more or less, by the laws and procedures that the former government has passed, but it is also true that the OSCE and the European Commission in their consecutive annual reports and analyses of all previous election processes have seen a deterioration in the state of democracy in Serbia, a deterioration in the implementation of democratic procedures, and the electoral procedures and state bodies that participate in the election procedures are certainly the basis of all other democratic processes. So we have a draft of amendments and additions to the Law on Political Parties, but that's too little. I expected to hear concrete legislative proposals to be presented to the MPs in the coming months, because I am telling you, if part of the opposition or the entire opposition are boycotted by the elections, you will have choices to come out of as an illegally elected authority, which will lead the country into a political crisis. I can list you with concrete irregularities, phantom voters who receive calls to addresses where no one has ever seen them live, cars without license plates driving around polling stations, members of election committees who walk the electoral lists and keep their parallel records, donations of 6700 people who in a few days in a synchronised campaign payment campaign payment of 40,000 dinars to the ruling party, these are indicators of money laundering when you have a bunch of small transactions that are carried out in a few days. So all these illegalities have never been responded by the ruling authorities. At the end of the line, you can deny the need to repair the electoral process and electoral legislation, but I am telling you, the need exists, because part of this country's political system is announcing a boycott. If we have such elections, we will not have a legitimately elected political authority and this endangers the stability of the state in both the internal political plan and the foreign policy plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56282	The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56283	First, as far as legislation is concerned, again, I am meeting with my team to file a report and answer questions about a home that is far above us, the highest legislative body. If we talk about legislation, talk here to change the electoral legislation. The government may be a promoter, but the government certainly doesn't have to be a proposing. So, gentlemen, sit down and talk. I mean, we're just the government, we work for you, we answer to you. Of course, you can't blame the government for the legislation, but again, the election laws haven't changed in years, so help me exactly how many... They were like that, at the time nobody complained about them, they were completely democratic, they were totally fair while someone else was in power, but now that the election, the election, the local, the local elections for local communities to direct presidential elections, in all elections year after year, is getting worse and worse, then I guess that election legislation that hasn't changed worse and worse. I don't see how that makes any sense, but okay, deal with election conditions, the law. I know that when the time comes that this government will come before the citizens of Serbia with concrete results, with a clear report on what we have done all these years every day, every week, and I am sure that citizens will be able to recognise it, whatever electoral legislation it is. I think that at the end of the day, no one can cheat in the elections, that they feel it in their pocket, feel about whether they have a job or not, whether they have a perspective for their children or not, whether they have better health care, whether they have better ways, whether it was easy for them to get to the prime minister, the president, the minister, this is the government, and all together with the President of the Republic who has never been easier to reach. I was in the private sector when it came to the minister being a mental noun, it was the gods on earth, you couldn't come, and that's why they lost power, not because of election conditions or anything else. As far as irregularities are concerned, please, you know it better than I do, the opposition and opposition parties in each polling station have many more controllers than the ruling coalition has because there are many more, because numerically, individually, there are more. They have a lot more controllers and they report irregularities and we hear from the cycle of these irregularities, about those irregularities, this happened to us, this happened to us, and when you look at the record, you have not one, one or two applications that the competent authorities can react to. So we can't deal with hearsay. If we want to have a democratic state, a state of institutions, a rule of law, we have to go through controllers, lists and concrete applications. I'll tell you in the end again from the local elections in Belgrade as a confirmation of my theory that in today's day, especially in large urban areas, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, you can't get away with media freedoms, at censorship, on electoral terms. Belgrade, which is the core of the parties, as they are called today, because they change from day to day, but DS, SDS, New Party, there is the core of their voters who, if they watch the media, watch these media that we talked about where the SBB operator is and they determine the numbering and usually watch the first programme, i.e. N1 TV or absolutely watch TV, but are mostly on social networks or informed from web portals that you can't censor. So, in local elections when they get, at their core of their voters, 2.24% - 18,000 votes as a coalition of four parties, and now they say we want to boycott both the Assembly and the elections, gentlemen, so look at you in the mirror. Well, it's not because of election conditions, it's because of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56284	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56285	Thank you. In my final comment, I'll tell you a few things. So calling for the election day itself to have a lot of irregularities still doesn't mean that the elections are regular. All those who have found there are irregularities in the elections, and irregularities are recorded in the period ahead of the election day. One of these irregularities concerns exactly balanced and even media representation and is called a functional campaign. You know, that's when a public official with a public sector vehicle accompanied by other public officials at the time of the election campaign shows up on TV, so you know if he's there as a candidate or a public official, so he caress cows a little bit, opens up factories a little bit, and he's running for public office during the elections that are currently under way. So no law has been passed in this assembly without the proposing being the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, initiatives to amend electoral legislation must obviously come from the government. I have no illusion, no matter what electoral law I suggest, if it is even put on the agenda, it will be adopted. I have no mandate to demand it, but experience teaches us that only the laws proposed by the government are adopted here. There is also a need for this because two-thirds of citizens believe there were electoral irregularities, and one-third is convinced that they were of an impact on the election result. All 11% of citizens feel that there are no electoral irregularities and that the elections are completely regular. Twenty-eight percent of citizens believe the voter list is insufficient for manipulative reasons. On the other hand, two-thirds of citizens would support initiatives through which the electoral process, electoral legislation and the role of state authorities would be improved. So this is something that citizens also see as a need, even though you've referred to me in your answers the need for these things, to say, not deny, but, come on, relativize. So, I would most well-intentionedly refer to the recommendations made by the NGO CRTA for these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56286	The question is asked by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56287	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to talk about one thing that hasn't been mentioned here so far. I would begin with the fact that the previous government and this government have particularly recognised the need for the first time in its composition to have at least a single minister without portfolios to take special care of regional development. Mr Krkobibic came to this place, which raised a particular issue of the development of the village and of the rural parts of our country as part of the overall problem of regional development. What is important, the government, following what the minister is doing, has launched some things, and in particular Mr. Minister in charge of these issues for the first time, seems to me, I don't know before, to have included the most competent scientific circles on the development of the village, so the Academy of Science through its Committee on the Village. Things may have been developing not as much as expected, but I think to a good enough extent that the President of the State, Mr. Vukic, as you testified, a few days ago when the National Council for the Development of the Village was formed, in his statement to the general public, made it clear that the state had full capacity behind the rural development programme. I think it's something that we're not saying enough as one of the probative things in the work and program of this government. I think the development of the village is one of the cardinal strategic state issues. As far as the government has defined itself at this point, let's say, for what I think is mature for that, two things, which is to approach the creation of a strategy for the development of the village and rural part and another thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56288	Thank you. You'll have a chance to ask an additional question. The word has Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56289	Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Prime Minister of Brnabic, the honourable MPs, Mr Kovacevic, raised an important question. Indeed, it has not been ten days, large things have been promoted in Serbia's political scene. When I say large, I mean for the citizens of Serbia and I mean the announcement of the concept of rebirth, the overall rebirth of this country finds. That was recently spoken by the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, and just a little while earlier we have established the National Team for the Rebirth of Serbia's Villages. Dear MP Kovacevic pointed out that the team represents an atypical creation, an incendiary creation, something they created in a partnership relationship, first of all, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the structure of government, republican and local. The goal is very simple – how and how do we change the conditions of life in the edged mountain - mountainous and rural areas? Here's some information for you, honourable MPs, most of whom I assume you're from the village. I hope your origins are proud of you. Recently, a respected actor, Nenad Jezdic, addressed Serbian towns and citizens of Serb villages. It's well directed, and I think it's just an invitation to step aside and look the truth in the eye. Thousands and two hundred settlements in Serbia are about to be shut down. A thousand have fewer than 100 inhabitants. I'm going to give some information that apparently doesn't follow each other, but 73% of the village doesn't have a home of culture, in 400 villages we don't have a store. Today, we have 400 inhabited places where citizens of Serbia, those who chose you and us, have no opportunity to buy bread, basic provisions of life. I don't want to tell you if there's anything they can do to buy the right medication. I would like to point out today's presentation by the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncar, who at times was emotional, but an exhibition that depicted the true state of things in our health and the real needs of our people. In the next period, Mr Kovacevic, the Academy Committee for the Village and this team will try to give valid assumptions to define a comprehensive strategy, a real policy of equal regional development. Of course the citizens of Serbia know, the team will not define that strategy or that policy. That's what this one or some new congregation majority will do. We know very well where these things are defined and where they are adopted. It will be adopted in this House, by this calling or by some future summoning. But what is very important in all of this is that in the next period we will give practical models, practical models how and how to improve the sources of existence in the Serbian village, including agricultural land. One piece of information that's interesting to you, too, here today. The average age of the owner of agricultural land in our Republic is 61 years. Sixty-one years has a Serbian host, the owner of a household on which this country is also resting and, I would say, the backbone of this economy. When we talk to these people, we want them to know clearly what we're going to do in the area of infrastructure, travel networks, plumbing, sewers. When we talk about the travel network, we think, first of all, about the local roads, the ataric paths. For those of you who don't know it, that's the way from home to that field. Let's see what kind of condition they're in, but not just when they're flooded, not just when the top officials come to visit and cross those bridges, to see what we really have to do and how we have to do. We're going to go out to you with concrete information about how many of these ataric paths are, how hard it is, and how much it costs, and how much it costs that mile of such an ataric path. Here's Ambassador Chevarlic and his suggestions, when we talk about architectural pathways. He says, "You'll make them if you don't have a curb and that canal that leads by that architectural path." I'm saying this to illustrate the seriousness of accepting all concrete proposals. We'll take suggestions from people who know the problem. Not virtually, but essentially, really. Let's see and hear, we'll go among the citizens of Serbia, to distant villages to see what their remark is and what their suggestion is. The team's task in the coming period will clearly define these models, and from the Serbian government, we expect this assembly's majority to receive full support. When I say full support - this is also something we cannot and cannot share. This project has no opposition. We are at this rally at the Sava Centre, this will concern an MP who spoke before me, spoke about the dialogue, showed that we can gather people of different orientations, that their priority is survival and the rescue of Serb settlements, and that we are ready to hear their remarks and suggestions. And that's where the President of the Republic defined a clear position. All ideas that are founded will be fully supported by the Republic of Serbia. It is the first step in the announced programme of his total rebirth of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I don't doubt that we're going to make Atari roads, I don't doubt that we're going to raise factories, let you know that we've formed 460 cooperatives for two years, I don't doubt that, but the most difficult thing is to change our mentality, change our habits and be ready to face everyone, but just everyone, with real problems that touch us all. That is why this team's task will be something that will be under public eye, Serbian citizens, but I would say the success of this all depends on our willingness to take an active part in all this. In the final consideration, this will concern Mr Risticevic especially, because he is a farmer by vocality, and this is a quote from academics Radomir Lukic, who says – modern agriculture can be done without a Serb village. Big possessions require mechanization. They do not need farmers and residents of the village, but the village and people living in the country need agriculture, and this village is necessary to Serbia. If we lose that village, we lose our roots. If we don't have roots, we'll continue with the debs, and we're deep inside them. Epilogues, honourable MPs, all of them are some future villages. Unfortunately, they last, so make it an appeal to meet everyone on the same side of the table, ready to catch up with a key, one to say, of the key problems of Serbia, but also to give a model of how to solve all other key problems of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56290	Thank you. You have an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56291	Unfortunately, there are neither the Home Secretary nor the Defense Minister, and in this regard, Madam Prime Minister, then here I am speaking to you and of course to the Government. It is about the following, the international situation and the security situation in which Serbia is located that imposes the need for innovation, i.e. by adopting a new national security strategy. We are in the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as early as last October, informed that the Commission, which was formed to make the proposal, had finished the job. I'm surprised that it hasn't gone further, at least we don't know anything about it, so I ask the government – when will we approach the definitely adoption of this strategy and predict whether, in the context of the adoption of the strategy, the examination and addition of the structural and organisational side of the overall security system that is, I think, very important and necessary, given the completely altered security circumstances and international relations compared to some 10 years ago when it was brought into force?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56292	Thank you. Who wants to answer? The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56293	I'll check the time frames of the strategy and I'll get back to you. I don't have that information right now, but I'll check it out, I wrote it down, so I'll get back to you. I don't have a time frame right now. I need to check with the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56294	Thank you. Do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56295	I would like to ask about the previous question, which I asked, even more to say, that, with what I said, my expectations and our MP group that things about the development of the village that I was talking about have come to a degree when we think, we're assessing, so we'd like the prime minister's answer, that the government should think that these jobs, which are now at the level of the minister without a portfolio, should move to the level of the ministry for that question. Given that I have stressed that I consider this to be strategic, one of the key issues of the country's development.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56296	Thank you. The next MP to ask the question of Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56297	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected Prime Ministers of the People's Republic of Serbia, the very top historical, heroic episode from the past of Serbia, includes certainly the defence of the 1915 city of Belgrade against the joint German-Austrian forces. In defense of our capital, two Bosniak regiments, i.e. battalions, made up of Sanjay Bosniaks, made a huge contribution. The third and fourth Bosniak battalions were part of the First Call's 10th Staff regiment, which had four battalions and came from the Ibar Division area. It was an elite unit composed of 20-30-year-olds, and I stress that at least 1,500 Bosniaks participated in Belgrade's defence, which was about 15% of the total number of soldiers who defended this city. A famous testimony about the fighting of Bosniaks from the Third Battalion in downtown Belgrade, and under the command of Shems Midovic from the village of Gonja near Sjenica, who heroically defends the move between the National Theatre and the National Museum, which was a kind of Belgrade-based Termopil. Colonel Radojevic describes with admiration the heroism of Bosniak Šefket Halilovic, a member of Sjenica, who commanded the warboat "Pobed" and gave the strongest resistance to this route of penetration, which in the first wave was the main direction of breaking into the Austrian army and gave his life there. In Sandzak, there is one present dedication that the monument to the Unknown Hero on Avali was erected above the remains of Sulajman Balic, a member of the Duga Poljana municipality of Sjenica, who died of a German grenade in the withdrawal of our army and in 1915. More than 1,000 Sandzak Bosniaks died defending Belgrade in October 1915. But today, no street, no state institution, no barracks, bears their mention of a mark, no name. These brave men, then young, who gave their lives for this country deserve certainly to receive at least a memorial in the very centre of Belgrade, where they left their lives, in Adi Giganlia or the Danube Key and in other parts of the city of Belgrade. Therefore, I call on the Minister of Military Mr. Vulin to initiate, but I also call on the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government of Mr. Ruzic to allow, in co-operation with the city of Belgrade, a street on these moves to be named after these truly honorable and courageous people whom we all owe it to, especially the citizens of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56298	Thank you, MP. Do you have any other questions, since it wasn't a direct question but an initiative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56299	I'll keep going, but let's make it a final comment. It is evident that there is currently no generality of Bosniak nationality in the commanding assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it would be of great importance to strengthen the trust of all minority nations, and above all, Bosniaks, this country would be promoting at least one or several officers in the rank of generals. I know that there are several officers in the Army of the Republic of Serbia with completed general staff school, with excellent evaluations, with responsible duties in the military and with high rank, which could be produced in the rank of generals. One of the basic objectives and motives of the SDP is the even involvement of all national minorities in all the institutions of this country, and above all, as a representative of the Bosniaks, I insist on representatives of my people and I think that this act would be further initiated by the Bosniaks and other minority peoples to become more involved in the Army of our country. Therefore, I call on the military minister to do something in this field, as well as the Prime Minister to suggest that something like this should happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56300	Thank you. This was in the form of a comment, two minutes. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56301	Thank you, esteemed presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will use the first three minutes to ask a few questions. First question, Minister Antic. We know that the aim of the ministry is to improve energy efficiency and address environmental problems that can be caused by the use of different energy sources and that as a country, we are turning to renewable energy sources. We know that a few days ago you signed contracts with 24 local self-government, where the ministry and the government irrevocably subsidise projects to improve energy efficiency. This, as far as I know, is the largest amount the ministry has defined from the Budget Fund to improve energy efficiency. So far, by raising energy efficiency in 53 buildings, we have saved 40%, leaving room for that saved part of the money to be invested in something else at the bar level. Since local self-governments have participated in the competitions so far, for facilities of public importance, schools, kindergartens, homes of health, my question is: Is it planned to allow citizens and potentially legal persons to compete for the allocation of funds, in order to make energy efficiency improvements available to them, I think, above all, to apartments, houses and business facilities? The next question by Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, put the issue of poor demographic images of Serbia at the very top of my priorities, so I would like to take the opportunity to ask the question of the country's real answers to demographic problems, how does the Chamber for Demography and Population Policy, whose head you are, cooperate with local self-government units, how much funding has been invested this year to finance the population policy measures across Serbia, and do you already have concrete results from these activities? And the last minute to take advantage of only, Mr. Ruzic, of the sector where you are headed, is significant because of the efficiency of the expertise and commitment of the state administration and the authorities of local self-government depends on the ultimate line and quality of life of citizens and the achievement of their rights. This is recognised, above all, at the level of local self-government, or local communities where citizens live and work, are treated and educated. The fact is that local self-government does not have enough own resources to invest, or maintain a new infrastructure in the city. In this regard, I would ask you – is there any way for the state or your ministry to assist local self-government in the realisation of infrastructure projects. And very short when it comes to the Ministry of Environmental Protection – what measures and activities are the Ministry of which you are headed, Mr Trivan, taking the initiative to provide quality projects in the environmental protection sector, which is the basis for attracting the necessary investments and will Serbia be able to open negotiating Chapter 27 in a recent period and thus continue its European path in this area? I'd only like to ask for short answers. I'm not gonna use the next three and two minutes so my colleague can ask a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56302	Thank you for your collegiation. The word has Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56303	I'm going to make sure that even the largest parliamentary group has time, only the shortest to say. So far, we have done 53 projects through the Budgetary Energy Efficiency Fund and the results are truly remarkable. The energy efficiency and rehabilitation measures of these facilities in local self-governments that are in public property have reached savings of around 40%. With this last call, we made and concluded contracts for 24 new facilities in local self-government units and we expect that trend to continue. The funds from the budget fund are intended only for public facilities, meaning buildings owned by local self-government, but we have serious ambitions to open up opportunities for citizens, above all, of course for the economy, but above all, for citizens and we will do so through the new energy efficiency fund that we will form by the end of this year. As you know, we, last year, have provided for a new fee, which is symbolic for energy efficiency, and which should be the initial capital for fund formation, to which the EU will also join its grant, and we expect that by the end of the year we will have this fund that will have more than 20m euros in its account and that we will provide these funds to citizens, which is very favourable loans on the one hand, which, on the other hand, is certain grants for energy efficiency projects and for the purchase of energy-efficient equipment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56304	Thank you. Sandra Christmas's final question. We have room for one of your questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56305	I thank President Gojkovic. Honorable members of the government, the Honorable Prime Minister, I will be very brief. My question today is to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic. We are aware that digitalisation has become a daily topic in Serbia, as early as possible, you will agree, it was not the case and citizens have growing confidence in digitisation and its advantages. In this way, we started, as you yourself said, to run into steps and much more advanced countries of the world, so since tomorrow, as you said a little bit, exactly two years ago when here in parliament, you've exhibited exposés in which as one of the top priorities you've just pointed out in the work of the government to digitize education, can I just ask you to briefly tell us what is concrete about these two fields done to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56306	Dr Slavica Djukic will answer you first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56307	I'll take the previous part of the question, and then the Prime Minister will. I thank you for asking the question you asked because without the support of amending the Law on Ministry and Government, or supporting the idea of the current president of the state that the government must deal with the issue of population policy, there would be no result that we are all very proud of. In fact, in the first five months of this year 835 babies were born more than last year. Of course, it's not just financial incentives, it's simply other measures that arise from the birth-enhancing strategy, but for a short period of time, there will be an opportunity for us to talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56308	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56309	Thank you, first of all, for this question. I will try to be brief, although you know that I can talk about this for hours and hours, that this is not only my great passion, but also something that I see as the best opportunity for Serbia to make this qualitative step in the 21st century, to achieve to the fullest extent all the potential we have, and we have many. I would say that at the beginning of this government's mandate, we, too, put our focus on digitising in terms of education, creating education that can educate people for the 21st century and a more competitive economy, e-government to have a more efficient and transparent public administration that is fully focused on citizens and on the services it provides to citizens and on the economy, in order to make that transformation into an innovation-based economy. Just for a little while, I thought I said that, and when we heard some criticism at the expense of Minister Sarčević, whom I would commend and who I would have stood behind this time, we might have done the most in education. All of these things have been going on before and have been launched at the time of the government of Alexander Vukic and this team that really works fantasticly on many different fields of infrastructure, infrastructure improvements to health infrastructure, to the judiciary, to social protection and social rights. So, in many fields, we have already set out to make a truly significant step, but as far as education and change in the reform of our system in education in the past two years, I think Serbia is absolutely recognised as one of the leaders in Europe that education should look like for 21st century with huge support, because we could not do it alone, but huge support of civil society organisations and businesses, introducing coding and programming as a mandatory subject to basic school. What they've been trying ten years ago and no one has been able to do it, but in a way that we're really one of the leaders, that children from the fifth grade of elementary school learn the programming language "sretretch", from the sixth "patton", now since the seventh grade of the elementary school "pxgame". We're going to have a new generation of kids who'll finish primary school and enroll in high schools that have knowledge, some of which have gotten into colleges. So that's really one standard we set. Introduction of digital textbooks, 2000 digital classrooms. We have only allocated an additional 20m euros in the budget this year for 20,000 digital classrooms, digital teaching content. Networking the five first five hundred elementary schools on the fast, wireless internet. As a country only in 2015, we received the first scientific technology park, which was opened by the government in the term of Aleksandr Vukic, the Scientific Technology Park in Belgrade. I am infinitely happy and proud that by the end of the term of office of this government we will have two other scientific technological parks, the Science and Technology Park in Novi Sad and the Science and Technology Park in Nis, which we started to build a laboratory lamela as a research and development centre at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis, a project that has been planned since 1975. After 43 years, we've been destroying this project. Which in the domain of the e-Government ended the business of transferring the parent books into electronic form. We finished the job of transferring the facts of citizenship into electronic form, which we connected the databases so that for the largest number of papers citizens are no longer couriers but we are the service of the state. So far, we have introduced this on June 1st, 2017, to date over two million two hundred thousand data has been exchanged automatically. So, two million 200,000 papers didn't carry citizens from office to office, we did it ourselves, automatically. The e-baby project, extremely important and for a signal of what we want, what kind of administration we want to be towards our parents, or families, where you were supposed to take three days off from work to report the baby and report to the baby for health insurance, where you're doing it in 15 minutes, completely free of charge at the maternity ward today. Finally, to end this, somehow and that is already seen, our sectors, information and communication technologies are far the fastest growing sector of our economy and becomes already after only these two or three years, the backbone of our development. So we have a growth of 21% in 2017, 26% in 2018. At this point, 30% so far, in 2019. For the first time, Serbia, as the only country in the region of this part of Europe, is also thought of by Bulgaria and Romania, included in a report that observes the start of a world-wide innovation ecosystem, and we as a country are in the first five countries in the world by talent, knowledge, block-cane technology and the production of video games. So, we're on the right track, and I want you, too, to all the MPs from SNS, the SPS, the ruling majority to thank for that support that you then gave me and that government programme because many of them didn't believe it at the time, and I'm really happy to present all the results we've achieved on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-27-0.u56310	I thank the Prime Minister, thank all the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for participating in this session. Since it is exactly 19 hours and 10 minutes now, three hours have passed for questions, we are finishing the session in this part and I thank the MPs who took part in this session. Resumption of the session and debate is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
