ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57740	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 97 MPs present, i.e. that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go, Dr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I question Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic -- why did none of them respond to a statement issued Monday by EU Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Han? He said there is no room in the EU for those who deny genocide in Srebrenica, and I think it is high time that our government said there really is no room for Serbia in the EU, thank you, we will not join the EU. There was no genocide in Srebrenica, and finally the Government of the Republic of Serbia should collect all the arguments available to inform the world public that it was a major hoax involving the International Court of Justice by not checking whether there was genocide at all, but thanks to Radet Stojanovic, one of the traitors who Draskovic there sent to represent our country in BiH's lawsuit. It was not verified whether there were genocides, but called for General Krstic's verdict, and General Krstic was convicted of aiding and supporting genocide, although the crimes do not exist in the genocide convention. And until then, no one was convicted of genocide, and they condemn him for aiding unconfirmed genocide, because genocide cannot be established until it is proven to a specific man that he had genocide. I am today referring you to the recently printed book of Milivo Ivanisevic "Saga o Srebrenica" in which you have concrete information that Muslim courts in the Federation are making solutions that change widows' dates and place of death of their wives, and it is said in the solution that it is because it could receive compensation from the Dutch government, it says in the solution. Then, Milivove Ivanišević found that nearly 1,000 missing in the 1996 elections voted in Srebrenica, that in the meantime they were gradually dying because they were buried fresh corpses in the Potocari Memorial Centre, not as dug bones, as they like to say from mass graves. There are also 86 photocopies of various documents forging data from people who died in 1992, 1993 and 1994 declaring themselves murdered, shot in July 1995. What is important to note here, Prime Minister Brnabic says it was a terrible crime. It is a terrible crime to shoot between 1,000 and 1,200 prisoners, but it is an even worse crime when Muslims in Sarajevo kill between 4,000 and 5,000 Serb civilians, so no one asks that question, even Serbia has forgotten it to a large extent. We can't be followed by this Potocara complex, the Srebrenica complex, we want the truth, but the whole truth. I've tried to concentrate all the data we've come to, and it's on the way and the third to where I'm going to finish it. But it's a job that the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to end, to stand by its authority behind the data, to check them first, and then tell the whole world -- don't play with those things anymore. There was no genocide, and who organized the crime? That no one tried to establish in five places was the shooting, it was established only in one place in the military economy of Branjevo, who shot about 300 Muslims, because there was that Erdemovic, and in four places it was unknown, but it is known that he was not a member of the Drinko Corps. No brigade in the composition of the Drinski Corps, and Erdemovic himself spoke of a large amount of gold and exchanges that came ahead of the shooting. So someone on the outside prepared it, Beara, who was the main organizer on the ground, died, took all the secrets with him to his grave, kept quiet. We have to do this another way now to determine, but we have data from the Dutch War Documentation Research Centre's report, for war documentation, that the SAS special unit was in the Srebrenica area at the time of the shooting, because the SAS soldiers were coming to the Dutch base at night, to wash, to take the mud off themselves, to clean their weapons, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57742	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Vladimir Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57743	Thank you very much. On this day, we're going to ask the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes. Namely, the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, Article 387 of Position 5, stipulates that anyone who publicly approves, denies the existence or significantly reduces the severity of genocide, if those acts are established by a judicial verdict in Serbia or the International Criminal Court, will be sentenced by a prison of up to five years. The International Court of Justice in The Hague in 2007, ruled that there was genocide in Srebrenica and that is the verdict that exists, for which Serbia did nothing to prevent it, although it was obliged to the Convention on the Prevention of Genocides. The Hague genocide court has condemned a total of 15 people for genocide in Srebrenica. The BiH court has condemned 25 and four other proceedings are under way. In all, The Hague court and courts in BiH, Croatia and Serbia have so far sentenced 47 people to 704 years in prison for genocide, crime against humanity, and other crimes committed in Srebrenica in July 1995. The European Parliament, in a resolution adopted on 29 November last year, expressed its view that it regrets the continued denial of genocide in Srebrenica from some Serbian authorities, reminds them that full co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the inherited mechanism also includes full acceptance and application of its rulings and decisions and stresses that the recognition of genocide in Srebrenica is a fundamental step in Serbia's path towards joining the EU. These are some facts that some may like or not. We're interested in the war crimes prosecutor delivering statistics on the Srebrenica case. We ask the Ministry of European Integration and the Prime Minister how will they react in their policies to this provision of the European Parliament resolution that I just quoted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57744	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57745	Dear Chairman, today I would like to ask two questions to Minister Sarčević. It has been 15 years since the state is no longer the sole publisher of textbooks, i.e. from the introduction of private textbooks for primary and secondary schools. According to some data, more than 80 textbook publishers have been registered in Serbia. It is a huge area for private publishing, as there are about 800,000 primary and secondary school students in Serbia. The Law on Private Publishers allows for considerable freedom and space in which they can self-edit content, which is not always guaranteed the quality of the content of textbooks. We are witnessing that there have been plenty of content that have not been suitable for the age of students. For example, in a workbook for “The World around Us” we found that the product of grapes is a wine, therefore, an alcoholic drink. You, too, from the book "World around Us" for the first class years ago wrote that next August will be 29, instead of 31 days, and April 31st and so on. Some of these textbooks have been withdrawn, but not to give a number of examples when history textbooks contained incorrect and politically colored data without scientific background. How a textbook for a student should be the authority of knowledge, i.e. to give inexplicable facts, not improvisation, is a very important quality of textbooks. In that sense, I would ask Minister Sarčević, whether, starting with the 15-year experience of private publishing, the Ministry, or the committee that approves individual textbooks, they are carrying out an analysis of the content of textbooks for primary and secondary schools, starting with the objectives and programmes of each educational cycle, from the expected outcome of education at a certain level, or whether existing textbooks provide this quality from the aspect of objectives and outcomes that are to be achieved by regular and compulsory education? The second question I would ask Minister Sarcevic refers to elementary schools that are no longer used for their primary purpose. The fact is that for decades Serbia has been pressured by the white plague, that many small communities are empty and that entire villages are disappearing, that we are losing an entire city of population over the course of one year. In this regard, the government has taken strategic measures to combat the white plague, but they can give effect after many years. The discharge of many environments also causes the number of students to be reduced, so that a large number of primary schools, especially in rural areas, are already abandoned, or not used for a basic purpose. How is it that many of the facilities of which many are in very good shape and represent a large material property of the state, I would like to ask Minister Sarčević - whether it is thought about it or whether a specific programme has been made to place school buildings with belonging properties in the role of education of different facilities that would bring the village back to life, such as schools in nature, youth camps, cultural facilities, rural tourism, recreational programs, etc., or to give up to rural cooperatives, rural households for their needs, and NGOs, for example, for the needs of scouts, mountaineeres, environmentalists, forest harvesters, etc? So at least one number would be put into office and prevent further destruction of large state property, and we believe that all of this would contribute to the resuscitation of some abandoned and depopulated rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57746	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. Is anyone else answering for a word at 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57747	Thank you. I have repeatedly spoken here that this institution of parliamentary matters is one of the few areas in the work of the National Assembly and the people's MPs that works as much as possible. Far from getting answers to all the questions, of course not, but second time I'll be apostropheing the addresses from which the answers don't usually come or don't come at all. But, I say, most of the subjects, i.e. objects of which an opinion or answer is required, mostly responding, sometimes more formal, sometimes more content. In that sense, I received an answer to some of my previous questions from the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Finance. I'm not saying that I'm satisfied with these answers, but I also find that they are not entirely routine, formal, in the sense that they have tried to provide some explanation and clarification, which is the meaning of this House of Parliamentary Issues. However, with the foreign ministry's response, and there are two, I must say, and in one sense seek the addition of that answer. The reaction or non-existent reaction of the foreign ministry and that incident of harsh insult by the Serbian state and the SPC by officials, i.e. top Montenegrin Embassy official in Turkey. Secondly, it concerns that now the central theme of my issue is the ban on entering Montenegro four Serbian citizens. So, four Serbian citizens and intellectuals, by the way, Matija Beckovic, Cedomir Antić, Aleksandr Rakovic, Dejan Mirovic, was denied entry and stay on Montenegro's territory. The answer I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was, on the first question – Yes. We didn't react because the Foreign Ministry took action towards its official. As for this second issue, i.e. the ban on entering Montenegro, that Serbia on this issue, I quote: "will not impose reciprocal measures on Montenegro. I did not ask for reciprocal measures, I asked and now I repeat that question – does our Foreign Ministry consider that there is room for any reaction, notes, the invitation of Montenegro's ambassador to the foreign ministry, where Marsh is either any move or measure from the domain of diplomatic measures to something which, I repeat and stress, is a flagrant case and an example of human rights violations of Serbian citizens and a ban on entering Montenegro. It's not about any criminals and suspects, but rather, prominent intellectuals, some of whom are from Montenegro, some of whom are not. So in that sense, I ask for further clarification from the Foreign Ministry, but I commend the effort to answer something concrete, not formal. My second question goes to the address of the Ministry of Education, Mr. Sarčević, whom I ask – did the Ministry, and I heard a statement in the media, but that is one thing, is now an official response, does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs consider it to have grounds, reasons and needs, given what is happening in the last days in the public and the media, to launch an investigation and inspection procedure or something from the work of the Ministry of Education in connection with the recognition, or the diploma of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Mr. Stefanovic, therefore only briefly – does it have a basis? Are they going to take it or not, I'm not entering the classifications of that part? The last question, although it obviously won't be much time, is just a distraction, and I will write a letter to the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, to draw attention to the absolutely unacceptable and flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure and I would say even human rights, particularly the political rights of opposition MPs in this House of National Assembly by one side of the ruling majority's representatives, but in fact by the chairmans of this Parliament, who in its absence, particularly the chairman of some coalition parties, or the younger partners of the ruling party, or they may not or may not oppose the speakers of the ruling majority and, in that sense, harshly violate the Rules of Procedure, allow the replicas not of two, three minutes, to end the sentences, that is correct and that is correct, but the replicas of eight, 10, and even 15 minutes before all, but not only of the majority of the Slovenians, Martinović SNS. It blasphemes and compromises and a good will expressed by the president in this House, as well as an attempt to make this home as much as it works in normal parliamentary frameworks. That is why one part of the position and boycotts this parliament, and I say the treatment of these few opposition MPs here shows that one part of the Assembly, including one part of the Head of Parliament, is not hearing enough about these formal matters. What is said on the Administrative Committee, that we do not enter, there is everything and everything, we will later discuss these content issues, but simply formally and procedurally do not allow replicas, allow the opposition and allow an infinite series of replication that lasts 5, 10 and 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57748	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57749	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have just listened to the previous speaker 40 seconds longer. So that's double light to me, twice luck. He doesn't buy luckys, but he wins the lottery. This is the man you put past the list of speakers to talk about Kim at the most important session and he is complaining about the procedure now and I can say that if, if so, you need it. I can say the same about Ambassador Djuric. Yesterday, you gave them the right to a member of the RIK and a deputy member, although they do not have between 12 and 14 MPs in the group to do so. Today is MP Đuric, and my first question concerns the chairmanship of the Assembly, what will he do about the outrageous appearance today of MP Đuric? What are you going to do because there is a Declaration of the National Assembly on the Great Crime in Srebrenica, where it is said to be a great crime, but not genocide? We MPs unless we respect the documents of the National Assembly do not deserve to be ambassadors of the people. MP Đuric has deliberately read the provisions of the laws concerning the denial of genocide here. It is forbidden to deny genocide, but only one established by a permanent International Court of Justice, not the UN tribunal. So once again, he roughly deceived the people's MPs and put some people in jail. So it's my question – what are you going to do about it? I'm sorry about all the victims in Srebrenica, but also the victims around Srebrenica. If there were no victims around Srebrenica, and there were 3,267 people of Serbian nationality, at least 2,500 civilians, if there were no victims, that there were no crimes around Srebrenica, which has more genocide elements than Bosniak leaders claim and the UN tribunal, therefore, had there not been this first crime from 1992 to 1995, I believe there would be no crime in 1995. So, I regret the Muslim sacrifices, but I like the imaginary victims, the ones who vote. Why do I like them? Because they're alive, because they vote, and I regret every real sacrifice, but I'm asking if Serbian victims are illegal, were they declared outside the law? Do any of the Bosniak leaders honor Ivan Mustafa, but of the strongest Muslim Bosniak leaders did anyone come to Bratunac? Has anyone come to St. Peter's Day to bow down, honor the Serbian victims who made their victims happen? Has anyone come to Srebrenica? I'm not counting Boris Tadic. He's half of us, half of them. So, the president of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic came to Srebrenica, bowing down to the victims. That's what the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukitch, did. Do you know how it went? We all saw Dodik coming. I ask if Izetbegovic came to Bratunac, both older and younger? It's not. That is why it is a shame what Mr Đuric did in the National Assembly, denying both international laws and the Declaration of the National Assembly. So I'm asking what you're gonna do about it? My second question goes to the D.A.'s office. There he is, George Vlah, the day after the Jeremic affair, also warmly drunk as what I showed for Tadic. He's right here. I ask what the prosecutor's office will do about the operation of Jeremic while performing the highest state functions? Will he be prosecuted for acting against the constitutional arrangement of Serbia-Montenegro that had its territory and its borders and its Constitutional Charter and against the functioning of the declaration of the false state of KIM and its support for the state, also against the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57750	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57751	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have witnessed the last days of the hit against the interior minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic by both Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic and others from the Alliance for Serbia, then some media such as N1, the list "Today" and many others and some calls independent experts. What is extremely symptomatic is that the campaign began one day after a major investigation was announced against Dragan Djilas, who announced just now Nebojsa Stefanovic. It is obvious that Nebojsa Stefanovic is so where he shouldn't be, that in his own kind of nest, what the people would say, has caused an incredible amount of hysteria and anxiety at Dragan Gilas, who currently gave the warrant to go on the campaign. What is the sin of Heavenly Stefanovic? The fact that he dared to launch an investigation to ask the question of how it is possible that someone who had claimed for years that he had actually been rich in the Czech Republic, that he had become a millionaire there, that he had entered politics as a rich man already, as a man and so on, and then turned out to be, and that it had been written by journalists, that all of his companies in the Czech Republic had total profits of 74,000 euros throughout business and existence. So he hasn't spent a single penny in the Czech Republic all the time. He could bring a maximum of 74 000 euros to Serbia, or more dinars. Now, the main issue is being raised -- how many out of those 74 thousand euros came to 25m euros, how much now he officially claims to have, or admits, 25 million, although we know that much more, is even ten times more, but he admits 25 million? Now the question is, my friend, you've got 74 grand, you've got 25 million today, how? It is all at the time of his party's government, and during whose time he himself performed many important state functions, the director of that non-existent office, the minister, if I am not mistaken, for the NIP, and then the mayor of Belgrade, etc. There's no answer. That's where we keep our mouths shut. Instead of answering, we have a hack on Minister Stefanovic, we have a campaign on some kind of falsification and everything else we've been looking at on the N1 for days at "Today" we're reading. I have no doubt that tomorrow's editions of Time and NIN will be dedicated to it. What exactly is this about? It's just a distraction from the investigation, and it's all because of the fear of what that investigation is actually going to show. My question has just been addressed to the interior minister and it says - will this investigation cover the period when Dragan Gilas was mayor of Belgrade? Why am I asking this? Because this is the period marked by many multimillion-dollar affairs in which Dragan Gilas was the main actor. It's safe to say that his entire term of office was actually one big affair. We talked about these affairs several times here in the National Assembly, we also provided concrete data, instructions for concrete amounts. There is a reasonable doubt that the result of this very difference that I was talking about is from 74 thousand to 25 million products from these affairs that I'm talking about -- "Bus Plus", "Pazl City", the acquisition and installation of underground containers, the purchase of Spanish trams, the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, the Bridge of Ada, etc., and many other affairs that need to be given a final epilogue. Furthermore, this investigation should also show whether Gilas' "Darekt Media" has acquired an anti-legal property benefit, and to the detriment of RTS of 650m dinars in the period from 2009 to 2018. The issue is said to be illegal business of renting television seconds, and at a time when Dragan Gilas was in power. We can also read about Gilas' character and his ambitions in the book of Ivan Stankovic, "Kakadalogi" is called a book. It is a co-owner, in his own time, of the marketing agency Sachi and Sachi, the older generations are probably remembered from the 1990s, which says -- then one of the leaders of the 1991-1992 student protests came to our agency, one of the founders of Radio B-92, Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas. He had very clear political ambitions. One of the first things he said was that he wanted to be prime minister. They were alive, and they saw it. This same Ivan Stankovic later in an interview says that Professor Ivan Steinberger, who was also the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy, came and told us one day -- I have a guy, he's a leader, great thinkers, thinks of Dragan Gilas, you should get to know and work with him. Afterwards, Gilas went to the Czech Republic to carry the crates, and then returned to our agency as the director of the media. He wasn't interested in self-advertizing, but he's a fantastic merchant, an exceptional manager, he found himself in a media business. As he has found himself, we can see that he has made 25m euros in magic 74 thousand euros. You've all extended a few seconds, and let me finish for a few more seconds. So we have a situation where, in all likelihood, someone has acquired in a highly suspicious way an unsuspecting wealth, an unsuspecting wealth, in an extremely suspicious way, while Serbia's citizens have been rapidly poor. And now he would return to power, to continue with his personal wealth. But there is one problem, the citizens of Serbia know well what I was talking about, and the citizens of Serbia know well that they appreciate who deserved to lead Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57752	Thank you. I'm setting a break until 12.30 p.m., when we'll continue our work on the second item of the agenda. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Consideration of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018, submitted by the Citizens' Protector with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 17 June 2019. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Mr Zoran Pasalić, Citizens' Protector, Olja Jovičić, Secretary General of the Professional Service of the Citizens, Tanja Dlesk, v.d. Assistant Secretary General and Tatjana Rakic, Senior Advisor. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector on 19 March 2019 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 17 June 2019. The word is Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57754	I think he's a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure, where the President of the National Assembly, or chaired by the President, on the application of this Rules of Procedure, means Article 2. Indeed, I must point out that the Rules of Procedure are very clearly defined, and so this session is called, that our plenary work is from 10 to 18 hours. In time, we set out, or sent the agenda to all participants in the debate over the agenda point that we have ahead of us, and I see no reason why it came to us at 10 o'clock to start asking questions and then give a break until 12.30 o'clock to discuss the Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018. I think there's also been a lack of respect for this House. We are not an independent trade shop that should also adhere to some rule of working time that stands out, but we are a parliament representing citizens of Serbia. In the European Commission report, we received recommendations and criticisms, and the Citizens' Protector has repeatedly reiterated that we are not discussing the report. Parliament is the most important institution in this country, because it is the representative body of citizens of Serbia. The Protector of Citizens cannot be, or anyone else, above the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. When we schedule a session to discuss the Citizens' Protector's Report, it's the most important thing. The protection of citizens with associates must come here at a time when we invited him, and your obligations of some other nature, which certainly cannot be measured with the importance of dialogue in parliament and the importance of discussing your report for the past year, which is why we have received criticism here as a parliament why we do not, cannot be something that cannot be moved. The work of Parliament cannot be repeated. They cannot adapt to the obligations of the Protectors of citizens, but rather on the contrary. When we schedule a session, we expect that at the time that we've predicted discussing it, the Guardian comes here and shows respect for us. Thank you. I'm asking to vote on Article 27's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57755	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. We're moving on with our work. Do the representatives of the promoter, Mr Zoran Pasalic, the Protector of Citizens, and MP Petar Petrovic, the chairman of the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government, want a word? The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57756	You have not given me an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. How did it happen that we were discussing this report at 12:30, not since 10:00 p.m. when we scheduled the session? (President: you're right. ) Please explain to me how this happened and whether I am right that there has been a lack of respect for Parliament by the Guardians of Citizens. Someone went out to meet him. Parliament Speaker Protector of the citizens, to know the MPs and the public, did not go out to meet. Yesterday I sent a message saying it's out of the question that we're taking a break because the Citizens' Protector has other things to do. So the President of Parliament didn't meet him, nor would he. After all the criticism we've received because we haven't discussed the Citizens' Protector's Report. We're having a debate in July and we scheduled last week. So, there was plenty of time to make a schedule in the obligations of the Citizens' Protectors, not Parliament to make a schedule for how the Citizens' Protector comes to mind. So I want the public to know that I didn't meet the Guardian. It happened in another way, past the real forms of communication between the parliament and the one we invited here. If someone keeps saying that we do not perform the function of other authorities or trustees to a sufficient extent, then to know what challenges we face, that everyone in this country today thinks that it is above Parliament. If we are to strengthen the institutions of Parliament and the reputation of our parliament we must speak openly, what it looks like in reality, whether it's the Commissioner or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57757	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I owe an explanation, or an explanation, I think you're absolutely right and I'm taking over, as you lawyers would say, a kind of responsibility. By the way, I found out at ten o'clock and 50 minutes that we're gonna keep working at 12:30. But again, my responsibility, since I chaired Parliament, so I didn't have that information, so I couldn't continue the normal work of Parliament in accordance with our rules, procedures, as you said, to begin at 10.00 hours, and to finish our work at 1600 hours, unless there are valid reasons for us to continue our work as the previous days. (Maya Gojkovic: 16:00 hours) ) By 6:00 p.m., as it says in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57758	I accept your explanation, I'm not asking to vote on it, I insist that we work until 6:00 today and that the trustee comes tomorrow because of the time we lost today by his fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57759	Thank you for your suggestion. We will continue, of course, with the work and the work system as it says in the Rules of Procedure. Now I'd like to give a word to the proposing representatives, Mr. President. Zoran Pasalic, Protector of the Citizens. Here you go, Mr. Pasalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57760	Thank you very much. I'll come tomorrow, it's absolutely not a dispute, as I don't think, far from it, I wanted to influence the work of the Assembly at all. I asked, I received consent, otherwise, I would not have done anything on my own initiative to change the work of the congregation, or the terms in the work of the congregation. If it's considered my fault, I'm really sorry, I certainly wouldn't have done it without consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57761	Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57762	Dear Protector, I don't know what's in the regulatory body with you and who's notifying who and who's asking for consent to certain procedures. With us, it's all defined by the Rules of Procedure. And if the president here in front of Serbian citizens, he claims that you have no communication with me, no written, no oral, believe me, because, for every sentence I have spoken, there is a court of citizens and they vote, or they do not vote, in the next term for me, or for the political party I belong to and represent here. There seems to be something different about you. You didn't get the consent of the President of Parliament to come when you could come, in your opinion, and that's the only truth. Whoever you got it from, it's completely to me at this point anyway. We'll be doing as scheduled today, until 6:00. I don't want to keep MPs here in a time that would suit someone else. We get very important, significant criticisms when we do something beyond the rules of this congregation. We broke up with that practice. We have respected every recommendation that has come, not only from the European Commission, but also from the other side, but then from Parliament we want to make an institution, a house that everyone respects, every single one of their gestures. We don't want to be anything to do, when anyone has time to come over and fill out some form, we want to essentially discuss your report. You've said more than once in public that you haven't had a chance to discuss the report. There has been an opportunity, and you cannot place parliament as an obligation of half-one, and that another thing is that some other meetings get priority over parliament and citizens' representatives. I do not want to accept it, not because of myself as a representative of the citizens and in general because of all these MPs here representing Serbian citizens, different political options, whether they are parties that support the government of the Republic of Serbia or whether they are MPs representing citizens who are voting for them, who are currently in opposition. For the sake of the entire parliament, I insist that you apologize to us. I don't know what meeting took priority over the Serbian parliament? What meeting is so important that you are delaying the session of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and that anyone is meeting you for this reason, and for weeks we are getting warnings why we are not working, so why don't we work, why don't we discuss your report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57763	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57764	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, breach of article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. It's not just about the Guardian of Citizens. We have independent regulatory bodies and organs. This independent body, Protector, I have a feeling that they think they have blackmail capital. So this blackmailing capital is growing every day, as is this part of the opposition. Everyone complains, all of them like, something the most important organ in the country doesn't fit, something she hasn't considered, something the congregation isn't willing to do. It is not according to their will that the organ that has appointed them is not according to their will, the organ that has chosen them. If you don't let us do that, we will appeal to the Holy European Commission. And this case with the Guardian shows that independent organs and bodies think they're divinely independent. No, they're not independent of the National Assembly. The National Assembly chose them. Perhaps I would like the report of the Committee on Agriculture to be discussed in the plural, about the report of the Ministry of Agriculture, so that I too can say about agriculture what I want and have my own session. However, this type of report is not under consideration. Here, as far as I can see, we have the right to direct management of the National Assembly. Our President of the Republic wasn't late, he wasn't one minute late. He came in five minutes early. When he was Prime Minister, he was coming right, answering the questions of the MPs. It's not just about the Protector, it's about the Trustee, the conspirator and the other independent regulatory bodies and bodies, who think they're divinely independent of the Assembly, and we can't let that happen. I'm not asking you to vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57765	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Now the representative of Mr. Zoran Pasalic, the Citizens' Protector can address, possibly respond to comments from the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57766	Thank you for your comments. I would really like to apologize to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although for, not the delay, but for setting a second term, it is my serious question and it has been a serious request whether this would be in any way feasible unless it is feasible, I would certainly comply with the term of 10.00 hours. I really think that in this situation, this can only be solved by truly apologizing to all of you, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57767	Thank you, colleague Pasalic. Does MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Is anyone answering for a word? The squirrel Radeta answered her word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57768	I didn't sign up because we expected the Citizens' Protector to say something about his report, but in any case, we have a report ahead of us, and without that preliminary presentation, we're ready to talk about him. The position of the SRS when it comes to regulatory bodies is generally known and we do not believe in the independence of these bodies and we are confident that other state authorities should do their job without these auxiliary bodies, but when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, we must respect the Constitution, because it is the only so-called. an independent institution provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we are looking at this state body. But precisely because the Citizens' Protector is foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he obliges him more than others to take care of the interests of the Serbian state and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this report, we had the opportunity to see, in such detail, what the Guardian of Citizens was doing and what has been done so far, what is planned etc. There are some things that are good that have been done, but there are more important things for a country that, in the SRS' opinion, the Citizens' Protector has not dealt with or at least has not dealt with enough and we actually want to talk about it. Why did I even start this with our unbelief in the independence of these organs? Perhaps one of the best examples is just the previous Citizens' Protector, who was actually a politician, who was also a Protector of Citizens, was already in the presidential election campaign. You, Mr. Pasalic, for now, at least in public, have not shown such aspiration and be careful to keep it that way until the end. If you want to and if you want to deal with politics, then make a nice resignation, and wait for it to pass for a while, and get into politics. So we don't have that kind of remark. Here you were already at the beginning in the opening part of the report that the next step is your adoption, i.e. the proposal, I suppose, because adoption is in the National Assembly, amending and supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens. Indeed, if that function must exist, and it must, because it is prescribed by the Constitution, it really needs to change the law and that what you do must have that someone who does not respect it must bear certain consequences, because this is how it all comes down, whether you do or do not, nothing happens to someone who does not respect an order of the Guardian of Citizens, and that is not good, then you are only formal and then your existence means nothing. What we don't like is that you said you initiated the creation of a network of ombudsmans of the Balkans to better connect ombudsman institutions in the countries of the region. We Serbian radicals want to draw attention to both the public and all the state authorities, and we do it regularly, so that all of you break out of the Western Balkans, the countries of the region, etc., we are the state of Serbia, one of the countries in Europe. This is something that is imposed, this Western Balkans, the countries of the region, that is something that is imposed from the West, to slowly enter, here, and in your report as a state body, and it is done by the ministers, simply to get into, let me say, and into the ears of the people, and the point is that it is actually trying to form this group of states, about it's SFRY, but even worse than that, these countries are planned to become NATO members and then once they join into that formal Western Balkans or countries of the region, as you say, then it goes towards that path, and that's why we don't want to use that term at all. You as Protector can work with the protector of this or that state, but avoid this, don't do anything that will be harmful. Speaking of which, as you say, the formation of the Balkan Ombudsman network, we have not seen whether or not you have taken what you have done when it comes to the human rights of the Serbs in the present Croatia, and I still find it the most difficult position for the Serbs in Montenegro. Here we expect that you, as someone whose function the Constitution predicted, and the majority of you are elected by the assembly, expect your particular activities, if you need to be directed to some of your proposals both to the government and to the president of the state and to the ombudsmans in these countries. In any case, every state body has to deal with a team. You have also mentioned here that the complaints of citizens, this is the end of your opening act, most of all talking about the violation of the right in the field of the IRS, the illegal work of the perpetrators and the inefficient judicial administration. We advocate that the Guardian of Citizens be given the authority to protect citizens from every level of government, from the President of the Republic to the local community, or vice versa. So, you have to have such information and we expect in these amendments to the bill, that something like this will be envisaged, because without it, I repeat again, we don't need the Protector of citizens who are going to sit in the cabinet, have some people, receive a salary, and from whom citizens have no benefit at all. This has nothing to do with who the Protector is, but generally with the function. I don't know if you know, say, you have the most objections, among other things, to the illegal work of the perpetrator. The Serbian Radical Party has been leading the action since May and we are collecting signatures for a petition on the abolition of public executioners. We intend to propose to the National Assembly a proposal for a new law on enforcement and security for the autumn regular session, where it will not be possible for public executioners to do this job at all, and especially not in this way. It would be logical, if you had already had these remarks, that as the Protector of the Citizens on the subject, that you had held a conference, that you said that we were obviously invited by the fact that a large number of citizens are dissatisfied, that you are also receiving such remarks and that you, as Protector, support such an action. The fact that we are currently a party to the opposition doesn't bother you to react in the interests of the citizens, especially when you say you have the problem yourself. Also, a reaction to the Citizens' Protector to the Notaries. Do you think, as Protector of the Citizens, that it is normal for all signatures to be taken from the jurisdiction of courts and local self-government and that they have been transferred to some notaries that are not in each municipality first, and then a municipality that has no notary can sign off in both the municipality and the court, and the one that has, the citizens have to verify everything there for an incomparably larger amount of money than it is with the notaries. Do you think it is normal for the signatures before each election to be certified by the notaries or can it be returned to the authority of local self-government, or courts? These are all things that are of interest to every citizen and you don't have to wait for every citizen to speak to you individually, so that you come out with the position of the Protector of the Citizens. You didn't react, we discussed here, here a dozen days ago, maybe less, about the municipal militia, and that's where we expected your reaction. You know, what's envisioned by the Law on the Communist Militia, not to convince you of the law now, I guess you've been following, something that's absolutely unacceptable, that a municipal militiaman, without a uniform, can bring a man in, put handcuffs on him, beat him, legitize him. So that's where we expected your reaction, your attitude. It was the same thing when building managers were introduced, I'm telling you about some institutions with which, already citizens have huge problems, I'm sure it's coming to you. When we speak, when the law is passed, the majority of the congregation, of course, does not accept our views, because they have a different approach, a different concept, and therefore such laws are proposed, and it is logical that the majority vote for them. But you're not the patron of the congregation's majority, you're not the opposition, you're the patron of the citizens, but in some of the important things, where, completely 180 degrees, some relationships change in society when it comes to doing some services, you have to show up. The issue of public procurement is something that we discussed the other day, when he was here, I don't know representatives of various commissions, it doesn't matter if we Serbian radicals have been talking for months about a problem with public procurement, that the law is not respected, that big deals are being concluded without public procurement. We always take, for example, the American firm Bechtel and the 300m euros we claim to have been taken from the budget, via Scott and Zorana Mihajlovic, you are not a judge, you cannot question it, as a judge, but as the Guardian of Citizens, because the money in the budget is the money of all citizens, both mine and yours and those who are not here, you also have to think about it. Today is July 11th, today is the day when war crimes took place in Potocari, Srebrenica. Today, unfortunately, we had a terrible shame and shame here, that the MP, who allegedly boycotts, had returned to the assembly, said who liked it, who didn't like it, was genocide. That's terrible, of course you can't send an MP out of parliament, neither can we, but we believe that someone who thinks so and who can say that, that citizens will never greet him in the neighborhood again, I don't know how much shame he's going to get home today, how he's going to get past someone he meets in the neighborhood. It's really something that's unrecorded, of course it has nothing to do with you, but it has something else to do with you. Have you noticed, heard, seen, read, that a group of those caraconjoules, who call themselves "women in black", developed a transparency to ask the Serbian state to admit that Srebrenica was a genocide? Such things must be responded by all state authorities, from the president of the state, to you as the Protector of citizens, all of them, because these voices that are coming from the West are increasingly heard, there is a new condition that Serbia must recognise that Srebrenica was genocide, so that we remain a genocidal people forever, in order to eat and go to the EU. You've got to be specific about that sort of thing. Of course, we Serbian radicals know, it's proven, it's been established and we believe that most of the MPs, so I guess everyone sitting here today is convinced that there is no genocide in Srebrenica. I don't even know what his name is, but I just want to say that he knows people in the neighborhood to spit it out by anyone who meets him. Do you also know if you are, and you can't possibly not know, why you haven't responded already here, every year since you've been in that place, that a group of these NGOs so-called. NGOs and that they belong to some governments but not to the Serbian government, to organise some festival "Mirdita" that the Shipari are laughing at us face to face in Belgrade. No one is responding, some fools are going there to watch, some traitors of their own people and their own states are going there to applaud them, and we want the Guardian of Citizens to say at the conference, people can't do this in the state of Serbia, what "Mirdita" in Serbia when no minister of the Republic of Serbia can enter Kosovo and Metohija. Here, yesterday, the day before when doctors with VMA and Vulina were also banned from entering Kosovo and Metohija, and we allowed the Mirdita festival to be held by the Shyptarians of some breakthroughs that await the breakthrough in Belgrade. Do you also know if all you colleagues know, that Kolarac, the famous Kolarac, is leadership and, because Kolarac is an institution, that they've allowed some breakthroughs again, the hohstapplers are holding a play there tonight where they're going to promote genocide in Srebrenica. So this is just amazing what's going on with this country and this people and nobody's responding. I don't know if it's in the jurisdiction of the city of Belgrade, who's setting up leadership there, that leadership must be changed completely tomorrow. Tomorrow they must all be replaced, those who have allowed the alleged genocide to be promoted at Srebrenica in Kolarac. There's gonna be someone out there tonight to watch it and applaud it, I guess, like this MP who said today, who liked it happened. Here, it happened that we were discussing your report today, but this would be our theme and all these topics that I'm talking about and that was another day. He really hopes that at least after this debate and other colleagues from the SRS, you'll probably have a colleague of the others who are going to talk about this today, to hear what the Citizens' Protector thinks about it. Tomorrow, Zalaziu, in one place in the Srebrenica municipality, holds the mention of Serbian victims, Serbian victims who killed hordes of Naser Oric. Does anyone in Serbia know that? Of course, the SRS delegation will be there. Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric will wait for our people in Republika Srpska. Look, you guys have to work not just for this moment, like we do in politics, we have to work for history. We must leave behind something that generations after us will be proud of, not by our actions or by our actions, to help keep the sprawl of the people safe for some time when we are gone. We can't act like that and we can't do that. You are here in this report, it is important to mention that you have concluded that in Serbia, same-sex marriages are not allowed. Well, they're not and they shouldn't be. You're dealing with something you really shouldn't be dealing with, at least not this way. We don't mind gay populations, we don't have anything against people like that, let them live their lives in whatever way they like, but that the Protector of the Citizens complains that gay marriages are not allowed in Serbia, that's unacceptable. They're not in the Constitution and you can't talk about them. You can talk if you think someone is personally threatened by a right, by someone in that population, we will support you to protect their personal rights, but this certainly doesn't. You're also talking about people with disabilities, national minorities, people who are deprived of freedom. I'm not sure, I don't really know that national minorities in Serbia have some problems. We Serbian radicals advocate having absolutely every right to the highest European and world standards, but we do not believe that anyone has problems as a national minority in Serbia and should not have. When it comes to face-deprived freedom, here I end up seeing I've wasted my time, just one more sentence. I have to tell you there are problems when it comes to the face being deprived of freedom. You know that there are some persons who have been sentenced illegally for 40 years because they have been punished for acts that did not exist as crimes at a time when these acts were allegedly committed and, say, Zvezdan Jovanovic and the Legion have been completely isolated for years and with the glass of those impenetrable separated. They can't even pardon a child, they can't say goodbye to a woman or a family member. It's been going on for years, I guess it's been prescribed from the guatans. It's also your job to deal with things like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57769	Thank you, Comrade Radeta. Now the word is Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57770	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Pasalic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. We have a very important report ahead of us. It is important for all of us and those who are sitting here and all those who are in the executive government, because it shows in some way what a pleasure it is to the citizens by the work of the government's authority at all. I wouldn't go back too far to the past, nor would I deal with the former protectors of the citizens and their reports, but I also need to say the satisfaction above all that this function is no longer politicized and that now it's really working the right way. Yes, as far as I understand it, you do not claim any political function, nor do you deal with politics in the place of protectors of citizens because it would be a suspension of both the Constitution and the Law on the Protector of Citizens. We've talked about this problem before as a PS. For this reason, I can freely say that we consider your report relevant and professional and comprehensive. I read it in detail. Every single problem you have dealt with has been described in detail and it is important that all the shortcomings and recommendations that you consider to exist based on what you saw on the ground and on the complaints of the citizens are shown. With that in mind, I want to say that we are all here together to debate, discuss and see how and through which amendments and amendments to the law can affect the improvement of the position of all Serbian citizens. First of all, I would single out as the crown of your work in this report, the "Open door" campaign you conduct in Belgrade, as well as the days of Obdusman, in the interior of Serbia, because in this way we are approaching citizens, which is the goal, especially you as an independent body to which they can address, but all of us here who are on the ground daily and talking to them about all the problems they have. I'd also like to commend your interior office. From what I understand, I read in your Reports, you have an emergency department, which is very important, because it is important that as soon as possible and in time, it responds to all complaints from the citizens and that is for every praise. We should not compare ourselves with other countries in the region, the Balkans, but there is certainly good practice when we talk about the circumstances that carry out practice on their duties both in Europe and in the region. It is good that you have made these bilateral agreements with both Bulgaria and Turkey, with Slovakia and Russia, because that way we can improve our work in Serbia. Our country, I think, is certainly a parameter for a high level of respect for human rights, because we have proven, not only with countries in the region, but also in Europe, what we had for migrants, when there was a major crisis and how humane we treated them, regardless of any restrictions in, above all, the financial resources that we had for sure. What worries me more than anything is the data I read, it's that a quarter of the total number of complaints received in relation to the rights of the child, refer exclusively to violence against children, and it's really alarming data, and it really is necessary for all institutions to work harder to solve this problem. It is also important for your report on women's representations at the decision-making venues, because I believe we have a major shift here, given that today at the executive posts, both in the state administration and in the government, so in the seats of the president of the municipality there are women. We in the Assembly have a women's parliamentary network that supports and offers proposals of this kind for the development of women in general, to better manage and work on these leading positions, as well as gender legal budgeting, which is also important. That's when we talk about gender equality in management positions. Also, the important part of your work is the position of people with disabilities. I hope that, even though you have an assessment here that it is not yet satisfactory, it is done quite a bit, so I hope that from year to year you can notice that the trend in the quality of life of people with disabilities in Serbia is, and as accessibility you listed as the main basis, the main prerequisite for equal participation, which you certainly are. We were in particular, while I was in the township of Voždovac, we were all dealing with a lot of accessibility problems, because there were a lot of buildings and institutions that had no technical conditions to build the ramps, but as larger Voždovac city municipalities, we worked to get some other help like the caterpillars, etc. So we would allow every person with difficulty in moving to make those facilities accessible, so I believe that other local self-governments are doing the same thing, that it's really been raised awareness about it for the last few years, which is certainly the way we should continue. The second topic is the low employment rate of people with disabilities, as well as the difficult position of people with autism. That's what really is the problem, which I hope will improve in the next period. You mentioned the situation in the area of social protection, especially when we talk about local self-government, lack of employees in social work centres. I would point out one fact that we have repeated several times and I believe that everyone already knows that sentence, but I have to repeat it, that in the period of reform and the period of saving, no single dinar of social giving is diminished, so that it is again talking about what kind of situation it is, or what it feels like to people who are socially endangered, the awareness of citizens, the awareness of the government towards them, and in any way that human and effort is really being treated as much as possible. Also, taking care of the oldest, Ministry of Labour, Fight and Social Affairs has been taking care of it through rigorous control of nursing homes for years ago, the city of Belgrade through various types of programmes, home assistance, and I believe that when we talk about this area, it has been improved compared to previous years. As for young people, you say they face unemployment, economic problems and that's what it's all about. Education needs to be coordinated with the labour market, so we started this dual education. I want to point out that unemployment is much less than it was in the previous period, and I hope that this problem that exists in all countries, not only with us, youth unemployment and youth outflows abroad, will grow more and more from year to year. You have launched the "Accessibility for All" project to raise awareness of citizens' accessibility. This is a good step and a concrete goal of this project is to improve local policies, when we talk about the accessibility of citizens, at least when we talk about social inclusion of people with disabilities, older and all vulnerable groups. I think your report is really comprehensive, I looked at all the tables that you have listed and you have concise numbers and percentages and how many complaints have arrived and which cases have ended within a certain period, but what's important is that there is a high level of action on your recommendations, and that means that we all work together teamly and that it's a really great possibility and I'm sure that in the next period, we'll all be working on them, and it'll get better and better. From the above, I would also like to point out that the MEP Group of the NSS-USS Socialist Movement will support your report in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57771	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. Is he still answering for word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57772	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pasalic with his associates, fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support the Citizens' Protector's report in the voting day, because there is a reason for that. First of all, the report is comprehensive with all aspects that the report should have. It covers all segments of activity, i.e. the competences in which the Protector takes action. Unlike an earlier period, this time we have something we haven't had before. We didn't have lethargy, we didn't have inertness, we don't actually have, I apologize, to be precise, and we don't have what's most important, running away from our jobs. It was all before you came to the position you were in. The truth of the matter should also be pointed out that we have finally received the Protector of Citizens, who is not concerned with politics and politics, but with his work and it is by the MP's SPS group in any case and commendable. Your Honor, if I may put it that way, I would like to refer to a part of your report with a special accent, and it refers to the treatment of convicted persons. I am also speaking from the point of view of the profession I am working on, on the one hand, and on the other hand as chairman of the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions, which was formed by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so this Parliament. What you have identified as fact-finding and what we do not suspect is that, in these circumstances, the treatment of convicted persons can now be regarded as more positive, incomparable in a more positive way than in an earlier, or earlier period. In that direction, your assessment really stands. On the other hand, and what you have determined through the supervision you have carried out, of course within the limits of the jurisdiction you have, is that both criminal and jurisprudence institutions, i.e. correctional institutions, have, in any case, contributed to improving the conditions of convicted persons during the duration of the maintenance of the sentence to which they have been convicted. I would like to draw attention to an extremely positive example, which is an example of a criminal correctional institution, i.e. a criminal correctional institution in Nis. This correctional institution has managed to revitalise, by means of its own resources exclusively from its own income, a complete institution, or a complete institution of ruined objects, from cells or better to rooms in which there were once 16 to 18 convicts, who had not the most deprived conditions, not for living but for staying, beginning with toilets, hygiene and all other things, this criminal-repair facility has managed to build, while renovating existing facilities in which they are satisfied, mostly satisfied EU standards and what the European Commission requires convicted persons to have and that this treatment must be exactly what those standards require. Furthermore, this criminal and correctional institution has managed to make its economy its own by means of its means. A huge number of cattle, which is right there, where meat directly produced for production, or further sold to end users, is going from these production facilities, to call them halams, which was built by the very criminal repair system of the facility, the institution, are now the factories that produce car parts, and there are convicted persons. Convicted persons receive an adequate reward in terms of, conditionally speaking, adequate wages. In this way, the system of resociation of convicted persons is even better and more adequate, in terms of their proper return to the social community, and thus the opportunities for the social community to accept them as factors of which the social community can benefit. Indeed, this is one, obviously very positive example of something that all of Serbia's penitentiary institutions need to have. Mr. Dejan Panic, whom I must mention as the manager of this penitentiary-adjustment facility, has made an unmistakable contribution to the fact that this is exactly how a criminal-registration institution works, just as I have now presented it for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. Not to mention that convicted persons have all the other rights that are recognised by international documents and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the right to a creed which they can rightly exercise within the premises themselves, there is a church, there is a place where rituals can be performed and everything that believers have the right to do and what their right is guaranteed and it is the right to use, or achieve. Furthermore, what is very important to point out is positive in your Report because unlike any earlier period, you have a very fair and pragmatic approach when it comes to problems that arise in society. Unfortunately, we've had another problem recently, I'm saying another one because six years ago, there was a problem, too, and that's the problem with taking the prom exam, or the admission exam. The SPS MPs view this problem exactly as would be considered positive for your actions. What did you do? You requested information from the Ministry on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the basis of fully collected information and evidence, you carried out an appropriate assessment, and took the appropriate position. You protected the children, and on the other hand you respected the institution. What did we have in that same, or similar event six years ago? We had one overwhelming, premeditated, arrogant and unfair treatment of the subjects, Mr. Sasa Jankovic. In what sense is arrogant, premeditated, unprofessional, and unfair? In that sense, that same gentleman, instead of addressing the Ministry of Education, asked for adequate information, as you did, he ruled without any evidence, without any argument, without anything that could at least point to an appropriate and as correct conclusion as possible. So with special recognition and respect for your conduct in a repeated case of breach of certain rules, we need to determine, just as I said. You did the right thing, you did the right thing. As for the other parts of the report, Mr Pasalic, of course they can be accepted as factually justified, when it comes to child rights violations and when it comes to injuries related to so-called. vulnerable groups, when it comes to children, as our greatest value, and therefore, with respect we must always act and act accordingly. I think you've located those points that we can consider to be neural, or where the greatest dangers are when it comes to endangering the rights of the child. In this direction is a suggestion to all the institutions of the system, the parents, us, the MPs to pay special attention to it, especially where children with special needs are concerned. In that sense, our legal regulations must be far, far better than they have been. I'm not going to say it's bad so far, but in any case qualitative shifts have to be done and even wider, even greater rights for children with special needs. There is a particular kind of responsibility in this direction and on us as MPs, but we cannot bear that responsibility alone unless the proposing, or the resolution ministry initiates a procedure for, firstly, the adoption or establishment of a draft, and later a bill that we can discuss here. When it comes to the rule of law, Mr. Pasalic, I would like to draw your attention that you have pointed to a number of complaints against the citizens of the judiciary. In that sense, I would like to highlight one dimension of your action which can also be characterised positively, which is that you have fenced yourself from the influence on the judiciary as an independent, independent branch of government, judicial authority. So you don't have the way to impose decisions on the courts, the prosecutions, because it would be a way of direct influence or pressure on the judiciary. Let's be completely open and honest here. Well, it's exactly what we discussed yesterday that I'm right to point this out, because the former Commissioner for the Protection of Information and Personality Data had no less, no more than the freedom to order courts to do what they should and how they should do, and even solutions are given in that sense -- it's up to the President of the Court to do something. Is that direct intrusion and influence on the judicial authority? In that sense, I must support my dear friend and colleague, Mr. George Komlensky, unreservedly. Of course, it's not within your jurisdiction, but as it's fact-findingly justified, it's absolutely true that we've had multiple violations of the right to the availability of information that is of public character. When it comes to data relating to the portal of the courts, where we, not only those dealing with the profession, but citizens in general can see and learn about data that must also have public importance, because trials are also public. Any trial may be unpublic only if there are special circumstances for this and if such circumstances impose public exclusion, and in any case the public is present. We were denied the public because we could not gain insight into the data of which a kind of caution depends, and on the other hand, the distance from some of the negative phenomena that may occur in the future. Anyone, a lawyer, a citizen, a prosecutor, a defendant, however, must always have the opportunity to gain insight into what is relevant to his legal interest. Unfortunately, that right was denied. I've been saying all of this for the sole reason that we support you just because you've made a clear distinction or a discrepancy between the jurisdiction of the Guardian of the Citizens, on the one hand, and what the courts and prosecutors are doing, that is, the judicial system in general. Of course, it is in your jurisdiction to adequately respond to any complaint, even when it comes to courts, administration authorities, and so on, and even if you do so, to initiate appropriate actions in the sense of giving initiatives for such proceedings, and even to file appropriate actions. But in any case, the jurisdiction between you and the justice system was perfectly clear here. When it comes to others, to call them, the groups that are covered by that part of your report as the opening part of your report, I will mention something that my distinguished colleagues have already commented on. It's about same-sex marriages. To be completely open and honest, regardless of our sensitivities to this group, regardless of how we have one reviled way of thinking that is generated by tradition, customs, education, some different system of values that was previously, because I have to remind the citizens of Serbia, until recently the same full marriages were nothing but a criminal act, and this was a criminal act against natural fornication, and now we have a different system of designing values which, ultimately, we do not want, we have to accept, because it is a system of values that is based, on one hand, on democratic principles and principles, on the other hand, on European standards that we accept as soon as we harmonise with the EU. In that part too, we will accept your report as a member of the SPS, no matter what we have understanding for all those who approach this way. which you have, provide adequate resistance. I hope you understand that, too. In the end, what matters when it comes to social workers, regardless of who the children are, are they women, victims of violence, we have a lot of cases where children are victims of violence, where women are victims of violence, but in recent times and infrequent cases where men are victims of violence, especially older people, in your report we can determine that you have well located problems and that you have drawn appropriate conclusions on how to improve the complete system when it comes to protecting these categories and in this direction, you also have our support. I wouldn't have lasted any longer. Once again, I will refer to what is essential, which I wanted as a professional, as a lawyer, to point out that the rights of convicted persons have finally been recognised, that, based on the recognition of those rights of convicted persons, appropriate analyses have been carried out, that all actors have made a significant contribution to respecting these rights and that is why this treatment of convicted persons, such as the KPZ in Nis, has been significantly improved. In order to avoid discrimination, I must mention that at the moment the KPZ in Kragujevac has made additional efforts to improve investment through investment conditions for the life of convicted persons, that this was done in Užica in a small prison, that in Pancev prison is open to the greatest European standards, where something that can be qualified as the pride of the state of Serbia that such a prison with such a system exists in general in the Balkans, and here there is. It exists in Panchev, where there are no more than two people in cells, where conditions are extremely good, where EU standards are prescribed to be respected until the last detail. So, after a long time, our country has finally defined itself towards something that is good, and this well implies exactly in this segment, a segment of the rights of convicted persons, respect for all that they respect and apply to all EU member states. I thank you for listening to me very carefully. I hope that together we will continue to improve the work of all institutions of the Republic of Serbia system to improve the position of all categories covered not only by your report, but also by your jurisdiction. In the end, I will repeat, in voting day we will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57773	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. My colleague Radeta, do you want a replica of my colleague Jovanovic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57774	My colleague spent a lot of time talking about convicted persons and I, of course, fully understand it, is, first of all, his profession, but I don't agree with everything that's been heard here, especially because I'm talking about it. It's not that great when it comes to convicted people in Serbia. It invests in prisons, the fact is and is being made new, etc., but in my part of the debate I mentioned the case of Zvezdan Jovanovic and Milorad Ulemek Legion. Therefore, the state must not allow you as the Protector of citizens to in any way be threatened by civil fundamental human rights and procedural rights of any detainee or prisoner. No one has the right to judge who needs one or another right. So, everyone has to have the same rights, and it's impossible, there's no law, there's no way that someone can be isolated for so many years as the Star and Legion are isolated that no one can talk to them except through the glass, there's no such possibility in the law. Someone thought of it, as if it were the most negligent that they wouldn't think about getting away. What will run when the process against them will be restored, and when will the freedom to defend themselves and reveal everything that is in the state of Serbia still be a secret, and of course, they have all that information? I was here the other day talking about, say, a letter that came to our Justice and Administration Committee from Ljubisha Buhe Chumeta's lawyer who, imagine, a lawyer, 365 days couldn't get an answer to the question why the letter he delivered to his defender was never delivered to him and why the letters he received were opened. Here, and that's the subject for the Protector.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57775	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Comrade Jovanovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57776	I thank you, Chairman. I truly greatly appreciate and respect everything that he does as a National MP for my esteemed colleague, Veronica Radet, but I really didn't mention her at all in my discussion, so I didn't realize what the basis was for replication, but, well, good. In any case, I don't want to argue with what the Honorable colleague of the Radet pointed out, because she probably has the right facts, likely to have some evidence on the basis of which she made claims, so we have no reason to argue in that direction. However, what I, dear Mr. Pasalic, wanted to point out is an example of two very important examples, one is Nis, the other is Panchevo, that we are working to improve the conditions of the life of the convicts, to improve their treatment and that these examples undoubtedly confirm it, unlike what Mrs. Verica pointed out as a bad example. So I'm going to mention facts that no one will question, because it's enough to leave, like I went to Nis, like I went to Panchevo and made sure it was true. And what exactly is in Nis? It is true that there is a high degree of coordination between the head of security and other services at the Bureau. It is true that there are good conditions for housing, staying and maintaining the personal hygiene of condemned persons in the highest number of pavilions. It is true that quality and conditions for high-level food preparation, that conditions for meeting religious and health needs are absolutely applied. It is true that there are working conditions in manufacturing and other plants within the Office, as well as the possibility of working on individual categories of convicted persons outside the Office, because there is also half-opened treatment. It is true that there are conditions for the primary education of convicted persons, the possibility of their qualifications. It is true that measures are adequately implemented from the possibility of abuse, and it is true that detainees very little complain about their conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57777	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57778	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, guests, independent regulatory bodies and institutions have been established as a state almost a decade and a half ago to protect and promote respect for the rights and civil liberties of public authorities. Therefore, the role of the Civil Protection Institution is to continuously affect respect for human rights and freedoms and that of personal authority and power, as well as the reputation of the institution. This means that it is your job to control the state administration and to react in good time and in public to all those shortcomings and irregularities in order to improve and strengthen democracy and the rule of law. There is nothing more important for the construction of civil society and nothing more important than strengthening the institutions of the legal system and doing so, not just declaratively. It is good that we are discussing reports of independent bodies, not only for citizens, but also for differences in approach and opinions and assessments of the work of independent bodies, and in the most important place in the country, therefore, in this high house. I am convinced that in this way we are sending more than a clear message from the country's highest legislative body, that Serbia is ready to continue to promote and guarantee the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms and to continue to improve the work of the authorities of the state administration, in order to provide additional protection and the possibility for citizens to gain even better their rights and freedoms. Protector, I'm talking to you. Your report shows and contains everything that is necessary to fully reflect and present the activities of the Protector of citizens as institutions in the exercise of constitutional and legal competences and also assess the achievement and protection of citizens' rights against state authorities. Your report is extremely important to us from the SDPS, because protection, respect and continued and continuous improvement of human rights and freedoms is our most valuable and then programme commitment. The Citizens' Protector's report is a kind of social and state-of-the-art scanner in the country when it comes to human rights. And this, like all previous ones, gives an assessment of the state of government and the public sector and points very precisely to the necessary systemic changes through the construction and strengthening of institutions in order to improve the rule of law, respected human and minority rights and the exercise of citizens' rights. On the other hand, the proposed conclusions make clear the intention, and it is clear that the will to strengthen independent institutions in the coming period is clear. The conclusions we will vote shall contain recommendations to the Government to continue continued supervision of the work of the judicial administration, public enforcement authorities and consistent application of the rules in all areas by analysing the effects of the application of the law in order to achieve the rights of citizens effectively and legally and to improve mechanisms for the protection of their rights. According to the report, as you have stated, it is important to repeat this because of the public's public, that citizens in the reporting period were most complaining of violations of the principles and principles of good administration, in particular infringements of the law, the right to respect the legal expectations created and the right to effective treatment, while a third of the complaints, and there were just over 3,000, in which citizens pointed to violations of their rights, refer to economic and social and cultural rights. The quality of the report also indicates a serious approach and commitment to the work of the Civil Protection Institution. You are independent in your work and independent in the sense that the Government must in no way influence your work and solving the case, except the necessary co-operation and assistance in implementing solutions relating to the conduct of the authorities of the state administration. On the other hand, the government and other state authorities also have the right to publicly indicate and say, if you possibly misjudge or analyse some conclusion that the authorities of the state administration are making. We all make mistakes. We're human. You can make a mistake. For example, you were wrong to ask the debate to be postponed in a few hours. So, as you have the right to point to the government's failures, so does the government have the right to determine against them, and then the Assembly is there to control and the work of the Government, but also your work, Your Honored Protector. We are obliged to do so, and we are further bound by the conclusions that I believe we will adopt, and I would also like to see where we are fortunate to adopt them unanimously, whether we are power or opposition. Unfortunately, there is no opposition in parliament... Milorad Mircic: How is it gone? I'm sorry, colleagues from the SRS, I'm sorry. I don't mean colleagues from the opposition who are not boycotting parliament's work, but colleagues from the opposition who boycott parliament's work, which is a little illogical, especially when we talk about human rights and civil liberties, but good. So, our job, in line with the proposed conclusions, is to monitor with due attention the work of executive bodies from the point of view of respect for the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens and to demand that the Government regularly inform us of their implementation. The protector, as I have already said, has established a series of recommendations, almost all areas of life, in which the amendments and amendments of the Law on the Protector of Citizens and the adoption of new ones, such as It's a law of gender equality. I remember, from the time I read the Citizens' Protector's Report as a journalist and editor and followed the assembly's debate that it was never easy or pleasant to listen to criticism and assessments about everything that citizens experience as a serious obstacle to the exercise of personal rights and freedoms in relation to the authorities, or in direct contact with the state administration. I believe that some people are not comfortable today, especially those referred to in your report, but I think that's a good thing. It's not pleasant. Although since the establishment of the U.S. Civil Protection Institution, in 2005, to date, Serbia has built a wide-ranging legal framework for the protection of human rights. There is, there is and there will always be a discrepancy between the high legal standards that we establish daily and practice. Why? For the simple reason that respect for the protection and promotion of human rights and freedom is never enough. Their promotion never stops. I therefore believe that it is important and good that some today are not pleasant, because these are exactly those places that give an opportunity to further improve and improve the work of state authorities, i.e. state administrations. What I'm saying is, I think it's important for the citizens, that matters of human and civil rights and freedom should not be appreciated through our political definitions and in relation to whether we are power or opposition. Freedom and human rights, their respect, respect and protection are the highest values of one society and state, and for their violation there should be no double standards in relation to who violates them. Human rights must not be seen in principle – what a seat, such a view. It is necessary that all together, at least in this home, and the government and the opposition, but it is necessary that as a society in general we work together to strengthen institutions. We often forget that even in much more developed democracies, countries with a long democratic tradition also have problems with corruption and with political, financial abuses, freedom of the media, etc., which should be solved just as we are trying to do today. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia and I personally believe that constructive criticism and healthy controversy are extremely important and beneficial. That's how I see this report, but also this debate. We see both the praises and criticisms of the report, and that, as I have already said, is the right way to define together a space to further improve the protection of citizens' rights, in order to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. To end the full support of the SDPS parliamentary group for your work so far and for the report that you have delivered to us. Later in the debate, we'll talk further about the parts of your report. We wish you good luck in your work. I thank you so much for this first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57779	The word is Alexander Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57780	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have reported formally to the Rules of Procedure because I have no other way to get my word. I want to explain what this is about. Mr. Pasalic asked me a few days ago to come to the National Assembly at 12.30 p.m., as he had an important meeting at 11.00 p.m., which was opened with certain international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. I have informed people who are in the leadership of the National Assembly. I think there's been a misunderstanding. I want to apologize to Mr Pasalic for any inconvenience he may have experienced today, and it is possible that it is my fault, or that I did not convey the content of our agreement well, but I would simply like to inform the peoples and citizens of Serbia that Mr Pasalic did not have any bad intention of discrediting Parliament and MPs in any way and discussing his report. I accept the responsibility that I probably not enough quality and not sufficiently clearly informed those I should have informed that Mr Pasalić could not attend the National Assembly session after asking parliamentary questions, but only from 12.30 p.m. To avoid any confusion over Mr Pasalic's intention not to show up at 11.00 p.m., or after the completion of the parliamentary questions by the MPs, discredits this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57781	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Since you pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of the vote in the stated breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the Verse of Radeta, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57782	It happens from time to time to fellow MPs from the authorities to say that there are no MPs of the opposition in the National Assembly, and we simply have to react every time, regardless of how our colleague straightened out our intervention, but we really want to point out and every time we say that the SRS is the largest opposition political party in the National Assembly. We're a party that's seriously doing its job, we're a system party, constructive, we don't want to tear down the state, and we don't participate in it like some people who don't come here, which is absolutely their thing and their problem. We simply have to stress every time, first of all, for the sake of the public, that we are an opposition party, that we are not involved in politics and that we are not destroying the state in order to get something for ourselves, but that we are doing this job in the interests of the state, in the interests of the citizens. We are the opposition, we want to bring down power, but we want to do it in the elections. And once again, I ask all fellow MPs not to treat us, I don't know which way, if someone says there's no opposition in the National Assembly, and we here are the most valuable and most serious doing our job, then it really is in a way and offensive. No matter what you can say in the debate and something that a man doesn't really mean, this is too serious to be happening to you anymore. And so I ask the chairman, everyone who holds the presidency, to take care of it and to clear up any misunderstandings in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57783	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I didn't want a colleague, Mikhailovic Vacic, to interrupt during the presentation. I don't think she had a bad intention. Of course your presence is visible beside you, of course, there is still a colleague from the opposition, Djordje Vukadinovic, so that he does not appear on the same basis for the replica. So, yes, there is, of course, part of the opposition and the main opposition political option is present and participates in parliament's work. Thank you. Comrade Vacic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57784	Not so much a replica, just maybe as a little clarification. In fact, the point of what I was about to say is it's extremely important that when we talk about civil and human rights and freedoms, there are 250 MPs present here. It's my personal opinion, and that's what I referred to. Members of the government are here and it is very important that when we talk about civil rights and freedoms we achieve as broad a consensus as possible, both in parliament and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57785	Thank you, colleague. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Sandra Christmas. Here you are, colleague of Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57786	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am very sorry that today we missed the opportunity for Mr Pasalic, as the Protector of citizens here, not in front of us MPs, to submit your report, but for the public and citizens of Serbia, because I think you certainly had something to say in this report and to show the citizens of Serbia today in this people's home. I hope that we will have opportunities in the future, or perhaps through some future controversy, to hear what the Citizens' Protector was doing in the previous 2018, up to some details, which are interesting to the MPs. So, before I give my review and my comment on this report, I need to present to the citizens more precisely what the Civil Protection Institution really means, because I believe, although my colleagues before me who have spoken to this topic are very important to say that the institution of the Protector of Citizens has remained almost unclear in the past. It is a strong impression that in the near past she was completely alienated, politicised and politically abused from the previous, I must say, the so-called Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, because I don't know what else to call him at this point. Instead of being an independent regulatory body, the citizens' protection institution by Sasa Jankovic has been politically abused. It served as a kind of platform for running for president, emancipation of personal policy, etc. The examples on which all this has been done and how the institution of the Protector of Citizens has been abused in a very significant period from 2007 to 2017 are indeed countless. These examples could perhaps serve some scientific-fantastic film, some scenario, or perhaps some bad reality, since individuals who are directors of such a kind of reality that have some sort of man-to-mantle persuasion of human destiny and supported in the sense of a self-proclaimed elite are precisely the intention of running for Serbia's president from the seat of the citizens of Sasa Jankovic. It'll probably be the ones I thought I'd mention this time. So, from the Protector who broke the law more often than he served to give citizens their rights, to the "gun" affair and to the presidential campaign, it was indeed a strange way to go. For many obvious reasons, it is necessary to make a distance from this privatised and actually abused roles of the Citizens' Protectors, and to point out everything that the Civil Protection Institution represents and how it must, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, exist at their service, take away the integrity and depolize what it is under the Constitution, remain an independent institution. The way that the former Citizens' Protector did, by day-to-day commentation and by giving political assessments and statements to the public, certainly wasn't and brought down the reputation of the Civil Protection Institution and brought into doubt all those citizens who addressed the Protector and sought protection in this institution in accordance with the laws, and I will remind you that the Institute of the Protector of the Citizens entered the legal order of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, and in 2007, by the arrival of an individual until 2017, this man managed to devast, privatise, abuse and eventually lower. From what is mentioned and what is certainly public knowledge, I repeat once again that the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is an independent, independent state body, which prohibits the Constitution and the laws from any political engagement and operation. Your task, as Protector of Citizens under the Constitution, has been set twice, to protect citizens of Serbia, their rights and freedoms, to control the legality and regularity of the work of the authorities, as well as organisations entrusted with public authority. With that in mind, Mr. Pasalic, thank you for restoring citizens' trust in this institution for such a short period of time. Also, he wants me to point out that in the practical work of the Protector, a protector of principle of justice must be managed, of course within the framework of positive law and his role is far greater than the mere formal respect of the law. The public defender is also obliged to examine the ethics, security, impartiality of the authorities, as well as respect for the dignity of citizens and other characteristics of public administration. With full rights, citizens expect those who, as taxpayers, pay, expect these characteristics to be fulfilled. As for the roles of us MPs, we have also had the opportunity to repeat in the previous presentations of our colleagues that the MPs choose and relieve the Protector of the citizens, and according to that control function they have the right to exercise control. With that in mind, by analysing this report of yours today, for 2018, I must admit that there was a difficult, but obviously not insurmountable task that you, with the problems you inherited from the past, have really managed to overcome. By comparing the statistics you presented to us in the report, I think it is very important, a large number of unsolved cases have been observed, i.e. cases from previous years. So, specifically, you inherited 2,720 old items. In 2018, the number of cases received is 3.338. So, if I understand correctly, you will correct me, according to this data, when you took over the responsibility of the Guardian of Citizens, this institution has been behind for almost a year. For this reason, I would particularly like to highlight certain campaigns that you have initiated immediately after taking office, that is to say, the "Open Door of the Citizens" campaign in Belgrade, the "Days of the Ombudsman of the Interior of Serbia", which have fully revived and justified their goal, and it is precisely the goal of having to do with what I said earlier, and this is the need to reduce the number of citizens, the number of cases that have remained completely unresponsive to the Citizens' Protectors. Also, I must commend the way I work, because I believe that direct conversation and direct contact with people is exactly what returns and guarantees that citizens' trust will return to this institution, which also, I think, enables a better efficiency. Also, by forming the Emergency Intervention Department, I believe that you have become more accessible to the citizens, and that is particularly valuable when it comes to the most sensitive groups of the population, and we have had opportunities in the Report to see what situations you have encountered and where you needed to intervene very quickly. Looking at this report of yours, in several segments you have touched absolutely all the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I'll look back on a few segments you pointed out. First of all, I want to talk to you and consider the part concerning the status of the child's rights because, as someone who participates in the work of the Assembly's Committee on the Rights of the Child in this problem, I also consider that childcare and our least and most precious residents are one of the most important topics that a country, a serious state, must and have an obligation to deal with seriously. You've filed a special report on this subject. I must mention, for the sake of the public, since you have critically referred in this part of the Report to the existence of children's and early marriages, as we have called it, that the state of Serbia, and you know it, but for the sake of the public, I have to point this out, react to this problem and set up a National Coalition for the End of Children's Marriages, which will work to remove these institutional, social, various obstacles that exist in this problem, in order to completely eradicate children's marriages in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Institute of the Protection of Citizens, I say and note, knows this because it participates, in addition to other representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality, the NGO, different associations, etc., The Citizens' Protector also participates in this problem very actively. What I would add as a reaction of the state to the recognised exceptional need for childcare is a law currently in the public hearing procedure, a law on the appointment of child rights protectors, so especially for children's rights. I think it's another step in identifying the significance of this problem and one systemic response where we're really going to have a comprehensive opportunity to take care of the problems of those who are, I say, the most precious of us through another institution of protectors. I also believe that we will have the opportunity to discuss this more specifically in the next report, given that we will already have results in 2019. Also, the part that was interesting to me, and I would like to look back on it, is your report on part of gender equality, i.e. I see that the trend in the implementation of the Citizens' Protector recommendations in this part is 83.33%, which is in absolute numbers in the execution rate indeed, I hope that there will be a high degree of execution in the next period, because I see that the opinions of the Protectors are being carried out and respected, which is very important in this segment. Because, in addition to the fact that, on these issues, Serbia has long bounced, as far as the region and Europe are concerned, on gender equality, with regard to women's participation in politics, I think it is still, and here you are right, in the report when you critically said that it is on local self-government to respond, I have to agree with you. Local self-governments are those who need to strengthen the issue of gender equality through the formation of mandatory advice on gender equality and through greater support that they must give to this body. What is very important and important to point out, and certainly something this government has initiated is the National Employment Action Plan, in line with the general and special protocol for the protection of women from violence, which prescribes subsidies for the employment of persons in the category of more difficult persons employed, where women are now victims of domestic violence. This is a major contribution from the government, a resolute ministry, to the government's active policy to address this significant and major problem, where I must mention, when it comes to the problem of specifically preventing violence against women, domestic violence, violence against children, no authority has so far taken so many concrete measures and has taken absolute zero tolerance towards violence, according to any form of violence, especially violence against children, domestic violence and violence against women. However, if I don't turn out to praise you, I have a kind of little criticism, and maybe I'm wrong, so you'll correct me if I'm not. In the report, I couldn't find any of your convictions, or any part that refers to frequent attacks on women who are participating in politics, and I think you may have had a few reasons to do so on your own. First of all, I am referring to attacks on Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who was even threatened with death, rape and hanging, and many other women who are participating and active as public authorities and public functions, and have suffered verbal violence by men who also exercise public authority. Correct me, I say, here if I was wrong and I may have missed somewhere in the means of public information to hear your judgment and your assessment, but certainly, if you did, I think this phenomenon should have been found in this report of yours. Also, what has made it much easier for the Citizens' Protector to work, and I consider it very important, in which this Parliament participated by adopting the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and it has made it much easier for you to work, which was adopted in 2018, also a good example, a recognised example of the needs of citizens, society, because we have had a major barrier to accessing free legal aid for most or most of that part of the population that represents more sensitive groups of people. This greatly facilitated the work of the Guardian of Citizens, I believe, and certainly, if nothing else, completed the legal framework in the conduct and functioning of the same. Also, I can't help but look back at the part of the report you presented, which concerns the problems faced by members of the national minorities. Since my opinion, according to many reports that I am following in Parliament, that national minorities, especially in Serbia, really have all the rights, all the possibilities guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, in this area I must underline something that you yourself have also highlighted, this is the importance of adopted amendments to the laws relating to improving the quality of life of members of national minorities who are also here in the set of laws in parliament some time ago in 2018 and adopted. You refer to the Hungarian national minority, members of the Hungarian national minority. I am proud to say that the co-operation between Serbia and Hungary is at a historic peak and that these two countries have never had such a high and advanced level of bilateral co-operation, and we can thank only one man for that, that is Alexander Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, who is extremely, with one strategic and healthy policy fostering external relations and foreign policy in general. How high the level of co-operation between Hungary and Serbia may be talking about a statement made by the head of Hungarian diplomacy yesterday by Peter Sijarto, who said Serbia is an example of caring for national minorities, as human rights are the language of basic human rights and their respect and protection affect daily lives of citizens and their standards. For this reason, I believe that these estimates that are in your report are very close to what is really reality, so we have a very good relationship with all members of the national minorities, and I especially have to point out members of the Hungarian national minority. Given that the critical control approach is something that is valuable to every government, where you can directly look at the effect of all the active policies that you provide as a system, your position as the Protector of citizens in this sense is really valuable and invaluable, because by your reaction we have the opportunity to recognize problems in the system and to change and improve the system in accordance with the needs of citizens. No government like this, led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, was closer to the people, was closer to the citizens and worked actively to solve the problems of ordinary people, all in order to make the standard of living more and more quality. It is this dedication to each individual that is visible at every step of the way today. The individual is in the sphere of government policy, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's policy, the overall SNS policy, a healthy, decent Serbia, Serbia, which opens new jobs, builds new factories, builds hospitals, invests in infrastructure after a decade, invests in new roads. The momentum of development doesn't stop there. You have seen from the means of information, President Aleksandar Vukic announced a new 10 billion-euro investment cycle, and as far as all segments of society are concerned, it is also the fact that out of these 10 billion two billion euros he will even leave exclusively for those who make up Serbia's future, and these are young people. Also, I can't miss an opportunity to say that Serbia had a 4.1% growth last year. We are another country in Europe at the level of economic growth, and investment has exceeded foreign direct investment of 3.3 billion euros, and the forecasts are that they will be in the future and greater. Serbia is being built, Serbia is running a balanced foreign, internal policy, with a precise vision and development strategy. Worse and worse, it is all important and important when we talk about the rights and freedoms of the citizens and the care of the individual. Since the Institute of the Protection of Citizens is working within the framework of recommendations, opinions and legislative initiatives and performs and is responsible for protecting and promoting respect for the freedom and rights of citizens in relation to public authorities and organisations, Serbia has thus defined itself as a democratic approach, a democratic relationship between citizens and citizens and between authorities. The ultimate common goal of every democratic government and the Protector of citizens is to contribute to the exercise of rights and freedoms, principles of equality and preservation, above all, the dignity of citizens and citizens. With that in mind, the report you filed shows that the Civil Protection Institution is alive and returned to its citizens where it has always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57787	Thank you, colleague Christmas. The word has been given by the representative of Mr. Zoran Pasalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57788	Thank you. It is my great pleasure to present, after four years in this format, the Report of the Protector of the Citizens for 2018. I am convinced that in this format, and further on, the Report of the Protector of Citizens will be presented, given to the MPs of the Republic's Parliament for insight, and certainly subject to any kind of discussion, including any kind of criticism of the work of the Civil Protection Institution. The only thing I'm sorry for is that the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are not here today in greater numbers, the reasons are you, and you yourself have said thank you, thank you, and this is that in this report and the conduct of the citizens' institution there are no policies, no political affinities and animosities, that my colleagues sitting with me, my colleagues from the institution and I, we have had a conversation with thousands of citizens, looking them in the eyes and that we are the institution that knows best what affects Serbian citizens in everyday life and that this cannot be a political topic, but a fundamental topic that should interest everyone, how the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so all those who are participating the authorities, regardless of who is of these three branches of government. Out of respect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to you respected MPs, I will read the opening word of my Report, because I am not convinced that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and if it exists, there is a full report on the platform, on the website of the Citizens' Protectors, many have taken it over, that they are familiar with it. So, thank you for understanding, so I'm going to take you a few minutes to read the opening word, the Citizens' Protector's Report for 2018. I will stand out of respect for the citizens who, through you, have been elected by the people, and who, together with you, follow my work and expect the results of this work. Human and minority rights and freedoms are fundamental values on which the Republic of Serbia is founded in addition to the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy and membership of European principles and values. The rule of law can be said to always contain two universal functions. First, that it is the guardian of individual freedoms and autonomy of citizens, as well as that it is exclusively related to the possibilities and stability of the order of one state or one community. Human rights titulars are citizens, and the obligation of the state to ensure that the rights and freedoms established by the Constitution and the law are not violated, but respected. These are also basic postulates in our work translated into the Report, which is a cross-section on respect for human and minority rights in the conduct of public authorities in Serbia towards citizens and the document on how and results of this independent control institution's work. This is 12 regular citizens' protectors' reports, and the other ones I've been putting up with since I've been doing this function. In accordance with the Law, the annual report contains information on the activities of the Citizens' Protectors, identified shortcomings in the work of the Authority of Administration, as well as proposals to improve the position of citizens before the authorities of the administration. Given that the Law on the Protector of the Citizens particularly accentuates the importance of specialist areas, the Report contains a review in these areas: rights of the child, gender equality, rights of national minorities, rights of persons with disabilities and older and rights of persons deprived of liberty. Besides, so-called. Good administration resolutions are grouped into three categories: civil political, economic property and social cultural rights. During the report year, more than 9,000 citizens were addressed to the Guardian, and nearly 3400 complaints were received in which citizens pointed to violations of their rights. In the course of 2018, the Citizens' Protector made a total of 297 recommendations to the authorities of the administration, out of the total number of recommendations addressed, the largest number of 144 refer to gender equality. The largest number of complaints by citizens in 2018 concerned the work of the executive government representatives, in particular the ministries around 20% of all complaints, while the percentage of complaints concerning the work of local self-government units is around 13% of all complaints. Also, citizens complained about the work of judicial authorities 11% of all complaints. In most citizens, they complained of violations of rights in the area of good administration and economic and property, social and cultural spheres. Citizens' complaints talk about existential problems and unemployment, as well as inefficient state administrations that are silent when they need to act for the benefit of the citizens. In the work of the Authority, there is often a violation or denial of the rights of citizens, as well as a repetition of the same or similar problems in the work. During this reporting period, the Citizens' Protector records more intensive government activities to modernise the work of state administration through the development and application of various electronic services which are viewed in the continuous expansion and introduction of new e-services for citizens and businesses. Progress is seen in a serious approach and more frequent activities aimed at perfecting personnel from the field of good administration. The "Open door" camp of citizens in Belgrade and the "Embudsmen Days" within Serbia fully revived and justified their goal. In an effort to restore the institution of the Citizens' Protectors to its citizens and to protect them more effectively from potential abuse of power, I extended the campaign from Belgrade to other cities and municipalities of Serbia, as I promised in my opening statement during the elections. During the report year, in regular and extraordinary terms, I met personally with nearly 2,000 citizens in Belgrade and other cities and municipalities in Serbia. Citizens warned of poor public administration experience, complained about the long-term process of obtaining public documents, abuses in the treatment of perpetrators that lead them to the edge of existence, pointed to inspection problems, complained about the efficiency of judicial administration, local self-government, tax services and health administrations. The practice of citizens has proved to be very good, as citizens personally wanted to expose their problems, which they warned in bureaucratic maze procedures, citizens "can't see", they "can't hear" even less. To me and my associates, such talks have enabled more accurate insight, not only into citizens' problems, in the exercise of their rights, but also in the work of state authorities and their possible failures. In accordance with my competences, I spoke with representatives of state authorities and local self-government, whose failures the citizens complained about and demanded observed irregularities of the IC. The second priority in the work was to strengthen the capacity of the Protector of Citizens, which was partly done through the adoption of the Internal Regulation and the systematization of jobs in the professional service of the Protector of Citizens. With new systematicisation in December 2018, the Emergency Treatment Department was formed, which, on the basis of the complaint, available information, but also its own initiatives, responds urgently to the problem of citizens. With this organisational unit, the professional service becomes more efficient and accessible to citizens, as its first results in solving the problem. The primary protection of children's rights, persons with disabilities and older ones, as well as property-legal relations. A special organisational unit within the Civil Protection Service, which performs after the national torture prevention mechanism, is also strengthened by an increase in the number of perpetrators, which will work to improve and protect the rights of persons deprived of liberty and to prevent torture. It is my intention that this department, in line with its increased capacities, increase the number of visits, especially unannounced places where they are located or can be found persons deprived of liberty, in order to strengthen supervision across all prison institutions and departments. Although the position of convicts as well as persons at police detention remains at the focus of this department, in the future the same attention will be given to the institutions of social protection and psychiatric clinics, their closed wards of the most sensitive category of citizens, such as psychiatric patients, elderly, children, adults with mental and intellectual difficulties, in which they may also come, and we are witnessing more and more frequently and there are cases of serious violations of the rights of users and patients. A special report will be submitted to you by the institution of the Protector of Citizens, the honourable MPs. In addition, the department of national prevention and torture mechanisms will continue and deepen co-operation with human rights organisations, but will establish co-operation with both the academic community and conduct research to obtain a comprehensive picture of the position of all sensitive categories. The adoption and amendment and addition of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which is an obligation and which is also foreseen by the Action Plan for Chapter 23 of the EU negotiations. Amendments and additions to the law should strengthen the mandate and guarantees of the institution's independence. The reporting year also marked the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with colleagues from four states. Bilateral agreements have been signed with Manchester -- Bulgaria, Turkey, Slovakia and Russia. Meanwhile, four more bilateral agreements with Romania, Greece, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro. Let me explain. These agreements enable the institution of the Protector of Citizens to take over someone else's, other people's business, primarily to do jobs that are common diplomacy, to solve the problems of our citizens or their families who live, work or are located in the countries that I have mentioned and all others in which our people are located, live, work or currently reside. There are a number of examples, and I'm willing to answer questions about that, where they've shown themselves to be very good in practice. They envision not only co-operation, but also strengthening friendly relations and mutual co-operation between institutions in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms. Memoranda defined the procedures and co-operation of Simeon in cases of violations of human rights and freedom of citizens of Serbia on the territory of the other side, the countries of the signatories and vice versa. There are criticisms that say that the 1992 co-operation itself is in the very writing off of what is believed to be the powers of the Nautilus. I thought and proved in practice that this bilateral co-operation, i.e. this bilateral co-operation, has shown far greater effects only since the moment they started in such a kind of contact and formalisation of these contacts in a very short time, is done for several months. The exchange of experiences of best practices and information related to the handling of complaints and the maintenance of joint events on the communication platforms of the International Manchester Institute and the European Institute of Simeon and other organisations and networks has been agreed. A number of cases have also been planned to organise joint projects and programmes for mutual visits, internships, training and practical assistance in the field of protection of human rights. The Simeoni, or employees of human rights institutions regardless of their name, stayed in the Republic of Serbia, using the experience of our institutions in protecting human rights, and also employed by citizens' institutions, also had training that had improved, I am sure, and the work of the citizens' institution in the Republic of Serbia. I have initiated the creation of a Nautilus Balkan network for better purposes, and the integration of ombudsman institutions in the countries of the region as well as the identification of common problems facing Balkan states. Why was it important to have this kind of contact? The Balkans is a geographical plan but certainly also a curtulological plan, it certainly belongs to what we call the mentality of an area with little differences and deviations as regards thinking about solving certain problems with the same or similar or similar history that touches these peoples. What is most important at this point, which is with the great fluctuation of citizens from these countries who are geographically belonging to the Balkans among themselves. All of this was important for their problems, because the goal was to solve their problems, with not a small number of examples where the citizens of both the Republic of Serbia and other Balkan islands, had problems that they resolved more quickly and efficiently through these institutions, right now the problems of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, who initiated fellow human rights defenders in these countries. Since November 2018, these areas have been recognised in Sofia and at that meeting it is agreed that such a network is eventually, possibly stressed, formed because of exactly what I have stated is the specificity of the history of culture, economic development, often between the countries on the Balkan Peninsula. In short, these are the basic activities they marked last year. I would like to reiterate that I am particularly pleased that today we are considering the Annual Report of the Protector of Citizens, and I hope that the public authorities will take into account the critical assessments that we have given her in order to work more efficiently and protect and improve human and minority rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57789	I would like to thank the motionary's representative, Director Zoran Pasalic, Protector of the Citizens. We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word to consider the regular annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018, i.e. item 2 of the agenda. The word first has the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57790	Present. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, it is my pleasure to discuss today a report that is close to what Serbia deserves to have when it comes to the work of the Protectors. In fact, almost to perfection a balanced relationship between the work of the Protector of citizens, his right to deliver recommendations practically indirectly affects the work of all other state authorities, but the administrations to the line and the border to which the Law and good faith, as we lawyers know to say, allow. Exactly and clearly balanced and defined, without being able to leave any space, at least for the time being, which in this report is to say that there is any interference between politics, politicization and intent to take up and take up other people's, so to speak, powers, thinking about those institutions whose work the Protector is monitoring. What are special areas of interest to me, which I think are well covered by the work of the Protector of Citizens, are from the area of child rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of national minorities, justice and justice, the protection of the environment, social protection and pension-inhabited insurance, when it comes to protecting our citizens at KIM is something that I will talk about a little later on and an area of official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. I think that the objectives that need to be achieved by improving the rights that all of these particularly vulnerable categories have are clearly set, what it is that at this point the state or state authorities or individuals who are in charge and authorised to decide on someone's rights can and should do to improve and practically one instruction and an indication of how such a result would happen at this point. We don't have here just, what we had before, wishes, congratulations and greetings, what someone imagines, how ideal life should be in Serbia and politicisation, what it was in the reports that we had the opportunity to read when it came to someone whose name I don't even want to mention anymore, was the Protector of Citizens before Mr Pasalic. When we talk about the rights of national minorities, a little suggestion on my part, where I think the Guardian of Citizens can play a very important role. I fully agree with these suggestions, when it comes to making a catalogue of names, or it is one of the essential items and rights for which national minorities have in Serbia. Some other segments you have pointed to, but I think the Citizens' Protector can have a pretty good impact on suggestions, especially when it comes to the Albanian national minority, and to point out the need and on their part to respect the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, because it directly affects the possibility of realising their rights. I think that simply boycotting the participation in the list we had reduced some legal assumptions, not obligations, but assumptions that had to be fulfilled that the Republic of Serbia and its state authorities would have in a better way both conditions and opportunities for rights and Albanians living in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji and throughout the Republic of Serbia to be on a slightly better and slightly higher level. It should be pointed out that the irresponsibility of ourselves as citizens when we do not respect the state in which we live can lead to our rights being realised in a more difficult way. What I would particularly ask Mr Pasalic is the finding when it comes to KiM, where the Protector of Citizens has only found, practically unable to perform his function properly. I would really ask the Protector to tell us what, when and how he was trying to get in a position to do his jobs on KIM, from whom he was prevented, from whom he was disabled? I think it is very important that this institution, in addition to all other institutions in the Republic of Serbia that take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their national membership in the territory of KIM, points out to the International Community, because exactly the capacity that the Protector of citizens has as an independent institution in this situation can indeed help people of the EU, the Great Forces, all those living outside Serbia's territory in a serious and responsible way to understand what kind of situation the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in in KIM, and how particularly in a difficult position are members of the Serb community. I really don't think anyone in KIM lives well, not even members of the Albanian national minority, who are completely dissatisfied with this kind of savage authority, conditioned by the authorities, better put in place the occupation authority currently operating there, but they can't say that, these are my personal knowledge from my colleagues who work in KIM territory. That is why I think it is very important that both in this segment and the Citizens' Protector that an even greater contribution to what has been so far has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57791	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has a representative of the promoter, Master Zoran Pasalic, Protector of the Citizens. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57792	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer your questions through examples. First, one little clarification. The institution of the Protector of Citizens did not support the same-sex marriages, but the community of life. I'll tell you what the reasons are. The reasons are protection of citizens' rights, in this particular case are property rights. If two members of the same sex have a community of lives of a few decades in which they acquire a certain asset, by the death of one of them, this other in such legal solutions has no right, unless by an individual act his partner leaves it to him. This is a very important setting for fulfilling certain property rights that fall under the human rights corps. As for the questions Mr. Komlenski has raised, there are administrative obstacles, and that is where I will set an example for you. More of the citizens of KIM or of our citizens living in KIM addressed everything that has been printed with the work of the institution in this part of Serbia as well as other cases. But there are cases where this cannot be done for the same administrative practical reasons, such as registration or pre-registration of weapons that physically must be brought with KIM here across the administrative border, which could cause citizens' problems. There are still a number of problems in that co-operation. When I say problems, problems mainly concern administrative and technical issues, not the will of the citizens' protection institutions to provide absolute protection to those persons, i.e. our fellow citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57793	Thank you, Mr. Pasalic. Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57794	I thank you for the second part of the answer. I wasn't talking about your proposal when it comes to the community of life with equal marriages. Personally, I will not support this initiative even if it comes here to the Assembly, for one simple reason, because it can disrupt many laws in the Republic of Serbia. Respecting all the arguments that you said about the property, but we have, simply, one segment that has at least been clearly defined so far, and that is the status of the extramarital community that is even in all respects the acquisition of property rights when it comes to, so to speak, liquid property acquired in the extramarital community, except in a situation where there is irrevocable marital interference. At this point, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is an irrevocable marital disturbance, as it is known that the definition of marriage is prescribed. If something like this were to be adopted, same-sex communities would be privileged compared to an extramarital community where partners are different sexes. Therefore, not to talk about other things where I really think that members of LGBT population absolutely need to be protected in every way, to provide them with all the opportunities that concern living, making progress, education, living like all of us here and having such a view of them and having, but favouring them in this way and introducing a small door in the perspective of future conclusion of marriage between both equal, i.e. creating the same sex marriages, the movement of the Socialists and I will personally never support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57795	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57796	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through this periodic report, we see that more than 9,000 citizens have been killed by the Guardian, while over three thousand complaints have been received in which citizens have filed complaints about violations of their rights. The basic problem and complaints are seen as being referred to illegality in the area of violation of the tax administration, public enforcement, inefficient judicial administration, where the Civilian Protector, as it stands in this report, is not competent to comment and control, where it is clear and said in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 138, but I would also like to refer to and comment on a statement by Mr Pasalic, which says that the Prague tiger is without teeth. I'll agree with that, since it makes recommendations, but there's no possibility of sanctions. In the second part, I cannot agree with you, where you said it did not come from Serbia, but from the EU. All that, Mr. Pasalic, comes from the EU is a tiger with huge teeth. You were addressed by the citizens by doubting the correctness and legality of the conduct of public perpetrators, as well as the dissatisfaction of the work of the Ministry of Justice with regard to the handling of complaints against the work of public perpetrators and the exercise of supervision of their work. Therefore, on 15 October 2018, the SRS submitted a proposal to abolish private perpetrators and to put the Implementation and Security Act out of force. So far, we have repeatedly asked for this proposal to be put on the agenda. Two months ago, the SRS launched a petition to eliminate public executioners and so far we have collected more than 100,000 signatures and with this initiative we want the SRS proposal to be found before the MPs, which would convince the assembly majority to return the authority of the perpetrators to the courts with a regulated law and to abolish the haughtiness and abuse of private perpetrators, who have been persecuting and such poor citizens of Serbia for many years. A quarter of these complaints refer to the right of a child and violence against children. Then we have a lot of examples of violence in schools, where peer violence is particularly pronounced. We also have objections to the violence against teachers, which we could not read here in your reports, and professors, which is very little to talk about and where teachers and teachers are often in an invisible position. How to act in such cases of harassment and demeaning by students, for however we do, they will be convicted to the public. Through this report, we see that the Citizens' Protector was involved in protecting the environment, where he only makes recommendations, a declarative pledge, and nothing more than that. As Serbia warmed up our garbage, the Citizens' Protector in this case is an institution that can't do anything but give opinions and recommendations, which loses the meaning of the protector. Another series of problems that we have seen and heard many times about and talked about in this high house is the implementation of public procurement and the selection of contractors of these works. The abuse of public procurement is most often carried out in cities and local self-governments where the Law on Public Procurement is applied in the hands of the mayor and the president of the municipality, where we have had examples of these abuses and there has been an arrest of the part of the management of certain municipalities due to the unlawful and non-intentional spending of the budget funds of local self-government. When it comes to the media, who is the Protector of the Citizens protecting? I would like to express the very incorrect and unprofessional behaviour of the Public Service with a national frequency, which the Citizens' Protector did not comment on through this report. The complaint concerns the presence of parliamentary parties at the Public Service and their representatives, and in particular the ignoring of representatives of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj by the Director of Public Service and their editors. I will remind fellow MPs that after 5 October, RTS editor Bojana Lekic said that while she is the head and responsibility editor of the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj would not have access to RTS. Here, since then, Serbian radicals have remained and survived, and I ask the Citizens' Protector where Bojana Lekic is. Amanet, then at RTS, is still conducting the same editorial policy of Mr Bujosevic and his associates. In the end, this report could and had to be more realistic for which this Protector is not only responsible, especially in the light of the facts of what it is and from whom he inherited it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57797	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Mr Zoran Pasalic, Protector of the Citizens, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57798	First and foremost, I would like to thank the MP for bringing out one topic that is very important here, which is very important for the position of the Republic of Serbia in general in the event or European integrations, which is an ecological sphere, which at the moment has a serious problem with achieving not only the right to a clean environment, but also in violation of those rights which the Citizens' Protector can set in a number of examples. What is also important is that it may be the most expensive chapter in Serbia's EU accession. That is what I point to you, honourable MPs as a very important issue to be promoted already now, and that the Citizens' Protector has paid special attention to these visits that you have brought outside of Belgrade, that is, in cities and not only cities, but also cities in Serbia, we have seen and we have a record of a number of environmental problems that we really need to solve in the most urgent time. I also thank the MP for bringing out the problems of public procurement, although unfortunately this does not fall within the scope of our jurisdiction, but rather the State Auditor and Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as the public service, which belongs to REM's competence. And we are prepared, as an institution and personnel and organisationally, to accept this job, in the event of an extension of the power of the Guardians in amendments and additions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, to say Colloquitically, that is, control of these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57799	Thank you, Mr. Pasalic. Right on line, MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57800	Mr Pasalic, it is clear that I think that the protection of both the fundamental nature and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is clear. I know that Chapter 27 is very important for the Republic of Serbia, and when it will be, that's the question, what they say, that Deacon hasn't died yet, when, we don't know. These, and that chapter and everything else that follows all this, but it is a fundamental problem to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you are moving, and you are probably moving in Serbia and you will see every step of garbage and garbage, where we will certainly have a problem if one day and this entry into the EU, which I believe is certainly not, but it is a problem for us to protect our citizens, our air, our water that we use in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, I say, once again, that problem, and for the chapter we'll leave an ad act. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be overprotected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57801	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57802	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Protector of the Citizens, has not been an easy task in front of you and not yet. When I compare this institution of the Citizens' Protectors with your predecessor and the fact that the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic, above all, dealt with politics from that place, that he was making artificial affairs, that he tweeted during his regular time, insulted the MPs, eventually ran for president of the state. A large number of citizens have also despised the previous Citizens' Protector and trust in this institution. You inherited a heavy burden. The Civilian Protector should work under the Constitution and the law and your powers as the Guardian of Citizens are very clearly defined. You, regardless of the great challenges you faced, have managed to restore the trust of a large number of citizens in your institution. This year, a few months ago, we had the opportunity to discuss and delve into the Committee on the Rights of the Child on the Work relating to the Rights of the Child, and I said then, and now I want to repeat, that the most important thing for me is that you as the new Citizens' Protector, with your team, have managed to depolitize this institution and restore its integrity. So you've managed to bring the Civil Protection Institution closer and closer to the citizens, to protect them more effectively from abuse, and that's what the data in this report and the data that you've provided here today. The practice of citizens' admissions proved to be good, as well as a campaign in cities, in Belgrade, and then in cities across Serbia. I have recently followed your visit to the city of Cačka, where you have brought out these environmental problems which were mentioned by the previous MP, and you have introduced another good practice to speak directly to the citizens of Serbia. These are all indications that you and your team are correcting your predecessor's mistakes and approaching the citizen protection institution. Certainly one of the priorities in your future work should be strengthening this institution. I also support the announced amendments and additions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which should, above all, strengthen the position of the Protector of Citizens and in some way strengthen the independence of this institution. Also, one of the important aspects of the Citizens' Protector should be co-ordination with citizens' protectors in local self-government. I think it's very important. It's not a small job. So 170 local self-government, with Kosovo and Metohija, is not easy to coordinate, but I think it's very important and that you understand the importance of that. Also, you face great challenges when it comes to the position of people with disabilities, people with autism, when it comes to gender equality, the position of Roma, the right child. We have a big problem in this area with child abuse, child abuse, child abuse, and the presence of children on the streets of begging cities. It's a huge problem, but not just a problem, unfortunately, our country. In my opinion, you should exchange experiences with your colleagues in the region and other countries, and you should take advantage of this connection and point to the problems that Serbs have in countries in the region. It is terrible that in Albania, in Slovenia there is not yet a recognised Serb national minority, that we have countries such as Bulgaria, that according to their constitution and law do not recognise national minorities at all, that we are not talking today about the position of Serbs in Montenegro, Serbs in Croatia. It's a huge problem. Take this opportunity and point to the rights of their countrymen that they have in Serbia and just tell them that we want reciprocity, nothing else, that those rights that Croats or other peoples, Bulgarians, in Serbia, have that in the countries in which they live. Finally, I want to take the opportunity to encourage you and to tell you that you simply need to be stronger and stronger when it comes to certain phenomena in society, that the voice of the Protector of citizens is heard more strongly when it comes to child abuse, including abuse of children of the president of the state, because in this way you are sending a clear message and encouraging and citizens of Serbia to report to you and to help them threaten their human rights. Here, these days, we have an unfeeling campaign at Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, just because he has publicly said that evidence is being collected against a politician, it is Dragan Gilas and an immeasurable campaign is going on immediately. Yes, Nebojsa Stefanovic is a public figure, like all of us, but we all have the right to hear the voice of the Guardian of Citizens. I will complete this exhibition with a finding on how much human rights remain at stake in Serbia, which Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic pointed out in his authorial text yesterday. I'll only quote it in one sentence. I believe it will be a good lesson for you in future work and for all of us. "There is a threshold of courtesy and elemental decency in an all-present campaign of demeaning anyone who thinks otherwise than those who have imagined to belong to the elite. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57803	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pasalic, the review of your work report for 2018 falls somehow in certain anniversarys. It'll be two years soon as you're in that place. Namely, you were elected July 27, 2017 and this year is 210 years since the first introduction of the Ombudsman in Sweden. That means there's a legal system somewhere around 100 states. Known as an ombdusman, and with us it was accepted and our Constitution said it was called the Protector of Citizens. We have also said about you personally what we had to say in the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Parliament when you were elected. What we're about to say now will mainly refer to the institution of the Protector of Citizens, and a little more to you. Otherwise, if we were wondering or if we were wondering, you wouldn't even be there. No, you, like Zoran Pasalic, would not be the Protector of the Citizens. You just pointed out that something is not in your jurisdiction. That's where you were right. We are in favour of making Serbian citizens the most of their rights through a system of state authorities, and we are people's representatives here and our primary goal is that which I'm not saying is not your goal either. I think that the EU has imposed these, various NGOs and various regulatory bodies that operate under suspicious circumstances and where the choice in a personal sense has been very harmful both to the Serbian state and to the Serbian citizens. I'm not talking about you right now so we know what this is about. So, Citizen Protector, Commissioner for Public Information, Protector of Citizens, and only in personal terms do you remember the two previous individuals who had, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, a renewed mandate and they were not without reason engaged in more politics, but what is called independence or some regulatory activity, and that is not an accident. They were designed as such and found themselves in that place. You've tried something different. Some have said that you are more concerned with some populist measures, by saying that your salary is rude compared to the average salary of 400 euros for Serbian citizens, and then some have taken advantage of the opportunity to say that it is more populist than your real desire to try to contribute something to the work of citizens. What else is the problem of the Civil Protection Institute? In addition to your best wishes, there are about 98 of you out there, counting the protection of citizens by sector, as you are already distributed, in that you do not have a concrete opportunity to solve a single problem. You don't have the opportunity to reach a conclusion as the lowest legal individual act, a solution. You, then, solve all problems with recommendations. Who do they commit to? Almost no one. You saw one situation, when you were criticised by the president of the National Assembly, your colleagues applauded, and when the head of the assembly group apologized to you, your colleagues also applauded. What's this about? It's a very simple question. That is how your performance is also the possibility of concrete citizens of Serbia benefiting from it. What can you do when a certain complaint arrives, when the complaint is dropped, because the right is not used? So, the individual did not respect what the Serbian state's legal system predicted, you will reject it. There may also be unfounded complaints. The object can also end in action, and it is a recommendation that we have already mentioned, which, by the way, does not have any power and can be rejected because you are not in charge. Your fifth option of action says you can inform yourself, then inform the complainant, as you say, what he can do and I like it somewhat. So you're going to teach the party that spoke to you how and how they can further exercise their rights. Where is your potential strength and authority? When I say yours, I mean the Protector of the Citizens. He is in this public work and is able to publicly step forward. In some ways, you have a certain role as well as the MPs. You have immunity that can take away the National Assembly or establish it in the event of what you publicly state and what you do, and it is estimated that you were right, then you will be protected by immunity. Since you have that kind of immunity and you exist, then you should be prepared to do your job, I'm not saying you didn't, but this is one suggestion to do your job in an extremely objective, professional and most professional way possible. Your term of office, according to the Constitution and the law, lasts five years. He doesn't have to last that long. Are you ready to last shorter, with today's work to finish? If so, then your role, regardless of the small legal force, can be serious and be of benefit to the citizens of Serbia and the essence is in it. If you are not ready, but must expire for five years, then Serbian citizens will not benefit much. Personally, what you do and how you do I think you'd be able to do that. When it comes to your role, above all, protecting the interests of the citizens. It is said there, and in law, which you have no right to control. This does not mean that you do not have the right to make public statements, or even criticisms at the expense of those you do not have the right to control, which is the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court and the other courts, as well as the prosecution, but you could make public opinions about it. In this report you stated that you gave an opinion, you say, on a proposal, and I suppose it was on a draft, but it doesn't matter that much now, on 25 concrete legislative proposals. The report does not show, and I wonder if any of your views were negative on any of the issues, and if so, what happened next? It means we know if there's a chance. Furthermore, the Law on the Protector of Citizens states that you have the opportunity to propose laws concerning the work of the Protector of Citizens and to launch an initiative for others. Is that a plan? There are a lot of problems in your work, and in order to be more efficient, and if the citizens of Serbia were to benefit the most, then the Law on the Protector of Citizens would have to change. You were a little late for this report. This is not essential now, because it says here, however, you wrote that the report was made on March 15th, but was adopted in the congregation service in 19, and the Law on the Protector of Citizens states that you are obliged to submit the latest report by the 15th of March of the current year for the previous year. It was Friday, when you were done, 15. Maybe it's technical, and it's not that important, but it could be important to this Protector of the Citizens. It says "Citizen's Protector," and it doesn't say "Citizens." This is not at all controversial from the SRS aspect, but many advocate this gender equality in this regard. I'm surprised no one pointed to that failure. We don't order. This is acceptable for us. For us, the MP is an MP, not an MP, the speaker of the assembly is the president of the assembly, not the president, etc. So that's just fine. There's one thing. You stand for this gender equality here and here, but in your service, you've violated it quite a bit. Look, now I have to intervene and point you to it. Of the 98 employees, 74 are women. Maybe it's nice, maybe it's good for you, but 24 men are below 1/3. Now there are some intensities that at least the less represented half, we usually think they're women, here's the best evidence in practice that they're less represented by half men. In some future period try to fix this. I didn't take that for evil. Of course, I'd rather be in such a service than somewhere where the situation is reversed. This little bit through all of this and making a joke, of course, is in a positive sense that I provoke you and your associates to do more for the citizens of Serbia in the next period. This journey through Serbia, to listen to citizens, their problems and to bring some, unfortunately, only recommendations. Now, I invite you not to be there in the Mačvan County, but not in places that have the status of the city, but in those that are very municipal places, I will not delegate any municipality, and I could also be in Love and Krupanj and Bogatic and Vladimirci, Kocelev, anyway. Now, let it be your choice, so that they may see that the representative of an institution has come to their place to hear their problems. You have specifically stated here how many complaints there have been in any area. A few things a man doesn't believe. The existence of children's and early marriages, that's what we're talking about. I think the Criminal Code will also be treated in a certain way, and even the Family Law will treat it in some future period. In 2018 a large number of employers, not all of them came to you, but a large number of employers denied the right, this is the least said, to deny birthrights, pregnant women and other people who had health problems. Then this particular data of yours that you have listed here, some of which I will touch, if there is no specific analysis of the joint services, we will not benefit much from this report. If it is known that the most complaints that you have received individually by sectors, were from local self-government, then the minister in charge of local self-government must in some way identify problems, so for certain actions and repressive measures of the enterprise, and for certain acts preventively, to help. If we always want our government at the local level to be what it is at the republican level, without seeing the potential and capacity of these local officials, then we'll be in trouble very quickly. It will not only be a local problem, it is primary and painful for them, it will become a problem and state communities, because from such places people will want to leave. Is Belgrade ready, it is one question that you should also work with your associates to receive all these dissatisfactions, and the consequence is a human factor. Insufficiently developed areas are not acceptable in themselves to foreign investors, and they are not acceptable to those who are born and live in those places, but look at them as soon as possible to leave them. The number of complaints you had in 2018, I guess that's what you got in writing, 3.338, 3,500 phone calls, received citizens to talk, that's probably that caravan and what comes to you when I say a caravan when you travel through Serbia, a total of 9.120. When it's shared with the number of employees in your, or at the Protector of Citizens, it's 93, whether it's listening, whether it's specifically solved problems and the like. But here, when you gave the number of cases in the 2018 report, in various areas where problems come from and everything that comes up to 50, maybe less, should be a red light, not just for the Citizens' Protector, but for the official authorities, the ones you cooperate with, to take certain measures. We now have a minister without portfolios in charge of population policy when these results are nowhere near who everyone wants. It's not worth it, we missed the earlier time, so this might be a good indicator in which areas to operate, not to say more strongly, because that's also the slogan of the party that suggested you, which doesn't mean that I'm bringing you into a relationship with membership in that party, but here you really should, first of all, have 160, 150 speeches, to intervene, to try to find some solutions to that kind of thing. It seems to me, when the Law on Local Self-Government was amended, when the possibility of local self-government was left with, therefore, the possibility of not obligation, you are a constitutional category, and there is now no way to say – we will not be the Protector of Citizens, but this leaves the possibility for local self-governments to introduce the Citizens' Protectors, but it is said – the Ombudsman. Why didn't you insist on having the same name? That shouldn't have caused any confusion with the citizens right now. It's not really important, but it should have been, if this is where the Guardian of Citizens is, when I say here I mean at the state level, that's how local self-government was supposed to be, that's what you were supposed to insist on. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted several initiatives to assess the constitutionality and legality of certain legal acts. In your report, I didn't see you do it once, and you could have done it and I wouldn't be able to explain it if you said it wasn't in your jurisdiction, because these general legal acts produce concrete consequences for the citizens of Serbia, and once again, let's remind ourselves, your primary goal is to protect the citizens of Serbia above all and control other public functions. There's one thing where you started the initiative, I'm familiar with, maybe more. This is a good opportunity for you to tell me if anyone's done anything about it. The Association of users of apartments in private property may have contacted you in 2018. You did an initiative and I assume you sent it to the Department of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure. That's what you did on February 14, 2019, the number of your 4575 initiative, if there's any answer, if there's any movement, I don't think you have the right information, there's no association either. You may have been able to reach these users through Infostan, sometimes some 10,000 years ago, and now it is estimated that about four thousand users are the most in Belgrade, there is something in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, Subotica, Kralje and Kruševec. That's what this is all about, dear colleagues, about persons who, by no law, have so far been unable to acquire housing rights and come into a situation where they can buy these apartments. The largest number of users of these apartments, somewhere calling them privileged tenants, has nothing to do with that term. The largest number of those, from pre-war rich men, greeners, is now not to make any qualifications, take those apartments, so they're given to use, and something due to the bombing, arson in Belgrade itself, some of the faces got those apartments. The number was shrinking, because some had no descendants, no heirs, and that's why I'm saying that maybe it's somewhere now and about four thousand. They enjoyed what kind of privilege until 1 January 2019 when the 2016 Law on housing and maintenance of residential buildings did not say that since 1 January 2019, the lease will be brought to an estimated value, times the corrective factor 00245, and in practice, those who have so far paid the rent of 15 thousand, in some subsequent period should be around 40,000. Did you, apart from this initiative that you sent to the Department of Civil Engineering, ask further questions, have any information as far as it came, what are you planning to do next? Since it is not a small number of users of these apartments, around 12, perhaps even 15 members of the Housing Act are committed to this category and the way it will be resolved in some future period, so this should be done here, as the state has also committed itself to solving the problems of these users by 2021, by 50% to address these housing problems being secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and 50% from the budget of the units of local self-government. It is fortunate that it is big cities or relatively large cities, so perhaps that problem will be solved in that way. Imagine if it were in Medvedja, in Crno Trava, in some other places, if I didn't list them, if we had such apartment users, I don't think their problem could ever be solved, because local self-government couldn't single out those funds. Why are we in general, I'm gonna end up with this against these regulatory bodies? Because we want to develop the system and that everyone for their responsibility, i.e. for their actions or inaction, bears responsibility, until in our judicial system the judge is responsible for knowingly and deliberately, knowingly and deliberately, I repeat, has such judgments, and has answered, and not that compensation for whose responsibility the judge is solely guilty of suffering. Then he'll do it like that and act like one. So, we want the Constitution of the envisaged institutes and institutions to develop state bodies and make them as responsible as possible, so that citizens know who they're talking to and who they can address in an efficient and very simple and cheapest way to be compensated. Serbian citizens deserve much more help and protection than they have ever had before, including the Citizens' Protector whose report could be seen as detailed and comprehensive. I don't want to talk about it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57805	Thank you. The word is Mr. Pasalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57806	As far as the laws are concerned, so to speak, there were 25 of them in the reporting period. As for the legal initiatives, there were five and two were not adopted. We have started with the practice of calling on an authorised promoter always before we give a final opinion on the consultations and so far it has proved to be correct on their part, means that they respond to us and that in a very specific, collegiate, constructive and professional discussion we tell them what we consider not to be covered by these legal solutions or not well solved. As regards the control of companies in private property, institutions, as you all know, the Protector of Citizens has no authority, which is not a mark of other ombudsmans or protectors of citizens or protectors of citizens or ombudsmans in other countries, where their powers are extended, or have powers in one part of private-owned business entities. As for the assessment of constitutionality, they were gone this year. As far as protected, privileged tenants are concerned, according to the record of Infostan in Belgrade, there are 3,500 of them, and they were talking to us individually, which over that time I think was the only one, and now I think there are two associations. On the basis of what we have received from them as information, we have sent an opinion to the Ministry of Construction and the answer to that opinion we have received before, I couldn't exactly tell you, but about ten days ago, in which there is agreement on what we have stated in this, not at all, the other issues that are controversial we will most likely clarify in mutual communication. But the bottom line is that until that date you mentioned, in 2021, when local self-government is obliged to solve the problem of protected tenants, we have always insisted that theirs, I will call the collokual, rents should not be increased, and if they are increased, that this must be solved at the level of local self-government, probably by a list, or by choosing subsidies for certain categories. As for other cities in the Republic of Serbia, we will get the data in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57807	In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Sreto Peric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57808	Mr. Pasalić, I suppose it's quite clear to you now why the SRS has this attitude not only towards the Citizens' Protector, but also to other regulatory bodies, I can't tell the parastates, far from it, because at least you're not, these aren't the agencies that came in after 2000 like mushrooms after the rain, but it's little power and it's a good statement when you say it's like a lion without teeth or it doesn't even matter now, you're absolutely right. That is why we do not consider the existence of the Protector serious and necessary, but we support, when there is already, the efforts and the desire to do something in the interests of the citizens and you have tried these here, specifically to answer, protected or privileged residents to give an answer. But where was he, here, for the first time I've mentioned him, he's the past, your predecessor, chosen twice, and that law was passed in 2016? The provision of a member of the 140th Law was then as clear, as it is today, where it is said how and how compensation and the right of original owners will be paid so that they can visit these apartments at least twice a year. It is well known and the Constitution has said that the right to an apartment is injureable and that only in certain cases provided for by law can it be violated. So, by the number of people who have these problems, we agreed, and that's about what we had assumptions or knowledge of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57809	Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57810	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Pasalic and his associates, we are considering your report today with great pleasure, because your predecessor has ruined your current function and I hope you will light your cheek, we have chosen you and I am sure you have great opportunities, and this man has completely devastated it. The Republic of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, has great respect for independent state bodies. You're here to criticize us, we're just showing you a great degree of democracy. You initially tried to bring an independent state body institution closer to citizens who, thanks to Sasa Jankovic, had lost their trust in the Citizens' Protector. I'll talk about him later, because there's so much shit in his work and so much embezzlement, I have to talk about it. I wish you guys a lot of happiness, because you're going to need a lot of effort, but you're getting off to a good start, and I have to point that out. First of all, the way you started, it's to move the Belgrade focus to other cities, which is very important. That's how we restore citizens' trust. Then, you have formed a network of ombudsmans, which is very important for the region, you will recognize much faster problems, especially as regards migrants, migrant checkpoints and others. In 2012, by the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party in power, the government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed done a lot of good work for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, thanks, among other things, to your recommendations. First of all, the National Employment Action Plan for 2018 provides for programmes and measures of active employment policy, among other things, in accordance with the Citizens' Protector, your recommendations. Then, by adopting the Law on financial support for the family with children in 2017, a significant shift was made in the exercise of rights based on pregnancy, birth and child care. I was thrilled by that law. We only remember in 2017 and the first child stimulant, we have one-time aid of 100,000 dinars, for the second-year-old on a two-year-old basis we allocate 12,000 dinars per month, for the third child, the stimulant goes for 10 years, at a monthly level of 12,000 dinars, and for the fourth child for ten years at the monthly level, there are 18 thousand dinars. So that's what the responsible government does, and I am proud to be a member of the part, which I am primarily a member of the Serbian Progressive Party. Also, the Law on Free Legal Assistance was passed, which is extremely important. There was no free legal aid in all municipalities. I live in the municipality of Vozdovac, where there was free legal aid, but now it's an obligation and it's very good. The 2018-2019 Action Plan for the implementation of the MUP Development Strategy for the period 2018-2023, in line with the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors, provides for activities to strengthen the fight against domestic violence and partner relations, which is extremely important. You've done your job well and you're restoring citizens' trust, and I'm going to read now what the internet portal Embargo said about your predecessor - Bill, it hasn't happened again. In March 2011, Sasa Jankovic bought a new luxury jeep for "Subaru Forester" by the citizens' protector's office. According to the website, only a few months later, his wife Slavica also buys from the same house a new jeep, the same model, two jeeps. Sasa Jankovic brutally misused his function and the power he has so widely scattered in every performance and operation. No one then wondered why he bought this jeep for his own purposes about the cost of the state? In the post-mandation period in Serbia, in July 2012, Jankovic stopped writing brochures and bureaucratic guidelines, and under the protection of human rights began to become more actively involved in day-to-day political events. We all remember that. Its activities are particularly noteworthy after the May floods, the catastrophic floods in 2014, when the general astonishment of government and ordinary citizens in Serbia voiced concern over the police detentions of those who have spread panic during the emergency situation and thus further endangered the lives of people in endangered areas. Unremembered. Claiming that there was no cause for panic and the spread of false news, Jankovic simply ignored messages through social networks about hundreds of corpses swimming Obrenovac, burning dead in high furnaces in Lazarovac, SMS messages on poisoned drinking water in Belgrade, upcoming power restrictions, on major congestion and supply of basic life supplies. The rumours caused an unrecorded panic among Belgrade's citizens, which was not seen even during the 1999 bombing. Shame on that man. Then, the initial conflict with power during the flood, Jankovic later used it to fully politicise his function, we all know that he was running for president from an independent state authority, so his party failed, and he fell apart as a man a long time ago, so I guess he moved out, they say. I wish him good luck, just so he never comes back here again. Which is why I will not miss a single chance for my own self-promotion and profiling as the future leader of the opposition's pro-urban section - so Jankovic's political character will be expressed in almost all cases where he took advantage of the opportunity to react as Civilian Protector: in an investigation into the incident in which Gendarmeria's members beat up Andrej Vukic, the born brother of the then prime minister and today's Serbian President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, through the helicopter's fall, supporting positions on alleged media censorship, until the case of destruction in Savala, where Jankovic finally forged his presidential candidacy. For citizens, there is nothing worse than that Serbia is as it is, says Mr. Jankovic, broken-down institutions, without the rule of law and social justice, asphyxiated media, non-transparent and corrupt, all he says is that who buys cars, beats people, spreads false news, enters the European Union, imagine, please, it would be such an easy bite to anyone who would take advantage of us economically and in any other way, the citizens would have nothing of it, and those countries that would help us. What a pathetic thing, if we didn't know him, I'd cry. There's a lot about him, I don't want to keep this tall home any longer. It's a shame what he did. I'm sure, and he's already started doing well Mr. Pasalic, and I wish him good luck. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57811	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57812	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I will address the Citizens' Protector later, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I will make my contribution to this constructive debate, and I must say in the beginning, probably you, the Honorable Chairman, remember it better than I do, I am surprised that some of my colleagues who have been a graduate and voted that the Citizens' Protector exists under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are now contesting the existence of the Citizens' Protector, therefore, for the sake of Serbia's citizens to know that the Citizens' Protector is a constitutional category. Also, the Constitution and the laws and other regulations lay down the powers of the Guardian of Citizens. I remember when we elected the Citizens' Protector, Mr Pasalić here in July 2017, in this way we formally interrupted the constant abuses of that function by the former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic. Today we have an annual report on the agenda for 2018 showing us on the one hand what independence in the work means, and on the other hand how the provisions of the laws and other regulations can be respected in the performance of that function. The citizen's protector is here to protect the right of all citizens, not as in the period before Mr Pasalic to be committed to certain politically colored groups, to build his political career, because it is actually a behavior that is contrary to the law. When the function of the Protector of Citizens is politicised, when the situation arises that the Citizens' Protector is running for president of the state, his work as Protector of Citizens is being questioned. So Sasa Jankovic lost the citizens' trust, and in this sense there was no success with his candidacy for president because it was obvious that he was, through his state function, propagating his policy. He even used the official website as a personal promotion, and we all remember he was hiding behind those who signed the so-called. The appeal table for his candidacy. You remember, for example, that Dragan Sutanovac was one of those who supported his candidacy. So much for taking care of the citizens. Failure in the election wasn't the only defeat he had. Citizens showed what they think of the Citizens' Protector, at which point his rating fell, and then he again gave himself the right to abuse his post to regain his rating and start participating in protests that soon failed. The Free Citizens movement has begun to abandon its supporters as well. I listed all of this to see how one, though, failed political career, was built by abuse of function and abuse of position. Does the Citizens' Protector need special vehicle tags, special stickers that mean the police can't stop the vehicle? Is this helping him to do his job or something that was being transported, which the police should not see in control, and how did it benefit the citizens? These are all the questions citizens have been asking themselves. This example reminds me that this institution must not be used to meet personal needs and obtain privileges. Unlike the period during which the Citizens' Protector was Sasa Jankovic, now that Mr Pasalic has been there, the accent has been put in contact with the citizens. As an extremely positive assessment of the visits of the Citizens' Protectors and his associates to cities and municipalities throughout Serbia, because in this way they can see problems and disadvantages in the field if they are present. We could also see in the media that a special space had been given activities, relating to the protection of women and children from domestic violence, gender equality, inclusive education of children and young people and protection of workers' rights. As far as gender equality is concerned, we here on page 32 of this exhaustive report can see that the largest number of complaints received has been rejected because they are not met with the legal requirements for handling them. Appeals are dismissed because of malpractice, untimely, prematureness, anonymity or disorder. I read this because I believe that the citizens of Serbia who are in a situation to file a complaint, relating to gender equality violations, know what the Citizens' Protector is doing then, and that is, in fact, what is positive in this whole story, which is providing advisoryly – legal assistance, and then when the complaint is dropped because of malpractice or prematureity. I would also like to commend it when it comes to the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of the elderly, where the Citizens' Protector in the Report says that in these cases, the prosecutor points to a competent authority or advises him on the legal means available. So these are really the things that the Citizens' Protector needs to deal with. I would ask you, Mr. Pasalic, if there is any, I may not have seen it in the report, is there any possibility that the Citizens' Protector may be working with some state bodies, institutions or some local institutions? I specifically believe that my question concerns the Niš City Assembly, which has the Committee on Gender Equality, which has certain data and certain information, so I think it might be good to also connect to the local community, right through the local self-government authorities that can provide you with certain data. This report is truly extensive and comprehensive, this report is really detailed. I will vote for the adoption of this report, because I want your quality work to continue, too, co-operation with the government, with the National Assembly, with other state bodies and institutions, because we are ultimately on the same task, which is a better life for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57813	Just ask for a word, Mr. Pasalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57814	Citizens' co-operation with local self-government takes place through these contacts that take place on our departures or visits to towns around Serbia. What we've been initiating all along with local self-government, which means with both municipal authorities and social work centres, is the direction that you've brought up as one of the problems that we think is a burning problem and where the Citizens' Protector has repeatedly addressed himself publicly, which is violence against women, and that's what really results from that, which is a large number of women who have been killed in the last period. What we are insisting and what we will always insist on, which is to prevent violence and consequences, which are as much as we can in our power to influence, which is to establish close co-operation at the site between institutions dealing with this problem, which are, there are four in Serbia, but they have their departments in other cities, which are institutions for judicial medicine that can undisputedly determine between the action and the consequences. So, in court proceedings, these material evidence would be much tighter and more secure, unquestionable. What we have been praying, and we are praying and now in concrete talks in Belgrade, which is that this co-operation would imply: first – the training of all those who meet for victims of violence to understand better both the action and the consequences and the circumstances under which it happens; then - the training of all those who might indirectly have to do with this relationship; and finally – the protection of victims of violence through these very professional judicial and medical examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57815	Right on line, colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57816	Just for a little while. Mr. Pasalic, I thank you for your reply. The only thing I have left is for you to come to Nis and try to solve some problems through direct contact with both local self-government and citizens, because the problems that are being solved in local communities must be solved in those local communities where problems actually arise. Good thing you said about networking institutions. Practically, representatives of all institutions must be networked so that one problem can be viewed in a comprehensive way. As far as training goes, I agree, too. Here, I'm telling you that in the local self-government unit, in the city of Nis, you can have a good partner to conduct training and to educate all employees who will be very happy to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57817	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57818	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Citizens Protector, Mr. Pasalic, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a report on the work of the Citizens' Protector for 2018. First of all, I must point out that the issue of human rights and freedoms is covered by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act, as well as by other legal regulations stemming from the Constitution, but of course by all the international documents that the Republic of Serbia has ratified and which have become an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I have to point out that your 2018 report is comprehensive, that it is detailed, that it describes the situation in each individual area that you have analysed, that it describes the difficulties that citizens face and that it contains recommendations and proposals to eliminate difficulties, which you viewed as realistically justified in talking to citizens or in delivering their complaints. What I particularly want to point out is that you, Mr. Pasalic, have found a collapsed system of Protectors of citizens, because Citizen Protector Sasa Jankovic, who has been a full 10 years protector of Serbian citizens, has not been their protector, but promoter of his own policy and is against the law. From the seat of the Citizens' Protector, he formed a party and ended up running for President of the Republic. In this political fantasy, of course, there was the collapse of his policy, and those he left at the head of his policy after him, certainly the people my colleague, Mr. Marko Atlagic, knows best, and I would only say that these are people who are often out of touch with their own brains. Namely, what do I mean? Sasa Jankovic, former Protector of Citizens, did not worry about protecting the rights of those most vulnerable and vulnerable, which is in line with the law of the protection of citizens' rights, because to protect the rights of the most vulnerable and vulnerable, poor citizens of Belgrade would not be allowed to leave a debt of 120m in the name of unpaid one-time money aid for Belgrade's poorest citizens at the time of the government of Dragan Gilas. Also, he would not allow Dragan Gilas, during the exercise of power in Belgrade, to leave debt to pregnant women and maternity families who should again be subject to the protection of the 388m-dollar Citizens' Protectors. Also, the Citizen's Protector had to react urgently to the robbery of Pajtic and the abduction of 150 million of children distracted in development through, to God's construction of the Hetherland Castle, the castle was never built, the money went away, who knows where, most likely, in private pockets, and the place around Hetherland remained in the weeds, an ordinary ruins. Also, Mr. Sasa Jankovic and how he should have responded when Dragan Djilas built the facility for the purposes of "Big Brother" and for obtaining his own profit, and the contract literally indicated that the facility was of general interest and was intended for the living room of children. So much for the former Citizens' Protector whose political party is now mired in the mud of its own evil and hatred for everything advanced in the Republic of Serbia. As for your report, I will look back on several aspects, except for the visibility you have achieved, and that visibility you have achieved through these days of open doors in the City of Belgrade, but what I want to praise is your going inside and talking to citizens who have problems dealing with procedures before public authorities. For SNS, our President Alexander Vukic, the most important thing is for public administration to be an efficient service for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, your going inland and talking to citizens, eyes to eye, just as our President Alexander Vukic does every day, I find invaluable importance for your further work. I also commend the new systematization and internal organisation of jobs, especially the formation of this emergency department. Why do I want to commend the opening of this department? Because this department is just open with the aim of urgent, timely, without delay, in principle immediately and now, responding to all those complaints concerning child protection, protection of persons with disabilities, protection of the elderly, because they are persons who are recognised as particularly vulnerable groups. I commend the department's division and expansion of the department's capacity for the national torture prevention mechanism. I must say that as a member of the Assembly Committee for Supervisory over the work of the institutions in which prison sentences are being maintained, I have been on a tour of the Niš prison, and indeed, with fellow MPs, I have convinced myself that the conditions of life and work of prisoners, as well as the conditions of staff working and how they have been promoted from the aspect of housing, from the aspect of nutrition, from the aspect of health care, from the aspect of psychosocial support, from the aspect of employment, both within the circle of the prison itself, and those prisoners who support the punishment so-called. A half-opened ward can be employed for a certain number of hours outside the prison. Also, thanks to the measures of financial consolidation and the measures he had taken since he was Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, a brand-new prison was built in Pancheva, according to the latest world standards, as well as accessibility, and the lives of convicts, as well as the work of employees. I must point out that you have recognised and praised the acquisition of new knowledge, skills, the continued education of employees in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, which is very important, because pathology, and in general inmates. Essentially, it is changing year after year and it is certainly necessary that those who deal with the work of prisoners also have additional knowledge and skills, and all again in the interest of prisoners where full resociation will be made possible, from this aspect is significant. Also, I would like to commend some of your suggestions to some of the ministries, and above all, I am referring to the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Labour respected these proposals, the government proposed to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly adopted amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, especially because many citizens had difficulties with those temporary solutions made to infinity. Now that's a different rule of law. I must point out that the National Assembly, again you have been involved, or consulted by the Ministry of Labour, adopted amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act concerning the accounting of those years of insurance training, which are those years that people couldn't find, which they used to work on KIM, so they couldn't be connected that year, etc. All in all, you're on your way. I wish you successful work, that you have as little complaints as possible about the work of the public authorities and the state administration, and that the public administration in accessing citizens has an adequate, fast and efficient approach, because, ultimately, there is a public administration for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57819	The word has a colleague, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57820	I thank you for giving me the opportunity to say something about a general assessment, respect for citizens' rights in 2018, as shown in the Citizens' Protector's Report. First of all, there has been no transmission of this part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a long time. I thank all the MPs who participate in the work, regardless of this fact, we show that we are not here for television to broadcast our discussions, but we are essentially interested in discussing such an important document as your report for the past year. Short notices on two subjects. One is certainly part of a few sentences dedicated to gender equality in our country. I'm convinced, perhaps you'll deny me, there may be somewhere in this overall report a little more extensive part of the state of gender equality in Serbia, given that you wrote about 2018, I think we deserve a little more attention. I noticed a few remarks that I don't know how they got here. You're saying there's a special report on women's representation at decision-making sites, positions, activities and so on, local mechanisms. I can agree with you that there aren't enough of us, I mean women who deal in politics, given our quality, in the right places at local level. I think only a few women represent local self-government at the mayor's place or the president of the municipality, but we can't say that the causes of this condition were recognized by the Protector because we don't have a comprehensive law on gender equality. It is simply not true, because the Republic of Serbia has a Law on Gender Equality which is in force and which, too, the authorities of our country are implementing in all areas as defined by the legal norm. Then you go on - but there is a lack of an existing Law on Gender Equality. You have entered into some disagreement in that sentence - do we have or do we not have a birth equality law? Well, then for the third time you repeat that it is necessary to adopt the Law on Gender Equality, and the concern that we did not bring it, the UN Human Rights Committee said. So something absolutely unclear to the ordinary citizen of this state in a few sentences. Do we have a law on gender equality? We act on it, as we do in all laws, until something new is passed or amended and the law is added. It can't be written that we don't have a law on gender equality. If we communicate with different committees and different international organisations so easily, then of course they'll write that they're very concerned about the fact that we don't have legal regulations that regulate this matter. Women in this country are equal, the law is respected. As far as I know, the competent Ministry of Labour, Boring, Social Affairs and Employment has completed a public debate on the draft law on gender equality, a new one, inspired by the old ones, with some new, more modern solutions, which we will take a step forward not only in terms of the degree of representation of the less represented gender in the relevant positions, and not only in politics, but also in some other places, and is now waiting, as we have to agree our proposals for legislation with the EU and their legislation. As far as I understand the Minister in charge, we are waiting for their response to join the Government by adopting the bill, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may also through the public hearing of such text as I assume we will receive in the autumn, to discuss both in public hearing here and in the MPs and in the civil sector, and all of them interested. And the Union of Employers was interested and participated in the adoption of the Bill and many others. It's not such an easy-to-know thing, to rewrite solutions from some other countries and then, because it's popular to keep saying it over and over again, let's say -- here, we don't have a law on gender equality, the UN Human Rights Committee is very concerned. This is a false fact. It's a false fact because parliament can't agree with that if we voted here a while ago not in this meeting. We're a serious state, you can't say everything's only true from the moment we started representing the ruling majority, but we have the law. Don't, please, let's not read any flat-rate readings. We have the law and this is an absolutely incorrect fact. I'm telling you what a legal situation is now -- there's a bill of law, a public debate concluded in all major cities. The public debate began here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure we'll have one even better, more modern law than we have now. Society has to be ready for that. Not only must the citizens of Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis be prepared, but every local community, every firm, every administrative, supervisory board and state to enforce the law. It's not as easy a job as we imagine it is. Many countries do not have such big steps in this area as we plan to bring. Please, next time, don't write your flat-rate notes here and ask you a little more content to question gender equality when it comes to dealing with it, I'll only talk about women, although gender equality doesn't mean just being a woman, it can be in another direction a question of endangering gender equality, politics and journalism. I don't think that's enough of what really happened in our country in 2018 and who was who really threatened women who were involved in politics and journalists. Here in this part of freedom of expression, I can relate to that in my discussion. Again something indicative, as if more had been overcome by reports from different news organizations than what you really saw. I am convinced that you have faced the fact that even the MPs of this Parliament have been physically endangered journalists. It is a matter of Bosko Obradovic and his MPs and members of the Dveri party, where they physically attacked journalist Pinka, Mrs Gordana Zelelac, where they physically attacked Pinka Maru Dragovic, where they may not have physically attacked me, will disassociate me, but have been belittled, harassed, done a lynch over her, and some time it is an even more drastic attack that a woman who is involved in responsible work can experience, I am saying from my experience, journalist Studio B, Mrs Barbara Živić. Not getting into her experience or inexperience as a journalist, we were all young, we were all starting our job and none of us were brilliant to be immediately at the level of one Oriana Falac or Mira Adanja Polak, but this young woman journalist had experienced, I had never met her in my life, I had no idea at all that there was Mrs. Lifeic, but I felt terriblely affected by the link of media that she had experienced from some of her colleagues who thought they were only right, the only thing that counts is their way of thinking, what the lynch they experienced from politicians in this country, who want to say to themselves that they represent some kind of civil Serbia, which they don't, because there are no divisions in this country at all what they would like to exist. They also experienced a lynch from Dveri group MPs from Sergey Trifunovic, he is the president of the Free Citizens Movement, which threatens the freedom of one of the state's citizens. So this really isn't recorded. Now, I'm unlikely to have those who like to make cabbage out of my speeches, so in their media reports, they cut my sentences like this, maybe even surprise me, yes, I'm going to stop at the defense of Minje Miletic, journalist television N1. I don't know if anyone listened with attention the other day and watched an interview with Sergei Trifunovic again. Now I'm making him a commercial, but that's not the problem. I wish that one day I could take direct action on various topics, which really in that interview, regardless of how I share the same way of thinking, or political discourse with Mrs Miletic, but he was humiliatingly insulting to her as a journalist. His answers, his questions, his communication with her was below the level of a politician who advocates civil values in this country and who advocates gender equality. Not to say what kind of relationship Mr. Trifunovic has shown towards women who are involved in politics and who are taking important positions. You say here - we don't have the law. Well, imagine how Sergei Trifunovic would react if he had to enforce a legal provision that 40% of women must be on his list and that 40% of women must then, behold, don't God, but if someone decides that one day Sergei Trifunovic is leading this country, that 40% of women perform important functions in the state, in journalism, in culture. He'd get a nervous breakdown. He would not know how much more of an insult to refer to women already involved in politics and to prevent such a law from being passed. You didn't look back on that. I have not heard that you have defended women who are involved in politics, that you have reacted when we have been physically attacked here, I think personally of me and when I have been insulted, humiliated, not only by MPs, by extraparliamental parties, such as the one led by Sergei Trifunovic, but a special consideration and you would have to pay attention to the media what the media says about women who are involved in politics. At best, they describe what we look like and how we dress, which is extremely humiliating, indeed. I can't wait to see the articles about what Djordje Vukadinovic is wearing, for example, and where the hairdresser goes and whether it's hairstyled in Belgrade or Novi Sad and whether he's in the right state of health. If you don't answer that silly, private, personal question, whether you're okay or not, then someone is wrong in your next issue that Gjorge Vukadinovic is in a different state, for example. Now, that's how the media communicates with women today. Well, the best way to explain how the media, certain, not everyone, is high respect for the journalistic profession, is to deal with us that we deal with politics and we have something to say. We may not have a nice head or a nice haircut, but we have a great brain and it seems to annoy certain politicians, such as Sergei Trifunović, Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and that small team from the neighborhood, and it annoys certain journalists. When you disagree with them, then they won't argue with you whether you're right, whether you're smart, whether you're capable of performing a certain function, important. Then they go on principle to demean you, to enter into your private life, to invent stories, to invent partners, lovers, whether you are healthy, unhealthy, pregnant, not pregnant. It's a level that I actually need to speak openly about here in Parliament. Marijan Risticevic, he has been tried repeatedly by media to destroy. They're just making him an even bigger commercial. That's not the problem. But they never talked about Marijan Risticevic whether any of his associates were his girlfriend, not his girlfriend, partner, not his partner. That's what politicians do when it comes to women. It's done regularly. It's done regularly, and we're looking for some laws. It's okay, the laws, and we'll bring a new one after that we'll bring in even more modern ones. We have to change our minds with your help. We're changing our minds. You don't know how to talk to me like a politician, so don't make things up from my private life. I'll never deny them, no matter what nonsense, insults and nonsense I've read about myself, it's below my level to deny any fiction, because then I'm breaking into the way I communicate with them. As for freedom of expression, I expected you to react. I also mentioned that yesterday when we discussed the previous report, the case of journalist Nebojko Krstic. I don't know what to say. He's not a journalist anymore. He's a media presence. He was once an adviser to the country's president, Mr. Boris Tadic. As far as I'm concerned, he's still a member of the DS, not even Gilas threw him out yet. He's probably planning on kicking him out. But that's not my problem. I don't have to defend and represent here the attitudes of just the people I agree with. If I'm talking about protecting citizens in general, it's my duty to get out of it. Why don't I say that Mina Miletic, in my opinion, is humiliated in that interview, on one of those macho sides, is a man's side? If someone were to tell you, you'd have to read it. To which man would a journalist talker Sergei Trifunovic say – you have somewhere to read, when he asks you something, or to talk about her private life? It happened in the interview, no one reacted, believe me, no one reacted. If someone from SNS had treated journalists like this, we'd be hanging out. As the people say, Pedro would hang. Now, that's it. We would hang here, believe me, it would be such a hack on us, on the male part of our fellow MPs and politicians. This is how it all went like that because it's Sergei Trifunovic. Oh, nothing's wrong. Nothing's wrong. If we're putting women at risk, then we're endangering them comprehensively, not whether or not the talker is nice or not. To return to Nebojša Krstic. Today I was informed in the cabinet that even his fifth warrant was lifted on these social networks, on Twitter. Sometimes I follow, sometimes I don't follow what he writes, but as far as I know Mr. Krstic, and I've known him since I was ten, eleven years old, in private. I know him through politics. Before there was no taboo to socialize and know people who disagree politically. Now it's some new fashion that came from those lines. But I know him in private. I've never heard of him as some kind of ossion, a simple man, that he spread some kind of hatred over social networks, that he threatened someone with his freedom of expression on these social networks. It's probably also the point of expressing your own thought, your own attitude. How is it possible that a certain group of people he has been harassed and irritated by his attitudes for the fifth time has abolished his warrant with his lies? I don't know what they're writing to or who they're writing to, how they're doing it, but there's a journalist who's very loud and boasting that she's managed to stop the freedom of speech of Heavenly Krstic on Twitter community. She managed to take his warrant off the fifth time. Isn't that a threat to freedom of expression? You know who I'm talking about, Nebojsa Krstic, an analyst, active in the media, former country president Boris Tadic, famous musician. He used to be very desirable. As he began to criticise certain political moves by opposition members, including one of the NGOs, so the man was simply kicked out of the media. We can agree that these social media, networks have become very influential and part of the overall media picture. Today, the world's most famous politicians view their views precisely through social and modern communication methods, both domestic in their countries, and thus communicate with the media in their countries. So I'm convinced that for the sake of freedom of expression in our country, you should also deal with the case of lifting a warrant. If there are no violations of those rules, I don't know the pornographic content, that you threaten someone, the hate speech and how it is already going and, of course, to deal with this physical threat and heifer, harassment and Gordana Zelec and Barbara Živić and Mare Dragovic. I am for you to also review the interview between Minje Miletic and to see how one politician is so-called politician. citizen orientations are talking to a journalist on television who is very politically favored and what the interview looked like and his attitude towards a woman who deals with journalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57822	First of all, I would like to thank the president of the National Assembly for the exhaustive exposure to women's positions in Serbia, especially in situations where abuse or media power or abuse of functions offends them in a specific way and that insults addressed to women go in one connotation, and men in another connotation, i.e. that the insults addressed to women are far more offensive from all aspects and that what is really worrying. That's why we need a law on gender equality, to answer a question that we don't have right now. We have the Law on Gender Equality. The law on gender equality is in the works. What's the difference? To establish that distinction immediately necessary. The Law on Gender Equality does not fully regulate this issue, but these topics are also contained in other laws, while the Law on Gender Equality would comprehensively regulate this issue. Simply put, it is when you have criminal provisions in some laws, in one of the most, but it is in other laws, and one is when you have codified in one law, such as the Code of Criminal Law, or it is the easiest thing for me to compare. We are in constant contact with the Ministry of Labour, because this topic is of great interest to us. When we talk about women's representation, we don't just think about women who have higher education, who have secondary education, who may have primary education, but also those who don't have any education or have primary education, because they weren't in a situation to get education. In particular on the ground, a colleague is here with me, Tanja Rakic, we have made sure multiple times that women who are not really, not according to our assessment, because we are really neither professional nor property to evaluate it, but who really show extraordinary intelligence and intelligence in daily communication, have no right to achieve their education and to realize what they would say later participate in society in a way that would really suit that. So we're talking about this population. We're looking at an all-inclusive population. As for my concrete advertising on the attack on women, both politicians and journalists, there were more. In particular, on Ljubica Gojgic's show, I listed ten names of the most dramatic attack and insult, both the politician's wife and the journalist's wife. With all due respect to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, yours, and what I want to say about Mr Nebojsa Krstic or the attack on journalists, journalists, no matter how qualified the media they work in - written, electronic, from one or another political aspect... At the beginning of my term, I advertised almost every day and realized that such a way of addressing was not the most pathetic and initiated something that I would definitely say, but I certainly do, and I end up coming to an end, so if I'm rejected from those who were offered it, I'm also going to have to figure it out. What's this about? Mostly those attacks that involve criminal attacks, the most common crimes, are registered, and that is what appears in the media, which is more insistent. Others can be the subject of any speculation, and it refers to any type of pressure, from verbal to economic, which falls to journalists the hardest. For this reason, the citizens' protection institutions are under way, and I have experienced exceptional criticism in the part of the public that I want something new, something that already exists, but in a conversation with journalists' associations, no matter who represents them and who is in them, that there must be a clear platform of registration of all the pressures, including attacks already registered by the police, prosecutors and courts. Any pressure must be defined through the wording of this platform in order to avoid confusion and to avoid interpretation of how, excuse the expression, honourable MPs, whoever they want and how it suits them at that time. It's the only possible route. It's the only credible way to guarantee safety. I can tell you here for hours about the safety of journalists. I can tell you for hours about the economic position of journalists. I can tell you for hours about censorship, self-censorship amongst them, but that would be the subject of a perhaps special report, which, I really apologize, the Citizens' Protector did not as a special report to this respected home, which doesn't mean he won't. What I would ask you, just a minute of patience, if you would be so kind as to listen to me, I have heard here today and I am very pleased that most MPs of the National Assembly are that the institution of the Protector of Citizens through the law, any changes and additions or the new Law on the Protector of Citizens, extends the powers, increases the capacity, increase the ability to act and reduce any possibility of restricting the Protector of citizens with regard to its activities. Together or, they are carriers and promoters, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, but will definitely take active part in taking into this the institution of the Protector of Citizens who can and can. I hope you will find something very quickly in front of you that could be called either alterations and additions or a new Law on the Protector of Citizens. I ask you to pay attention in this situation, because, I repeat, the institution of the Protector of Citizens is extremely important, not only in the Republic of Serbia, because it gives hope to those who are without hope that there is an institution in which they will be heard absolutely, understood and where they will be helped under the authority of that institution, and by extending these powers, capacities and possibilities of the Protector of the Citizens, that hope will be greater, and you know that hope dies last. I'm sorry about this freedom a little bit, maybe it's coming out of the context of the conversation. In any law that will be found before you, if it reduces powers or transfers to other powers of the Guardian of Citizens in which he has shown, not good, but exceptional results internationally acknowledged, that with a great reserve you may consider adopting such laws. If I've been more extensive, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57823	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so when we elected you, Mr Pasalic, as the Citizens' Protector in 2017, here in the National Assembly, I pointed out that the most important thing to do is to stick to the law as the Protector of the Citizens, that is to say, to do everything that Sasa Jankovic has not done before and not to do everything that Sasa Jankovic has done. It was a recipe that I was sure of success. That's what I said yesterday when I discussed the reports of the Commissioner for Public Information and I told him in this way, the future Commissioner, that he needed to do everything that Rodoljub Sabic didn't do and that he didn't do everything Rodoljub Sabic did. Now why am I making a parallel between Rodoljub Sabic and Sasa Jankovic? Because they both abused their function, dealing exclusively with daily politics, and they both belonged and still belong to a broad front, a broad movement that was formed, which aims only, exclusively and only attacks on Alexander Vukic and SNS. There were also various political parties in the movement, i.e. there are still various politicians, but also some media, and some NGOs, and some individuals, and Rodoljub Sabic and Sasa Jankovic play a role in acting as some independent experts. They have been hiding behind their functions for years, acting untouchable, acting absolutely protected, and every day engaged in an attack on Alexander Vukic, the Serbian government, SNS MPs and the Serbian Progressive Party, and for their engagement they received a rudely high salary from Serbian citizens. God forbid anyone would then dare ask the question of how much the trustee's salary for information or the Protector of citizens would be immediately crucified. So both the short and the tail would rise up instantly against him, he would immediately be someone who was choking human rights, freedom, democracy, etc. Just as a hack against Alexander Vukic was created today, as he dared to imagine, he dared to describe in an author's text a phenomenon, which has been in force in Serbia for decades, which is the division of the elite and the people. I'd add to the false elite and the people. Of course, this newspaper, which has long ceased to be today, is the forerunners in this hysteria and in this campaign, and look only at today’s edition of this “Today. ” In this regard, I will not look back at the anti-Serbian hysteria that is traditionally already represented by them, when it comes to trying to represent Serbs as a genocide people, so we have a guy named Vesenovic, who says – let's call things a real name, a genocide. That's the one who's a snotty, half-wit from that initiative -- we're not strangling Belgrade. So he can call home his real name. What I really wanted to point out is the title and today's "Today", says Vucic's dangerous orgy of radical pulsism. This is today's title in "Today's" apropo Vučić's authorial text in "Politica". Then we have some experts, Vladeta Jankovic, imagine Vladeta Jankovic, the one who was ambassador to the white world, so he stopped being an ambassador, and now he would be an ambassador again, so in his impotence of trees and stones around Vucic, he says – the authorial text of Aleksandr Vukic is one of the shameless, vile and serious orgies of radical pulsism. We have this on-call expert, to express myself so naturally sensitively, Sandu Raskovic Ivić, who says – it is not state-owned, that's how fans' leaders do. We have the Light of Trebeshanin, who says – the president has opened a witch hunt. We have an on-call Marinika Tepic – bringing an additional division among the people who have been divided anyway. Of course, we have Vesna Pesic, who says – he's being tortured by the elite because it's real. Yes, you're a real elite, but Vesna Pesic is a real example of the elite. Maybe it's a real example, but those fake elites that Vukic wrote about in the author's text. Why is she an expert, what kind of experts are these? Why is Sandra Raskovic Ivić an expert? Why is Marinika Tepic an expert? Change parties? She couldn't tell herself how many parties she'd changed in this term alone in the National Assembly. Let's remember that Petricic, a cartoonist in an attempt, who on that "N1" television the other day defamed the entire nation, said that the whole nation was stupid, dumb, illiterate, illiterate, masochistic even live on "N1". This morning on "N1" was the expert on fake public opinion research, I don't know his last name, and confirmed everything that Aleksandar Martinovic was saying in the National Assembly yesterday, which is that they're trying to make only stupid, uneducated, illiterate people in Serbia vote for SNS. Then who makes the division here? Who here shares the Serbian people? Alexander Wolfie or them? If that division exists, I will gladly belong to that part of the stupid, uneducated and illiterate people who are honest and these false elitists who have stolen everything in the country for years, decades while they ruled. I'd be happy to belong to that part of the people. So it is quite clear that these false elites, the elitists in the attempt, will not forgive Alexander Vukic for having dared to write this, what he had touched the oatmeal nest in this way, and it is quite certain that we will have even stronger and stronger attacks on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57825	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57826	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Citizens Protector, Mr Pasalic with associates, respected MPs, considering the regular annual report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018 with the proposal for a conclusion of the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, I want to explain to the public why the main message, which is being heard today, is being sent to you as an institution, continue to do your job as a professional and do not act as your predecessor Sasa Jankovic. Why? Former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and former Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data Rodoljub Sabic, not doing their job, but dealing with politics, deliberately distracted the public from the crime and robbery that took place there, besides them, in a shadow hidden from the eyes of the public. This distraction of public attention from the most important topics is best seen in the case of the wealth of state officials from that time, such as Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others. It is those who are campaigning today against the police minister Nebojska Stefanovic, today when the investigation has narrowed down around some people. Already in 2001, riding on the waves on October 5th, Dragan Gilas founded in Belgrade the "Direct Media" firm, shortly earlier with the Marketing Agency "Ovejsn" with which he entered the advertising space of the media in Serbia. From the founding role, at the expense of its agency, not more than 1,000 euros, in a few years it becomes one of the richest people in Serbia. Here, let's remind ourselves of Gilas' income growth between 2004 and 2013. He was admitted to the DS only in 2004, but immediately became a member of the Executive Board and the main committee, and from 2004 until the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, he served as Director of the National Office of the President of the Republic, and from May 2007 to July 2008, he served as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in charge of implementing the National Investment Plan. The Democratic Party ruled Serbia 12 at the time, out of 19 years. For sixteen years, it ruled Vojvodina, a 13-year-old Belgrade city, and ruled the largest number of cities and municipalities in the period from 2000 to 2012. There is a reasonable doubt that Gilas has been illegally enriched by performing three state functions -- director of the National Office, Minister for the National Investment Plan and mayor of Belgrade from 2004 to 2013. Two of his companies "Multicom" and "Darrekt Media" during the eight years, from 2005 to 2012, have achieved a business income of an incredible 583m euros. However, he personally reported to KRIK's property base assets consisting of, imagine, only 1,649 m of square property and only 24.3m euros, although the acquired Gilas wealth is witnessed by the APR data for companies that were either owned or co-owned by him. These data suggest that the business revenues of the two Gilas companies amounted to a total of 48 billion dinars or 400m euros from 2009 to 2012 of 22 billion dinars or 183m euros. The total business revenues of only these two Gilas companies amounted to fantastic 583m euros from 2005 to 2012. The revenues were even higher because the period from 2004 to 2009 for the "Darrekt Media" was not included. The rise in business revenues of the "Multicom Group" from three million in 2005 to, imagine, 7.85 billion dinars in 2012. This is what the 2011 reports from the late Verica Barac, who led the Anti-Corruption Council, also say, but I am not going to talk about it now because of the time savings. But I have to point out another way that the government officials at the time were getting rich, like they were robbing Belgrade. The best and most drastic example of how the city of Belgrade was robbed is abuse in connection with city building land. Not only were unwitting investors involved, but many of the city's authorities at the time also participated. From 2004 to 2011, the city government, the city council and the top of the Directorate imposed poor regulations in the area of building land management that allowed investors to pay only 10% of the fees for the construction land. If they paid those 10%, investors were entitled to a building permit, started production and started construction. After that, thousands of investors stopped paying. They built and sold buildings, and 90% of the commitments, those 90% they did not pay according to the Building Land Directorate and the construction of Belgrade city, did not settle down, but put in their pockets. At the time, the management of the Directorate did not even try to collect unsettled obligations from debtors, and in many cases, the Directorate was sovereignly ruled by the Democratic Party's staff. For seven years, the director of the Directorate was Boris Rankovic, a man of Boris Tadic's highest confidence and Dragan Dilas. The bottom line is that the representatives of the Democratic Party in the city government and the Directorate, on the basis of the harmful regulations they themselves have made, asked investors for inadequate funds provided by non-payments, such as bonds for natural persons and contractual powers for legal persons. They had to look for bank guarantees and mortgages, as effective means of security, but they didn't. As a result of the disastrously poor government of the Democratic Party in the city of Belgrade and the Directorate over seven years, the city of Belgrade has been damaged by 35 billion or 291m euros. That was the third annual budget of the city of Belgrade at the time. For that money, 150 kindergartens could be built or 1,500 buses could be bought, and citizens' money ended up in investor pockets and probably those who made such bad regulations. This is what I'd end up with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57827	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57828	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a report by the Citizens' Protector for 2018 and unlike yesterday's report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and the Protection of Personality Data, the focus of this report is precisely what is due to the waiting and there is this institution, which is to solve the problem of the citizens of Serbia and, of course, it is for every praise. What's the job of the Guardian of Citizens, it says in Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also states in Articles 17 to 23. The Civil Protection Act. Therefore, it controls the legality of the work of the state administration authority, the bodies that protect the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia and the entities entrusted with public authority. Mr. Pasalic, we see from your report that as Protector of Citizens, you have reached communication with more than 9,000 citizens in the last year. As for the number of complaints in which citizens pointed to violations of their rights, we see that there were 3.338, and that 2,346 cases were completed, they remained in the process of processing. I believe there are some cases you're not in charge of. And the information here is that you've been reviewing cases from earlier years, which are even 2,720 and of those 2,720 cases last year, you ended up even 1,443. I honestly don't wonder, since your predecessor Sasa Jankovic was engaged in his political career and finding a way to get to power, so he couldn't even do what his job was and didn't even deal with complaints from citizens. It is known to everyone, as is also known in his reports, by commenting on what Aleksandar Vukic said at press conferences, as Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said and whether the effects of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which he does not have the right to control, gave their results. The government's work has been controlled by the National Assembly, but as Jankovic violated both the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia have not been seen in any European country. Let me get back to your report. I think that in most of the grades you've given by categories, and here I mean the rights of a child, of gender equality, of the rights of persons with disabilities, of young people's rights, of older people's rights were very real in carrying out and problems, as well as possible solutions. I think it's precisely the result of gathering information and data directly from the citizens themselves. This information is good guidance for the further work of all institutions that are referred to by citizens as insufficiently efficient, so we should also correct something in their work, and this time we appeal to these institutions to do so. In short, I have no more serious objection to your work so far, and as long as you achieve quality communication with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you will also have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57829	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57830	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018 was first and foremost given in a clear format with detailed statistical data. The report shows that more than 9,000 citizens spoke with the Citizens' Protector in 2018, namely 9,120 citizens. Out of that number, a direct face-to-face conversation with the Citizens' Protector had over 2,400 citizens of Serbia, while 3.350 Serbian citizens spoke to the Citizens' Protector on the phone. As for the number of items received in 2018, more than 3,300 items were received, and the work was completed on over 2,300 items. What is important for Serbian citizens to know, that the Citizens' Protector has considered over 2,700 items from previous years that have been on hold, and out of those 2,700 cases, 1,500 completed work. So, if we add data on the number of cases from 2018 that end the work and data on the number of completed cases from earlier years, we come up with a figure of 3,800 completed cases, which is for every praise. What the Report pointed out by the Citizens' Protectors, that a large number of complaints were rejected because the conditions for handling them were not met, mainly because of their lack of jurisdiction, anonymity, prematureness or for some other reasons, and such a number of cases in 2018 were 1,650 and it is important for citizens to know that 72% of these rejected complaints were provided by the Citizens' Protector with advisory legal assistance. In addition to this regular report, the Citizens' Protector also made special reports, such as the Report on Child Rights, which I particularly want to commend, then, the Report on women's representation at decision-making sites in local self-government units, the Accessibility Report for all, etc., but also special reports were made on visits that the Citizens' Protector and his professional team had in cities, municipalities and institutions across the country of Serbia. Also mentioned in the report is the co-operation of the Citizens' Protectors with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities and the Social Inclusion and Reduction Team of the Government of Serbia and the award of the Protectors to units of local self-government that contributed to the development of all forms of accessibility in their territory in the previous year. I am proud to point out that in 2018, the city of Leskovac received a prize from the Citizens' Protector for contributing to the development of all forms of accessibility in its territory. I would like to commend more accessible communication with the Citizens' Protector, which is made possible for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for carrying out work outside the head office of the authorities by the Citizens' Protector. Namely, three offices have been opened in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji and I would like to commend that the Citizens' Protector and his associates are visiting Serbia's cities and municipalities, which are detailed reports as I have already mentioned. In the end, I will also mention the commendation of the formation of the Emergency Intervention Department. What it concludes after considering such a detailed and statistically neat report, is that Serbia's citizens managed to regain confidence in the Civil Protection Institution, which is, of course, under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, an independent institution. Although the citizens' institution under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia is an independent institution, it was not in the period from 2007 to 2017. On the contrary, the institution of the Protector of Citizens was totally destroyed and abused during that period. The citizens of Serbia are witnesses that the then Citizens' Protector from the position of the Citizens' Protector was involved in politics, tweeted, engaged in daily political activities, and eventually with the position of the Citizens' Protector and ran for the highest office, that is, the function of the President of the Republic of Serbia, of course, contrary to the Constitution and the law. I honestly believe that, Mr. Pasalic, you will continue to work as you have done so far, that we will not hear that you bought an angry car as your predecessor, that you have used special stickers on your car so the police can't stop you, that you have provided the same car for your family and if you don't do such things and continue to communicate with citizens as you have so far, you will have the support of SNS MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57831	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57832	Thank you, Chairman. What will certainly remain as something seen and as something that is the general impression of today's debate and what is the difference between the current Citizens' Protector and all its previous ones is that, regardless of the set of circumstances or events that preceded this meeting, the Citizens' Protector has shown a good attitude towards Parliament and people sitting in it today as representatives of citizens. In fact, it was rare in the previous period that someone treated MPs, parliament and the people in such a way and apologized for their actions. I really congratulate you on that and on that kind of relationship. Again, on the other hand, if we go back to the report, the esteemed Protector of Citizens, what is the fact and what is first noticed is that you have seriously approached the work you have chosen and set priorities in your work, and you have explained these priorities to us throughout the report. The hard work of restoring trust in the Civil Protection Institution was ahead of you and I see that you put this open door through this campaign as your first priority, where you set out to restore citizens' trust in the Republic of Serbia in the Civil Protection Institution. On the other hand, we must support and support certainly what is concerned, this second priority you listed in the report, and it concerns strengthening the capacities of the citizens' institution itself and forming this department for, as you called it, urgent action. We see, among other things, that you have signed a series of bilateral agreements with your colleagues and the Russian Federation, both in Turkey, Bulgaria, and Slovakia. That's for respect. But I'm simply thinking that maybe you should have one priority that I would call basic or zero, which is the depoliticalization of an institution whose head you're headed for. The Institute of Citizens' Protection is deeply undermined by the political functioning of your predecessor, Saša Jankovic, and do not forget that by using the function that you are doing today and using the logistics and infrastructure of the institution you are headed on, Sasa Jankovic has formed a political party that today threatens the rights of both the president of the state and of his family and, in general, the Serbian people in general, and it is your duty to protect that part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's your job. Remember that at the head of that party that came from that and that of your predecessor today there is this unfortunate Sergei Trifunović who, however bizarre it may sound to you or to anyone, is the direct successor of your predecessor. To tell you the truth, Your Honor, I must tell you, although you have not formally entered that priority into this report, your work so far could conclude that you have actually done it. I'm saying again, even though it's not formally here, you've been doing a job to depolitize an institution whose head and business of returning citizens' trust to the Civil Protection Institute. Dear Citizens Protector, we SNS MPs are still sure that we did a good and quality job when we supported your choice in place and in the function you're doing today and of course we don't regret this choice, and on the other hand you had, I say, one difficult circumstance, because you met with a politicised institution, and on the other hand you had an extenuating circumstance. In fact, you could compare on one side what it looks like to work against the institutions of the state of citizens and what it looks like to work for institutions, for the state, for the citizens. On the one hand, you could compare the work of your predecessor Sasa Jankovic, and on the other hand take the work of President Vukic, for example. If you take this other in your future work as an example of how it applies to the function you perform at all, I have no doubt that the work you are doing will be well and responsibly done. I have no doubt that this report will also be accepted, but the report that will be held next year in front of MPs in this distinguished parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57833	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milan Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57834	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Citizens' Protector with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, today we are considering a report by the Citizens' Protector for 2018. Human rights are a language of basic human needs, so that their respect and protection affect the everyday lives of citizens, especially members of vulnerable groups. This specifically applies to women, victims of domestic violence, children and young people, people with disabilities, refugees. In order to get a picture of the position of sensitive categories, it is important to carry out research, which gives us the opportunity to know where to act stimulatingly. In 2018, the Citizens' Protector produced a special report on the state of child rights in the Republic of Serbia, which can be said, a human rights scanner. The report points to the need to improve child protection against violence, as well as the need to improve the normative framework in different areas. Nearly a quarter of the total number of complaints received in the area of child rights refers to violence against children. The spread of violence towards children requires special attention and effort. The right to protect against all forms of violence represents the fundamental right of the child. The goals of the strategy are for all children in Serbia to grow up in a safe and stimulating environment. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia protects children from physical, economic and any other exploitation or abuse. Family law provides for measures to protect children. While the Penal Code sees a child in a context of criminal responsibility. And these measures are taken every day. Social exclusion and marginalization represented in poor children, children with interference and Roma children. Serbia has adopted a poverty reduction strategy, which is a national document containing the main strategic guidelines for social development. They focus on economic development and growth, job creation and more efficient social protection. To that end, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working to continue implementing reforms, combating corruption and a rule of law-based state. The goal is to give each child an equal chance and we can be content with what has been achieved so far. We have made it possible for children in Serbia to have better quality health and education. For children with developmental disturbances, the separations are doubled. The news is that Serbia will soon receive the first independent institution to protect the rights of the child and thus round the concept of children's rights. New changes and additions will provide support measures for parents of severely ill children and children with developmental and disability disorders that require constant care and assistance, as well as the right to profit from special child care. The government has drafted a bill on the process of determining the status of children suspected to have disappeared from the maternity centre in Serbia, which is in the process. The Council of Europe gave a positive assessment of the bill, and most of the recommendations of the Council of Europe were adopted and the draft was in line with those recommendations. During the report period in the Republic of Serbia, the tendency to improve child protection has continued. As a society and in this way we show how committed we are to protecting the most vulnerable categories, and these are certainly children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57835	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57836	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Protected Citizens with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The protection of citizens is a constitutional category and therefore is a very important independent body and this report for 2018 is written on 115 pages and it is indeed, Mr Protector, comprehensive. It contains data on shortcomings and irregularities in the work of the Authority, as well as proposals to improve human and minority rights. The report contains a cross-section, in fact, in the area of human rights, based on complaints from citizens about the actions of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Let me say of all rights, especially here I point out now where you have analyzed gender equality, child rights, the rights of persons with disabilities and rights alongside other members of national minority rights. Dear Mr. Citizen Protector, in order for our state to improve these rights to a higher degree, we need to return educational action to all educational institutions and not only educational institutions but social organisations, parents' homes and one word to say return education to society where he was expelled from the rule of the former regime in 2000. We are now on our way back and we hope in a consistent time that we will, that future generations will be brought up so that these problems will be less. Let me now say something about the name and last name of your predecessor Sasa Jankovic, in a people known as Sale Pranja. I'll tell you why the prague, that respected citizens know what it's all about. He, as Protector of Citizens, has knowingly violated the Law on the Protection of the Citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you know how? By analysing the political situation, he often gave political assessments and statements in the Republic of Serbia, although under Article 10a of the Law on the Protector of Citizens is explicitly prohibited. I quote this article: "The Protector of Citizens cannot give statements of political nature" is a final quote, and that is why my smallness along with the fellow Members of the SNS is very often criticised in this high house. Sasa Jankovic, called Sale Prangi, highly tended and unargumentedly criticised the government of the Republic of Serbia as the Protector of Citizens and its president, Alexander Vukic. Examples, so on July 31st 2016, he openly attacked Alexander Vukic, so I quote: "which until then did not form the Government of the Republic of Serbia", although the legal deadline for its formation did not expire, there was still one month left. You see what your former predecessor was getting himself into. Also, Sasa Jankovic, in a people known as Sale Prangi, has without any reason unlawfully attacked the government of the Republic of Serbia in an interview that he gave on 9 December 2016, although he knew well that he was the Protector of the Citizens, was not legally authorized to control the work of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Even publicly rebuked him for it until then, his party colleague, Boris Tadic's adviser, Nebojsa Krstic, said "it is not good that Jankovic as the Protector of citizens who control the work of state authorities himself does not respect and violate the law". Sasa Jankovic, in a people known as Sale Prangi, later founded, as you know, Mr. Protector and the Party, and the preparation for the establishment of the party, led as the Protector of Citizens, imagine, of course not to be allowed, because the law did not allow it. Sale prangi, like all those in the Alliance for Serbia, gave up KIM, said on August 3, 2017: "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo being admitted to Interpol, and thus recognises the independence of KIM." Imagine, Mr. Citizens' Protector, that this was said by your predecessor, Sasa Jankovic, in a people known as Sale Prangi and his vice-president of the newly founded party and member of the Presidency of the Force Movement, Prof. Dr. Rade Veljanovski, in a people known as the Rade eggs professor, on 21 April 2016, said: "Serbia should recognise KIM, provide him with a chair in the UN." Imagine the professor teaching students, the great patriot. Former Citizens' Protector and presidential candidate Sala Praggi, as if he had come down from his mind when he said, "Serbia has yet to prove that the monasteries on KIM, Gracanica and Decani are Serbian." Sasa Jankovic was the main actor in the "gun" affair, and that's why he's called Sale Praggi, and the people remember him as Sale Prangija, when in 1993 in his apartment, from his gun, without permission, Predrag Gojkovic was allegedly killed. I often talked about it in this high house and asked MP questions. I have come to the data that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Historical Archives in Belgrade are in contact with the Commission's decision of 14. 06. In 2004, they destroyed all the documentation as worthless archival material. Imagine, gentlemen, history professors, that this is worthless archival material, and the Director of the Archives at the time, you know who he was -- the great Branka Prpa. Now, you can see how muchspread was the Protector of the citizens and then the government, or party of the former regime, all for the purpose of robbing citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In 2011, Halle Prangi bought a new luxury jeep on behalf of his cabinet, as if you were doing it today, the Guardian of Citizens. That's not the problem. The problem is that several months later his wife Slavica bought from the same house, also a jeep, the same model, but diesel, for much cheaper than he paid for. She paid 18,000 euros, and the jeep cost 30,000 euros. That's how they pulled money out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, the Citizens' Protector spoke of the threat of journalists, you, Mr. Protector, spoke here. I don't mind protecting them, and we need to protect them, but we are witnesses of permanent, everyday, unprecedented, malicious and unworthy media attacks on Alexander Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, and this has been done years ago, and I haven't seen that in the report. There is not a single president of the Republic in Serbia's recent history that has been more attacked and more voted in the elections. And not only him, but his family, his brother, father and mother, at a time when he makes superhuman efforts to find a lasting, fair and compromise solution for the southern Serbian province. In particular, they have been focusing on his associates these days, in the first place on Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Let me say why. Because Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic made a huge contribution to the interior ministry's promotion in all sectors of the ministry and restored the reputation of this important Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The MUP is one of the cornerstones of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, whose engine is the momentum of the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic. That's why they attack him, for no reason, those of the Alliance for Serbia, headed by Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the Giki Mafia, who before entering politics was just naked, and now the Giki Mafia, believe it or not, a mafia with 700m euros. Whomever else is being attacked, you saw in the press today - Mr. Interior Minister, being attacked by a former academic named Dusan Teodoric, who is calling for, imagine, students to boycott the course early in the academic year, to solve the plagiarism problem. Dear students of the Republic of Serbia, I address you, do not be dragged into political games by irresponsible teachers, even if they are academics. Dear Citizens' Protector, Serbia is a democratic country. In it, the criticism of the authorities is even desirable. But there is a huge insurmountable difference between criticism and media attacks. The media criticism of the authorities should be based on the truthfulness of the facts. Do journalists do that often? And that's exactly why she's socially useful. However, certain individuals employed in certain lists, but some on-call-analytical and professional charlatans, are not here, escaped, along with others, and Djoko Vukadinovic called Vlah, lies, half-truths about the President of the Republic and various plantings poison citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the limit. Dear Protector, there is not a single MP in this high house who will not condemn any kind of violence against journalists, regardless of the occasion. But I underline three times, but, on the condition that journalists behave in accordance with regulations, good customs and standard practice, which is often not done by journalists. I beg them, once again, to hear these sentences well. There is not a single MP in this high house who will not condemn any kind of violence against journalists, regardless of the occasion, but provided that journalists behave in accordance with regulations, good customs and standard practice, which they often do not. And they need to ask themselves, do they often adhere to the press code under regular number one? Sasa Jankovic, in the end, let me say, "prange" in a people called, is only part of a joint venture of the former government, whose goal was to rob, satanicise citizens and the state of Serbia. You heard one today, who accused the Serbs here of genocide and fled this high house. Members of the joint venture were, among others, only two of them: Dragan Djilas, called "Djiki Mafia", Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds and Sergei Veseinovic, called "pishoi", or "pisanovic", because he said, quote, that he "will piss on the president's grave". Dear Protector, I, as well as my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, will be fully pleased to vote on your report, because in your work so far, we have not noticed that your institution has been involved in political waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57837	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57838	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and on this Report, the National Assembly said, I would say, with all due attention and this report, we have devoted a significant analysis, we have pointed out all those issues that we consider to be indisputable, important for the state and society, which fall directly within the scope of your work, Mr Pasalic. With regard to these things that you listed in the report itself, I have a few comments and a few questions that I will direct to you, but regarding all those areas that you cover with your work I also have to present a few things that I think are important, and as a subject, and it is important in all its content. First of all, in the report itself, you are in that chapter relating to co-operation with different institutions, in the first place with institutions that you do not control directly, you have looked at, of course, and the relationship that the Citizens' Protector has with the National Assembly, and there have been words today. In general, you have heard from our authorised representative, Mrs. Christmas, what our MP group thinks, you have heard that a proper attitude towards the work we are today in an institution called the Protector of Citizens, that institution returned to the people, has been brought back to the citizens, and that a racial difference has been made in relation to that period which, not only us from the SNS or the MPs in the wider context, but indeed the people of Serbia recognises as one difficult politicisation of that institution. You know what I mean, I mean the period when your predecessor, Sasa Jankovic, decided to open up, over time more and more open, deal with politics. And he was doing it from the position of the Guardian of Citizens, which, of course, was controversial in the whole story. It is not disputed to deal with politics in Serbia, it is not disputed to have an opinion on any topic, nor to choose sides, not even tasteless means, funds below any acceptable decent level in political struggle. They are all personal choices and a man has the right to do so, but he does not have the right to use these things in such a way and to deal with them with a position that implies a strict ban, a strict one, that is, from the law imposed by the ban on politics, and when someone does so from the position of the Protector of the Citizens, as Saša Jankovic did or from the position of the Trustee, as Rodoljub Sabic did, and we talked about it in this very room yesterday, because yesterday we discussed the Report of the Trustee for information of public importance, these are unacceptable things and this violates the relationship that needs to have the institution in question with the citizens themselves, above all. With the National Assembly, it's one dimension of the problem, but with the citizens first of all. When a man thus disobeys the law, he ignores his obligations and abuses the institution, he destroys citizens' trust, and we have pointed to that. We believe, therefore, that today, when it comes to your institution, this practice has changed. Changed, of course, in a positive direction, but as far as your relationship with the National Assembly in the chapter I gave you, you made a comment on co-operation with the relevant assembly committees. Correct me if I'm wrong. That's where you said, among other things, that your reports were discussed every time by the Justice Committee. I found it in the report that you delivered to us, so I will invite you to confirm to the citizens that, if you find it appropriate, that you were, therefore, respected by the National Assembly, or its working bodies. Also, you've found in your report, and I'm going to ask you, for the sake of the citizens who are following this, to confirm that again, the Assembly Committee, but the Board of Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, each time, has come out to meet your proposals, your demands and your needs. So, even when it was necessary to give consent to your regulations or in a particular direction that is important for your institution to correct decisions, the Administrative Committee has always, without exception, come out with such needs to meet you. As far as I know, there is no difference compared to how the Administrative Board treated all other institutions. Yesterday, unfortunately, we had to get a representative of the Commissioner for Information out of public importance literally a few times to encourage us to simply tell us if it's true or not true, nothing more than that. It is important for us to know that tomorrow every citizen of this country could do well, honestly, on the basis of all the information he has received, but to get it, and by his own mind to conclude whether it stands or does not stand that the National Assembly respects all those institutions, organs, and bodies chosen by the MPs, or the National Assembly itself. We think he respects them. We believe that, for our part, the National Assembly is making a great contribution to making this co-operation right, but I would be interested to have you confirm or disprove these claims of mine and simply say at the very end how you from your perspective this relationship, this collaboration, to say so, you see. The second thing, when it comes to the confidence of citizens in the institution itself, is that, considering this poor practice, this disastrous practice as it was established during the time that Sasa Jankovic was at the head of the Civil Protection Institution, we had to stop with great regret, but we had to realize that his actions were evident, so something that was supported by the data, showed a loss of citizens' trust. From year to year 2014, it seems to me, when it has openly started to deal with politics in an illegal way, Sasa Jankovic, therefore, we have found that from year to year more and more, increasingly reduces the number of citizens who address the institution of the Protector and, of course, we understand it as a loss of trust. I would ask you for one sentence of all if you have succeeded in this short period of time to reverse this trend? Have you at least managed to stop him, because it is important for us to know that citizens trust an institution like the Citizens' Protector and it would be of interest to me, the whole society seems to be talking to every time they think there is a need for this species and that they do so with maximum confidence, that they are not afraid that someone will abuse them for political accounting. I believe that you do your job correctly, that you do not give cause for any doubt of this kind, but it is also important to me to know whether we are able to reach the citizens and thus, in a good way, to restore their pummeled trust now slowly and slowly. So, I'm going to ask you at the very end, if you consider it necessary, to make that comment, did you notice that things are being fixed in this regard? What does the work you do mean, and we have heard many important observations today and when it comes to the rights of those people who do public work in any way, when it comes to people who are engaged in the media sphere, about journalists? However, it may seem comical to you today, not certain, one day I would not be surprised to see someone talking to you because today’s MPs are denied the right to believe, in accordance with the law, in accordance with their work of the Members of the People. I had to smile slightly, but they're not funny stories at all. We today have, well, I would say, an incredible situation for mass people to give themselves the right luxury, the comfort of trying to command the MPs, to threaten them, to impose on them what they can, or cannot vote, what attitude they dare, or must not have on any law, to threaten them with lawsuits and various Strasburys, and God knows what things they don't. You have certainly heard that when we, for example, are engaged here in the debate on the subject of amendments and the addition of the Criminal Code, that we have had comments given by judges and seem to me on their behalf by their NGOs, some independent associations that gather both judges and prosecutors and lawyers, that we must not, imagine, the MPs have a certain position, that they must not vote for certain solutions, in this particular case they must not advocate that those who killed beastly children should not be punished, and now imposes on the MP in this way the will and serve the threatening tone almost – you must not do so in this and that way, when the MP says, well, they can't do so, what can not be defined by the MPs of the people's Parliament by any private will, but surely, then you are exposed to literally media torture. The example works, the People's MP, it seems to me, the news from last night or this morning, in the opinion of various so-called so-called. Call independent media, therefore, self-proclaimed independent media, should not even have an opinion on whether a certain act is in the good interest of the Serbian state or not. What exactly am I thinking about? When MP Aleksandar Martinovic says that what they do is a variety of called independent media is not in the good interest of the Serbian state, then on the other hand he gets a statement from some NUNS -- and now we're going to go to the father god, Strasbourg, Brussels, and I don't know who we're not suing and ask for sanctions. Be careful what is sanctioned - the right of the MP to declare his own court and his own opinion in the National Assembly with the speaker. You know the law, Mr. Pasalic, and you know whether it is possible to sanction this right, whether it is possible to challenge someone, deny that right, but, as you can see, there are some people in this country who feel that the law does not oblige them, who think that their highly respected self-proclaimed elite opinion is more important than anything in the world, even from the law itself. And it's more important than the Constitution. Of course, we're talking again about people who, thinking they're some kind of elite, think they're more valuable than other people. Come on, they don't respect the laws, but that example and that kind of disrespect of other people has to do with your work, because it's already about discrimination and I'm going to say a few words more about it, but, specifically, when it comes to these other NUNS, I can't help but notice, and with all the risk of doing it in this room here, for this pay phone here, and I end up tomorrow by some Strasbourg, Brussels and ask the god who doesn't, but these NUNSs probably have a special kind of obligation to react to Alexander Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic, any minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who comes from the SNS and all of us who are the MPs here, and we come from the SNS, because they seem to have a certain financial obligation. To be clear and clear, if I'm not mistaken about the number, six million benevolently and broadly have been made available to them by Dragan Gilas and that's the thing that's familiar. So this information is public knowledge. That, among other things, was discussed at the NUNS, where many have rebelled over such a decision to accept that money from Dragan Gilas. In particular, I think a journalist, Tamara Scroza, left the association in protest. What was so controversial about it, whether someone asked for consent, a deal, whether or not the way the money was going to be used, I don't know, and I don't want to get into it, but it's a fact. So this is known and they reported themselves, among other things, when they reported changes in their ranks. Now, I think there's a certain obligation to someone who's been so kind, so broad-minded that you have such a beautiful number of millions at your disposal. For what? Because, of course, none of us in the National Assembly or, frankly, in the Government of Serbia or Alexander Vukic, at least, fear of openly pointing to things that are absolutely abnormal and illogical. When it comes to Dragan Gilas, the fact that this man began to deal with politics, therefore, went into the right plan politically as someone who did not have more than a theoretical couple thousand euros. The question was whether he had so much in practice, and theoretically could not have had more after that, and then he performed the most sound, most significant, most responsible duties both in his party and in the state, so he was the director of the Office of the President of the Republic, so he was the Minister of the NIP, and he was mayor of Belgrade on several occasions and with his post as he passed, the man was getting richer, so that at one point, it was probably at the end of his last term at the head of the city of Belgrade, so I admitted, to be precise to my journalists that he had property worth more than tens of millions of euros. Let's make it 25 million euros, what he confessed at that point, don't hold my hand whether it's 24, or 28, let's say it's 25. Now a logical question -- how is it possible that someone is dealing with this kind of public work, that someone is doing this kind of political function, that they are getting rich in such a brutal way? We're talking - it's clearly controversial. We say - it clearly requires an explanation, and we insist on it being dealt with by competent institutions. We do not judge anyone, but we say - the law should deal with these, procedures and clear rules. People who are legally authorized to deal with it, I guess that's normal in every country where there's a rule of law. All those who wash their mouths with the rule of law, they can't agree that it's a elemental thing where the rule of law exists. But it can't scare us, it can't shut us down that we don't say -- it's absolutely wrong for a man to be mayor, to have private firms, and that companies that work with the public service and Studio B, the city television in that city whose mayor he is, and with various businesses and institutions in the city whose mayor is and that, as far as he is concerned, traffic is on the accounts of all these companies, 500 million euros. So that's the question we're asking, and because of such questions, it looks like we're getting reactions like those from the mentioned NUNS. Whether she agreed with her NUNS policy or disagreed with Tamar Scrooz, I don't know, but that because of Gilas' money, it broke, it's known. The lady mentioned, and this has to do with exactly your jurisdiction, as far as the child's rights are concerned, in those media outlets she gave the following assessment. I'm asking you to listen to this carefully. She referred to the case of the protest, so-called protest. A protest by small graduates this year and a statement that a young man, who submitted certain demands and political demands, is the son of one of the closest associates, Dragan Gilas. And they immediately jumped to protect, allegedly, the rights of that young man and now, completely ignored the fact that no one in the SNS has declared that he is called one or the other, but was published by the media. And that he's guilty, let's say, of our MP for saying that this young man, to whom others have made a name and who has submitted political demands, and the request to disband the government is a political requirement for a couple of excellants, that he is the son of his father, which is probably a data that can confirm every postman when he looks at a list of tenants in a building. But that we're here for something. Now, this Scroza is supposed to defend this young man. But listen to this, this is important. He says – we must not mix this young man's case with the cases of some famous children, little Vukan, little Milica, not so little Danila, or the son of Minister Mihajlovic. Little Vukan, little militia and not so little Daniel, is meant for the children of Alexander Vukic. What's he saying next? These famous children are children of public officials, the people we have chosen and paid them to care for the national interest, the interests of citizens and citizens and to say - they must not be violated privacy, they must not be mentioned, except when under question they bring exactly what their parents are paid for, public interest. So, once again, to hear and understand, when they think that there is a public interest, and who, those who consider themselves to be God's days that they decide whether something is one way or another, let you and the law and any procedure and rule, but they decide, so when they think there is a public interest, they say -- well, then it's justified to talk about the children of Alexander Vukic, about little Vukan, about the baby, it's a little militia, and they say, not so little Daniel. It can, and it can be spread through the media, and any one of them can say anything and say, sing, draft, whatever they want, can, if they think, and believe that there is obviously a public interest. When someone says this, I can't help but ask - is this a proper relationship to the protection of children's rights? It seems there are some rules for all the children or maybe all the children in this country are one, and for the children of Alexander Vukic is completely different from the vision of these people. And someone writes that, to be published in these media outlets and without any problem by name or name, it is signed, if it is of state public interest, by their high court. This is about protecting children's rights, Mr. Pasalic. When it comes to discrimination, which many people in this country are exposed to, I've already told you, there are some things that you can expect to be asked by citizens, and that's why I'm talking about them right now. Do not be surprised that you are approached by citizens who will say - we are openly threatened and we are threatened by the rights of this Thai team gathered around Dragan Gilas, I think of him personally, of Vuk Jeremic, who already knows what he was doing to Serbia and thus boasts and laughs about it in conversation with his friends and partners, business partners, Boška Obradovica, who is a classical ljotician, fascist. So they're all openly threatening lustration together. They say when they come to power, they think it will be very fast, I don't know, they openly threaten to ban the right to work, not only for people who do politics, but also for themselves as their own enemies, who hate Balček, Alexander Vukic and his children, you have heard that, but also for people who are engaged and in the media sphere, people who are unwittingly insulting, you have heard today a lot of examples of how and in what way, they say - you won't be able to do your job, you will close down, you will close down those TVs and newspapers that are not ours. Come on, they're going to take away their licenses and national frequencies, people say -- they're going to shut them down, they're going to level them down. So then they say, and I think it says one of the vice presidents of Gilas' party, the Greens are called, I don't know what they're called today, whether they're still environmentalists, what does it matter? He says -- we're going to lute, we're going to end all of it, we're going to destroy both judges and prosecutors and all of the elected, the appointed faces, all of our lives. So, all these people, they're threatening to clean them off the face of the earth. Don't be surprised at that if someone feels maybe really threatened and says, "I think this has a lot to do with my rights." Of course, in order for such a thing to really happen, these people need first in any way to get their hands on the authorities. In the election, it's clear they don't stand a chance. If you think of it, then all the empty threats, I agree, you're very probably quite right, but these people, to be honest and open to the end, the elections and they don't care, just because it's clear to them that the elections have nothing to ask for, that they don't have citizens' support. This kind of negative, humiliating relationship, the attitudes of shagging, the lack of respect for their own people, is seen through their views of elections and through their view of alternative methods of coming to power. You know the alternatives there are already. That means the street, then. That means lynch. It means long pipes that they're openly talking about head-to-head. That's what they're talking about. It means hangings that wear openly. It means motor saws that are waving open and threatening. And that's where you see their relationship with the people. You have heard certain words coming from that camp, Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic – Vukic, in the elections to win, we cannot, over 60% of the functionally illiterate citizens are there and they will remain his believers until the end. So, at the same time, they admit that in fair and democratic elections they can't win, but they discriminate against the citizens of this country, declare them and say they don't know who's doing it, they're some anonymous bots. No one's anonymous. A man by his name, Gajic Vladimir, says so. These people 60% of the citizens of this country are illiterate and less valuable and these citizens could turn to you and say – this is absolutely not right and not acceptable. It has nothing to do with who's gonna be in power now. These people are being insulted on a daily basis like this. That's what's really happening today, as we talk about it today, and yesterday happened last week, and it's going to continue for sure, and then it's going to continue, so that man is the advocate of the revolution, the advocate of the rebellion of the people, and he's going to need the support of the foreign forces. So it's a plan to come to power, and when, far away, it comes to power that everyone is then lustrated and that all their possible and impossible rights are taken away. These are questions that could make the citizens turn around. I don't know if they already do. As far as other rights are concerned, you have heard for sure and, today, other MPs have said, the latest action, and this is the plan of these self-proclaimed elites, other Serbs, who see themselves as the best and smartest in the world. Of course, much better than us stupid, primitive majority in Serbia, as they themselves admit, which we don't have teeth, our diplomas are no good because they're on more unquality paper than they probably are, and now they're openly threatening. They want all the people, watch this, all the people who ever graduated from some high school facility, which, by chance, either of us ended up canceling their diplomas. So whoever had this accident to study at any university that one of us had finished, starting with our ministers, and here we are, can expect these, this Teodorovic, to say, is that so, Mr Atlagic, to cancel their diplomas, because it's nothing living. How could it be good if we had diplomas like that? Our diplomas must be worthless just because they're ours, and then they're all the same, equally worthless, and they should all be taken away. Those things, I'm convinced, you can expect some people to react and some questions to ask. And because they may have been stolen, Mr. Pasalic. Why am I saying this now? The activity of the city of Belgrade, or its companies, is under way that I believe you heard these days from the media, that it reacts in an appropriate way due to the damage suffered by the city of Belgrade, or its public enterprises by SBB. You shouldn't be surprised, if you think about it, it's still some business interest of this Dragan Gilas, which I was talking about earlier. Yes, him and his Dragan Solak. So, against the SBB, I read allegations from the official media in today's announcements, a lawsuit will be filed for compensation of damages and criminal charges against those responsible for the Belgrade Power Plant's public utility for the purposes of this company. Why am I telling you this? Because the city of Belgrade plans to support all citizens in need of legal assistance, because it turns out that this company, as this statement explains, specifies, not only to set up without permission and consent, does not pay, but it seems that where their equipment is installed and their cables in buildings where people live, ordinary citizens live, use other people's electricity, or steal electricity, to call the thing completely plastic. And the city of Belgrade says -- there is a Civilian Protector at the city level, he will come out to meet. I believe they're already addressing the Belgrade Citizens' Protector, who say here it seems that's exactly what happened. Someone's hooked up with the SBB and our power runs out, no questions asked, no charge at all. Why should you be interested in this? These are important questions. These are serious questions. In response to this kind of question, the company itself said, it delivered a 2005 ministry solution, from that time when they gave the solution to their firm, which allows them to set cables along the Kodir 10 route. Now this has nothing to do with Belgrade. This will turn out to be the whole of Serbia, so I wouldn't be surprised, Mr Pasalic, if people, faced with the same kind of problems. So they are not naturally referred to as the Protector of the citizens of Belgrade, but they are people who live along Corridor 10, and you know what this all means geographically and all people are concerned about. So these are some things that we need to think about and you should think about when it comes to issues that are directly within your jurisdiction. What I would like to say to you at the very end, we find it absolutely indisputable to vote on the proposal for conclusions regarding your report. Therefore, the proposal for a conclusion drawn up by the relevant congregation committee. We, as a parliamentary group, will say our authorised representative today, expect it in such a way as to act, it is entirely independent of what kind of answer you possibly provide to these questions that I have asked, but in the interest of the citizens, the fastest possible public, I would remind you in the very end and ask you to say, literally, in accordance with how you feel and believe that you have had good co-operation with the National Assembly as an institution, whether you think that cooperation has been successful, that the citizens hear whether you have been or have not been sufficiently respected by the National Assembly. It is our desire that this positive co-operation, as we see it and understand it be continued, so if there is a good space, of course and further promoted in the period ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57840	Dear MP Orlic, as regards co-operation between the citizens' institution and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which committee, which, by the Administrative Committee, which, as regards the judiciary, the rights of the child, has so far been not good, but exceptional, which does not mean that, in some future period, it will be of certain good. I'm just going to read the section of the report, which is said in July 2014 that the National Assembly put in its conclusion the basic systems of monitoring the implementation of the Citizens' Protector's recommendation. In conclusion, the government's obligation to carry out the National Assembly once every six months on the implementation of recommendations made by the Citizens' Protectors. The public defender has no knowledge that the government acted according to the Assembly's conclusion in 2018. The Ombudsman records co-operation with the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which discussed the Annual Report for 2017 in May 2018. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has not considered the Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors for 2017 in the child rights work, which is of particular importance for the achievement of children's rights in the Republic of Serbia. On 2 March 2018, the Citizens' Protector approved the required number of employees for a specified time in the Sectional Service of the Citizens' Protector for 2018 in accordance with the law and method of determining the maximum number of public sector employees and during the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the Professional Service of the Citizens' Protectors, thereby contributing to the improvement of the staff capacities of the professional service of this independent body. On 26 October 2018, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues supported the proposal of the Citizens' Protector for decision-making in amendments to the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service and the Internal Organisation Regulations and the Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens, which provides for the reorganisation of the work of the professional service within the established maximum number of employees, adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 7 December 2018. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, discussed the report on the work of the national torture prevention mechanism for 2017, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector on 5 December 2018. In October 2018, the Citizens' Protector provided the National Assembly with the requested information from its jurisdiction to prepare a meeting of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. As you can see from the attached, that co-operation was good and what I'm convinced of will be even better. Through the questions that you have asked me and our co-operation with the Serbian Parliament, we are practically coming to the answer to this question, which is how many citizens of Serbia are complaining, i.e. addressing the institution of the Protector of Citizens. I must say, during a long time, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have not been familiar with what the Citizens' Protector is essentially doing and in which areas it can protect them. This is why such sessions, cooperation in this format in the plural or committees are very important, because citizens who follow it learn directly or indirectly what are the practical obligations and rights of the Protector of the work they do. We will make sure that in the coming period, through special reports, we initiate those topics that are very important for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia as a state, and when I say, I mean the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the emphasis of those problems that are often not seen, because they do not have enough media attention, because they are not close to administrative centres and larger cities in the Republic of Serbia, I would not now be counting, there will be opportunities, which really fall within the category of forgotten problems, which we have been focusing on lately. You mentioned discrimination, I could say that the protection against discrimination deals with a special service, which is the Commissioner for the Protection of Discrimination, but certainly I will not say for a simple reason, because the scope of human rights implies and protection against discrimination. So it also belongs to our work. But, please, and this time, your esteemed MPs, always consider one thing, that when new laws are passed then it is necessary by the modest means of the Republic of Serbia to multiply institutions instead of the concentration of several institutions that carry out their work properly. I will point out this question several times for the reason that, in the existing capacities, the Protector of citizens can do their job very correctly, well, but not without co-operation with this esteemed home, where, through you indirectly or directly, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are informed of their rights, including those rights that can, should or should be more explicit, must protect the institution of the Protectors of the Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-11-0.u57841	Thank you. Since there are no more entries on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word, and on the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I'm concluding a unique search. We'll continue the debate tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
