ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51663	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Preschool Education is a proposed law in a set of educational laws that has the least proposed amendments. The proposed changes mainly relate to electronic record keeping in pre-school institutions. What is not well defined by this bill is that institutions are left with the possibility that they can, which means that they do not have to keep every record electronically under the single information system of education. You, Minister, in your opening statement, have said the following, quote – the changes relate exclusively to the electronic management of the administration in pre-school institutions, because in the old law we left that it can be conducted both in writing and electronically. When we did a lot of work in these last two years on that plan, there was a need for this electronic model to be more concrete and reliable now. However, Article 1 states - the institution can keep any record of Article 1 and 2 of this article electronically. Well, if there's no problem in explaining that, can the facility or the sea and what are the changes? They would also point to a problem in this bill relating to the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. You have here suggested that it would take two years for sublegal acts to implement this law, which we think is too long, that it should be six months, because the amendments to the Preschool Law we had two years ago, and here, it's changing again and it's the same deadline for sublaws for two years, so we're afraid it's going to be the same with this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51664	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51665	We have submitted an amendment to this bill, or several amendments with the intention to edit this little legal text, but the bottom line is that these amendments, you ministers, do not change anything significant in this area, in the field of preschool education and education, and you know well that Serbia has many problems both in this area and in the field of education and education at all. And through the next amendments, we're going to talk about what was actually going to change, and you haven't changed that. And just like this amendment, which is why you didn't accept it talking about how you chose order for several members to change them, to fit into digitisation, against which we don't have anything, but it's really a problem for you to now change the law of 2017. We all know that that same year, Ana Brnabic in her exposé, when she was elected Prime Minister, actually said that the essence of her will be the digitisation of all possible areas in Serbia. Before that, her previous Alexander Vukic, perhaps a little less, spoke in his exposé. So now we ask ourselves, why do you pass, or propose laws, without first reading at least the exposés of the Prime Minister, or then the candidates? At least you have to fit in. Now that your amendment draws attention to the fact that this position is not well formulated by the 3rd term of Article 6, you are telling us that you do not accept the amendment because the decision in the bill is in line with the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System and the concept of the bill. Now, I'm asking you, when you got this amendment, did you accidentally get a little interested, so you looked at that Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System in this very sense in which we submitted the amendment? You know, one law you're referring to is not a holy letter. We have the right to change it, or to propose it. You also have the opportunity to change it. But you're all doing this in order and it's bad. That's bad, first of all, by the National Assembly. You know well, as well as the congregation's majority, that trees and stones are raised in the Assembly, and you, instead of contributing together with the congregation's majority, to the return of the National Assembly to its democratic frameworks, to its dignity, we who are here to do so, are doing it all wrong. You know, the system -- we can do it, it's not good. It can last, but it can't last forever. Here, so the public knows what we really wanted. We haven't essentially changed your law, we've just turned our attention to what we think is wrong. You say – the type, name, content, appearance of forms, records of public documents and how they are managed, completed and published is prescribed by the minister in accordance with the law and this law. We said that you should only say – the institution of each of the records of the article's Articles 1 and 2, because you have already listed them, leads electronically. It is understood, then, that item 1 and 2 will be read in the context of a single information system of education in accordance with the law and this law, with this formulation not being good either. Enough to say - according to the law, because this law is also the law. There are many reasons for this amendment to be accepted. It doesn't really change anything, but really this proposal of yours, compared to our amendment, is unhumble, and we really draw attention to the ministers paying a little attention to our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51666	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51667	Mr. Minister, the amendment and addition of the Preschool Education Act is an opportunity to discuss the overall situation in preschool education in the country, with a view to the period when those from the failed yellow enterprise and their followers the Western mercenaries took over in 2000. Since 2005 until 2011, you are probably familiar with it as a minister, it has been a drastic decline at every level of preschool education. Starting with that there have been no renewed institutions of pre-school education, through a lack of strategy, through non-recognition of target groups within the age of children, especially between three and five years. When I say that, we should keep in mind, that and the people need to know, and the parents, that the biggest investment in education is just the beginning of preschool education. Why do I say that? The very fact that children of that age show extraordinary talents from three to five years of age, which is Serbia's future treasure, is the waste of different talents from scientific areas, and that it is not recognised and that the state is not investing in it, it is a big problem, because in later showing overall development of education it will be able to reduce the effect and to, say experts, 17 times, because we are on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, through these charts, we have seen it. What interests us Serbian radicals is this, given the heterogeneity and geographical location of individual and rural environments that have not been developed, what will you do to make sure that the remaining total number of children not covered by pre-school education are included, as well as marginalised groups? I mean Roma children, above all, who are not in a situation that, unfortunately, still, with other Serbian citizens attend preschool institutions, because according to the strategy that was done, which I had seen back in 2011, the number of children that will not be covered by preschool education is even 75,000. Since we only have a year until that period, what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your ministry do to improve it. Again, it is most important in the education strategy that everything starts with preschool education, quality and above all so-called. short programs, where children are recognized by extraordinary talents.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51668	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51669	Let me just give you an answer and an answer to Veronica before that. At the time when the system law was passed, when it was written, we had a much more important thing to do, a new national framework of plans and programmes, because it wasn't left to us properly. In order for us to be able to do that, at that point, we had a state of play on the ground that records were kept on foot, and it just started electronically. So, if we waited until we got to capacity and at that speed to train people and equip, we couldn't predict that it would be faster than it is. That's why we left it to be run in the old way, but also in the new way. Since this process has been accelerated, we simply wanted to give the advantage of this one more efficient model now. What you asked, it's one of the main objectives of our ministry, entering a new cycle of strategy by 2030. We are currently working on the realisation of a $50 million loan project involving 30 local self-government at the moment. Here we go mostly to component one - building new buildings. Certainly, the environments that at least took in children from three to five and a half, six years of age are preferred. So there's an advantage, so by those standards, given and of course Roma children. It's part of component three that refers to the great need to explain in these environments how important that cycle of stay of children in school is for at least four hours, because that early literacy is precisely the goal of, no matter who is able to guard them, having that part. A presentation of the early development programme, one of the top three, was completed, even UNICEF gave the best possible marks. What's very important is that it's just an important start, because it's very important for us to continue this trend. In a month's time, there will be an act on the network and we certainly see that because of the poor birthivity of primary school buildings, we use it for single-minded work, but also to expand the needs of preschool institutions. These are absolute priorities, so the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has been working very hard on this for the last year and considers it one of the main objectives of the new strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51670	The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51671	You didn't exactly satisfy what was true in this answer. You say for what reason, when you passed, you proposed basic law, you also saw this electronic system. Yes, but you could have predicted it as an alternative and now you don't have to change the law, like, you remember, when I told you about the electronic logs and then I told you that you got into this job, and you didn't have to change the state of the field, you told me that I was wrong, so I guess after that you found out the situation on the ground, so you said yourself that you were going to fully introduce the electronic journals in early 2020. Trust us when we talk. We're politicians, but we're people who know exactly what's going on in the field. Believe me, Minister, often much better than the ministers. They may show you a little bit of the pink light on the ground, and we are personally on the ground and we know perfectly in every area what the situation is in the field and it is always good when ministers listen to us, when the government listens to us and when our amendments are accepted. They're never mean. We are always well-intentioned, not because we protect the minister and the government, but because we want, if one area is regulated legally, to make it as precise as possible. Of course, Natasha will probably say this in her replica about what her debate was about. There is a huge problem with the existence of preschools in rural areas. There's no village development, as the government and the president of the state are talking about, if we don't start with preschool institutions. So every village, a little bigger, has to have a preschool facility, a post office, a school, a church, a meat office, without it, just a story, an ambulance, a veterinary station... (President: Bring the end. I'm done, Mr. Arsic. You have to end all of this by asking the Minister to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51672	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51673	Mr. Minister, what I still want to suggest in this replica, which is in that part that you may not have fully interpreted my initial exposure, is the cost-sharing. We're all here from different backgrounds. There are fellow SRS MPs coming from underdeveloped municipalities here. Which are categorized in groups two, three and four, so there may even be a fifth, because only the first group in Serbia, these are developed municipalities, has favourable infrastructure, has a situation, a little better in the villages, etc. You'll agree, it's not the same for a child from Kurzumli and a child from Belgrade. I don't think there should be any difference. The state should set aside the budget, a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party, from 6.5m to 7m euros for the three-to-four-hour programme, to make it available for each child in Serbia. Because, like the child's allowance and all the other rights arising from the rights of the child, which is what the Constitution requires, a category acquired, so we can't make a selection and let's say -- well, that local self-government doesn't have enough resources, because they single out 80%, 20% go to parent burden. And what are we going to do for those parents who are poor and who don't even have a part-time program? So let's make a targeted strategy to help underdeveloped municipalities and what has been potential for Radet's co-worker to introduce the possibility in every village, at least this shorter, from three to four hours. Because you know what, according to this report that I have in front of me, between 65 and 177 even thousands of children live in these municipalities of groups two, three and four. So they're not covered, and they need help.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51674	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51675	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with previous speakers that education is a very important activity, not only for today but for the future. This is best pictured by the famous Athenian pedagogogogogist Plato, who said in his part “State”: “The state will not be harmed if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed. But if a teacher misbehaves children, future generations, he'll be ignorant. “ The Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, had one of the best school systems in the world until it came to power by the former regime until 2000. Our students finished colleges that were recognizable from Russia to the United States, from Africa to Northern Europe. And then she came to power in 2000 by the former regime party Đilas-Jerjemic-Tadic, who together with Gaš Knezevic, Ana Pesikan and others introduced our education system into the deepest abyss in the history of education and teaching ideas in Serbia. When the Serbian Progressive Party won power and elected Mr. Aleksandar Vukic as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, he knew there was no modernisation of Serbia without education and education. That's why he said in this high house, and I quote what's most important, which I've written a lot of pages about -- is education reform, because that's the most important thing for us, because it's human capital for the future, and we have to learn and learn. It's a finished quote. President Vukic was aware that without knowledge there was no progress on Serbia. I am sure the president had in mind the famous English philosopher Francis Bekon who said – Knowledge is power. A grain of knowledge breaks harder than steel. When the Serbian Progressive Party came to power and set out to modernise Serbia, then the president, the ministry and the SNS put the entire education system under fire and in walking, Mr Minister, which you are doing today, changed what was quickly imposed, which was dysfunctional and pedagogical unsustainable. The internal reform of the school until it comes to the power of the SNS, and especially you, Mr. Minister, has not been implemented and is being implemented today. I'd like our political opponents to sit here today to deny this and make their proposal. The president knew, since he certainly read Libnica, that Serbia's modernisation could not be implemented without training. Leibnic, a German philosopher, said: “Give me education and we will change Europe’s character in a short time than we have in a century. ” That's why we from the Serbian Progressive Party gave education and education a prominent place in our programming documents. President Vukic knew well that healthy society is based on a healthy family. Working on the country's economic recovery from the ambis to which the party of the former regime, Jeremic, Tadic and Djilas, had to also take into account the restoration of the family and its functions, which makes you, gentlemen of the ministers, the two of you, a full couple today. Most of the burden of the general economic and social crisis has fallen upon the woman's mother, who must be brought up. Women were the first to lose their jobs, left by our political opponents, and thus without economic independence. This resulted in professional inauguration and economic dependence on women. Depression and frustration merely manifested a state where the mother-wife pushed herself without her own guilt, but with many negative implications for raising our children. A mother-wife is a hero today. Today she is struggling with her own dissatisfaction, insufficient family budget, raising children and preserving marriage. You, gentlemen, from the party of the former regime, Tadic, Jeremic, Gilas, instead of opening jobs and hiring your wife-mother, you closed your jobs and you drove your mother to corners of the street to sell cigarettes because it was the only way to feed the family. Right, gentlemen of the former regime? Instead of children being proud of their mother, what she deserved, they are ashamed and bypassing the streets where their mother sells smuggled cigarettes to them. The mother was forced to smuggle, to run from the police, and she had to teach the children not to do the same. I ask you, gentlemen of the former regime, how did you imagine it? The Serbian Progressive Party is opening jobs and has reduced unemployment from 26% to 11%. It is very important for teachers and teachers, Mr. Minister, to be trained in pedagogical training. You've made a huge contribution here, and you're doing it today. In the end, one of the walkers, the professor, deeply offended you, but not you, but himself. He said some kind of teacher, he's gonna tell me... Let me tell you what a teacher means in the end. Dear Professor, who you criticized teachers, and you have a doctoral degree, teach children a number, put letters in order, read them, write, delete, understand, know, only a small part of what the teacher really is. I don't mean to say what a teacher does because being a teacher isn't a job. To be a teacher is to love, to be a teacher is to feel, to be a teacher is simply to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51676	Thank you, Professor. A colleague of mine, Mirjana Dragaš, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51677	Dear President, Mr. Ministers and Culture and Education, I want to be involved in this debate in such a way that I would certainly contribute and praise to everything that has been done and in the system of education in the last few years, but at the same time in what is done in the Ministry of Culture itself and in the context of the culture and tradition of our people. When it comes to changes and changes that occur systemically in the area of education, it is particularly important, I believe, to introduce and start the very existence of a strategy that clearly sets certain objectives. Systemic laws within these processes lay the foundations of each individual segment, but when it comes to development, of course, I would like to commend all the efforts that are going towards expanding the scope of children at all levels of education, starting from preschool to higher education, but of course, underlining not only the quantity and availability of it but also the quality. On this occasion, I would like to remind myself that, of course, for many years, our experts who go abroad are well known and acknowledged there, however, I do not think that there is any need for any reform or analysis of education that is taking place, to analyse what is basic and what is something that should not be changed and that should possibly not be undermined under the system of the Bologna system, which is present in our education, which many experts, including students and students themselves, have said that there is no appropriate quality in certain segments. In that sense, I believe that a diversification of what is important for education in the right quality in relation to some forms that have a bad impact on quality and value needs in the next reform processes, in any case change and go towards our profession and knowledge remaining recognizable, both in the country and in the world. When talking about a system of education at all, I think that in what needs to be united in the next period, we should think about the forms that all those experts who are abroad can associate, i.e. include in education systems at least for a certain period of time, because if we go from about five million Serbs, most often high-quality and significant in their segment of work, there are in the white world, and there are five to seven million of us in Serbia, as there are in the country, that unifying one and the other capacities in terms of expanding education, expanding the methods of work, expanding the overall connection between our profession and sciences with world systems, would give us a much greater importance and a new quality, because it would be included in the systemic changes that otherwise occur with us. Another sentence about this, I would like to point out, of course, and praise the efforts of the Ministry of Culture, which has been fostering the quality and traditions of our institutions, this time brought the Law on the Serbian Literature Association to protect one of our oldest institutions, but also to commend all those measures that have been adopted in the previous years, and here I will especially highlight the protection of Kolarce's duties, Vukov and Dosite, starting with that of Dositej himself, as the first Serbian minister of education 200 years ago, saying: "The books, books, not bells and pronounches" and in fact was the introduction of what system-permanent education is for life, which is now absolutely becoming a modern and demand for modern profession and science. In this regard, I believe that the co-operation of these two ministries in the next period is in the forms of this work, as well as the cultivation of languages and letters and our overall literacy and the cultivation of culture and tradition of invaluable importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51678	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the bill on preschool education and education. It can be concluded from the reasoning of the law that this law is adopted for reasons to bring some provisions in line with the roof law on the basis of the education and education system. I looked at this law a little bit, and I saw there that one of the basics, or major newspapers, that the records were kept for 10 or five years, depending on what kind of data it was. These are too small reasons, too trivial reasons to pass a law, while I personally believe, given the state of government in our preschool education, that more attention should be paid to how to solve the accumulated problems. Whether data will be stored for five or ten years or not at all, it is not that important, but you know well from the ministry and Mr. Minister that, especially in major cities, the problem of housing and enrolment of children in preschool institutions is extremely large. I come from Nis and I know that in the city of Nis this problem is very pronounced and I know a lot of my friends, and party friends have been talking to me just for helping on this subject. I want to say that local self-government is trying everything in its power, but really this problem has been inherited since before, I can't blame this ministry and this minister for such a situation, but things have to be solved faster. Well, things have been moved, I have to admit, because there's been an evening of the status of private and social kindergartens, or preschool institutions, but it's still not enough, and I think the most attention needs to be paid to this. Whether things are perfected or not, it's not that important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51680	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51681	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, reading your biography when you were a candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Technology, that's when I thought there was a light coming for education. Your references and what you did pointed to this, however, this bill gives me a completely different impression. You look more like the Minister of Cosmetics than I thought back then. How and for what? By the changes proposed in this law, my colleagues have already spoken, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 where I have proposed, because here you have said that the sublaw will be passed over a period of two years, after the entry into force of this law. Our proposal was to reduce that time period to three months. The government, because it has not accepted this amendment, explains that this is the deadline, and that they may do these sublaws in the earlier period. I'm sure that's not how it's gonna be. Based on this, I'd say you're more comfortable with some cosmetics ministry than the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The fact that you said life is faster than the law, you are now denying yourself, and the person who is a minister in a particular ministry can be the person who was dealing with essential research, can be the person who is a politician, but you also have professional services that must account more when making the bill. We know about these changes, that after a year new ones are being proposed, and then what happens if we have a deadline to pass sublegal acts for two years? You will not be able to pass any sublaws, and there is likely to be a new draft law on amendments to the Preschool Education Act in the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51682	Thank you, colleague Peric. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vjerica Rade, Natasa Jovanovic, Ružica Nikolic, Nikola Savic, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Seselj, Aleksandra Belačić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Petar Jojic, Nemanja Sarović, Dubravko Bojic, Marijan Rističević and Vladimir Orlic on the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51683	Thank you. Just before we listened to a colleague, Mark Atlagic, until the part where the current president of the state appeared in the story, I was under the impression that Marko Atlagic was speaking from the time he was a member of the SRS. Now, unlike him, we have remained consistent in our insistence that basic education and education must indeed come from the root to change, because this is the basis for every society's development. You know, the fact that someone destroys the factory, which someone destroys industry, production, etc., is for every conviction, not just political, but some responsible government can always make up for something like that in less or more time. But when generations of poor education and education are lost, then it is a serious problem and since 2000 it has been working in Serbia. You know why? Because those who were more or less in Serbia's interest in Serbia's education are children, people, so that they are formally educated and essentially uneducated. And then it's the easiest thing to manipulate. Now I have not uttered any wisdom, but it is something that is common knowledge. Therefore, the problem is that from that, Gassa Knezevic, on the other hand, no minister, has ever been properly approached by any government to solve this problem. He reminded his colleague, Atlagic, here I will underline, which would say, what Gašo Knezevic was doing, as the first one, after 2000, the minister, indeed, not only did he propose and what bad laws were adopted, but there were many scandalous things. I remind the public, first of all, that he had organized some schoolboys in nature at the time with the kids from elementary school, and then she was one of the games that girls threw bras to boys and so some of the scary things that serious people were disgusted about back then. What's happening today, Minister Sarcevic, is similar. These kind of current seminars, or I don't know what you're calling them right now, which are mandatory for all teachers, are mostly something that disgusts serious teachers. I have to use that term, with less education, with much less years than those who give lectures, without any day's work experience in education, and they organize some workshops. Then, I spoke once, Minister Sarčević, when the teachers of Serbian language from Belgrade were organized in New Belgrade, so when a girl came, who could hardly possibly have finished college or had a degree at a kiosk, so she had to talk to the white gloves, those serious people who came here to maybe hear something smart, she said – bye-bye comrades, and this is how children should be talked. So, kids at school need to learn. You, Minister Sarčević, have finished high school in some system that you all are now attacking. Do you have any objections to your education? I don't have mine. I ended it in a period, under quotes, a poor education system, but I claim that I have learned much more and that I am much more educated than those who are now finishing some instant colleges and who formally have diplomas. Of course, in order to reach the university, basic school must be passed. Now what's the objection we made through this amendment? You said that in the first grade of primary education and education the student is assessed by a descriptive assessment from the mandatory subject-matter of electoral programmes and activities. I don't know if you know what's going on with those descriptive estimates? You've allowed teachers to do whatever they want and then let's say that the child has a messy notebook and then some smart teacher, and that happens in New Belgrade at a school, a smart teacher draws a pig and says that the student is probably a pig, because his notebook is messy. He doesn't know why his notebook is messy, he doesn't know what conditions that child lives in, he doesn't know if the perpetrators may have cut off his electricity, so he's learning under candles, he doesn't know how poor he is, even though Ana Brnabic says that extreme visions of poverty have been eradicated in Serbia, he's visiting Serbia, I'm surprised that something like this, while she's sitting in the cabinet, even if she said something like that, but now that she's visiting Serbia, something like this shouldn't happen to her. So, if you're staying at these descriptive estimates, you ministers, the ministry has to or should determine some flowers there, I don't know, some nice things, not that a child gets trauma because it's a messy notebook. It certainly takes a teacher to stimulate him to keep his next assignment on the orderly sheets of the notebooks, so they don't get ripped up, not to be turned away, etc. No, but instead of stimulating the child to be better, he kills the child to the point that he'll escape class tomorrow, because where to go to the teacher who tells him he's a pig. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51684	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51685	Mr. Minister, the collapse of the primary education system and many primary schools in Serbia began after 2000, when the Minister of Education, Knezevic, in 2001, signed a decision to reorganise the school networks in Serbia. It opened up the possibility that local self-governments that were mostly ruled by these same dosmanias, which are now saying that they would better arrange the state just to give them the opportunity, as nothing is good, to literally destroy over, is that true, Mr. Minister, over 30% of primary schools in Serbia. They closed schools where they were marking almost 100, 150-year-old jubilee, and it is a real happiness that one of them failed to close and destroy it, which is the basic school "Prota Stevan Popovic" in Cumic, which is one of the oldest schools in Serbia that marks soon the anniversary of 230 years and that my mom also attended, because she was born in that place and which, even after the war at the time, when she went to school, was a visual character. As possible now, here I am asking you that this school in the village of Cumić, which is truly famous that children from Russia and other parts of the world are coming to see how it is done, has ethical, moral and all the other standards that it needs to have, and above all national recognition. I guess that's the basis of it all, to teach children what the Serbian people are, like all other Serbian citizens in schools that attend other languages, I mean national minorities, that we have such programs, and no, so it all started then, and now we need to correct it with hard pain. That is why it is necessary, and we suggest that Serbian radicals, in the next period your ministry does one strategy that will now cover a period of ten years, because they have destroyed everything, destroyed everything, many schools have been able to have children without the wet knots they need to use, that they have no physical halls, that the money has been stolen, that the various projects that they have sent and received from various funds have been spent without purpose, and now children in schools suffer new generations. The other problem is, in addition to the situation in school institutions, primary schools, and equipment and everything is the relationship between participants and teachers. What we Serbian radicals are constantly pointing out is that through the ministry's engagement and above all the teaching staff, the role of the school, which should be primarily educational, needs to be restored. She's not that now. Because, kids, here, a colleague was talking about what was going on with the kids. Instead of being the same as in a real family where children are taught the highest moral values, we now have a situation that in certain schools teachers cannot handle children or vice versa, that children complain about teachers who are not adequately trained. What is most important is the fact, Mr. Minister, and it takes a lot of work to do, that after more than 50 years of the election of compulsory primary education in Serbia, we have a lack of students in schools, because of poverty, because these marginalised groups are not involved, primarily the national Roma minority, to whom more should be dedicated to the state, children distracted in development, children from poor parts of Serbia who still do not finish primary school. According to the list that was made a few years ago, 85% of the generation goes out with primary school education, means all eight years, and 15% doesn't. That should be your goal and work on it in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51686	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51687	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the debate goes deeply on education and education. I agree with all those who realized that as a country in 2000, we threw out, so to speak, education from school, not just from school, but from society in general. It was one project away from us, but it was a project. I've been thinking for a long time, as an educational worker, that a bum or a beginner, as some call it, in the first grade of elementary school should look. We, gentlemen Members of the People and gentlemen of the Ministry and educational workers, must return basic civilization values to our educational and educational system. I'm just going to say three sentences that, in my opinion, should be the basis of textbooks, i.e. first-class bursars, and later pedagogists, teachers work out these three sentences. The first sentence should be: no work, no life. Second sentence - I love my parents. Third sentence - I love my country. And the fourth, I add the fourth – I love all the well-intentioned people of the world. So, our strategy, which was written, which the predecessors wrote and participated, is outdated, that Minister Sarcevic knows well, and I must say, gentlemen Members of Parliament and respected parents, that the creators of a huge amount of money have taken into account the writing, and therefore today they demonstrate on the streets of Belgrade, not to mention Ana Pesikan, Tinde Kovac Cerovic, psychologists. Please, let us be clear who we are as pedagogical professions, every school with a certain number of departments should have not psychologists, but educators. Psychologist comes to five schools, psychologists deal with "extreme cases" etc. Dear People's MPs, we deal with violence at school. It's a replacement thesis that was introduced in 2000. We need to deal with education in school, in parenting home, in the street, in the congregation of this and all the factors of education and education. Violence is the result of a lack of questioning, and psychologists teach us, especially psychologists clinicians, reverse situations. Do you know when there was the thesis that every school of minors should have a psychologist? Come on, guess what, honourable Members of the people. Educational workers right in the voice who are now listening to this transmission say -- when Boris Tadic came to the president of the Republic of Serbia. Since he's a psychologist, on that line, and we students of pedagogy know what pedagoggy is, and what psychology is, and that's why we deal with the consequences, not the causes. The causes are pedagogicals, and the consequences are violence in school, in family, on the street, etc. Let's look at basic pedagogical civilization values when we get on the city bus as our students behave not only, but also our parents. An elementary school teacher teaches every student that he has to work without stealing, and when he comes home, what do their parents tell them? Give me the answer to that. So when someone mentioned the strategy, they took huge millions, and that strategy was lagging behind. We in this tall home in the first term warned about it, but it went hard. Today, the signatories of Tinde Kovac Cerovic sign an appeal, and she is the creator of it and one of the main culprits that education is not available in schools and society. I'm advocating the pedagogation of schools and society in general. Without it, we will find it difficult to realise the planned modernisation of Serbia. We will, but it's a lot harder. Let's get our education back to school, get our education back on the streets, get our education back in society, get our education back to this high house. Well, we're not gonna tell lies, we're gonna tell the truth, but we're gonna make arguments. And, please, I'm finishing up, we've heard these days that no criticism is allowed, especially from the gentlemen of one part of the press. Gentlemen of the press, criticism is allowed and desirable, but it is based on the truthfulness of the facts. Is that right or not? Are you, gentlemen of the press, doing this? It seems very little to me. Therefore, we cannot be false. We can ask. We're still asking, as journalists, and we're giving an answer. They don't let one part of it get answered at all. Let me finish. I'm in favour of full pedagogation of educational institutions. Mr. Minister, we had a problem calling the Preschool Law this way, calling it education and education. I insisted that it be called for three years back. First he raises a child, then he educates himself. We educators know that very well. But we also went back to basic education and education words, it wasn't, you know that well, as a good and experienced practitioner and theorist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51688	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51689	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and the amendments proposed by this bill are not essential, but they are cosmetic and many of the solutions proposed are to the detriment of the students themselves. You and this law passed two years ago and the biggest problem is that education laws in Serbia change too often and these changes are getting worse and worse in school. Today, there should certainly be a draft law on textbooks, which should be changed if we want to improve the quality of education in Serbia. In our textbooks that are still current you can find anything, there are too many inappropriate contents and we believe that this law should be changed urgently and that textbooks should be unified if we want future generations of students and students not to be destroyed. When the amendment to Article 1 of this Bill is concerned, it prescribes the success of students and the assessment, we believe it is necessary for the evaluation to be numbered, to abolish the descriptive evaluation in the first grade of primary school, in order to avoid the case of "pig", of which Radeta spoke. What I said was that the changes that are at the expense of students are also defined by this member of the Law, where he says – a student who regularly attends school and performs school duties, and there is no prescribed number of grades in the mid-term teacher is required to evaluate at a particularly organized hour during the half-year with the presence of a class elder, educator or psychologist. We would ask you, Minister, why is a student who regularly attends classes, who regularly attends classes in this case damaged because a teacher or teacher for certain reasons did not find time to review him and evaluate him?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51690	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the foundations of education and education. As I was talking about the previous law and about my previous amendment, amendments and additions to this law are done primarily because of compliance with the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I noticed that an amendment was made to Article 71 of this Law, under which a student passed a class exam from a mandatory course, or an election program. Here, as with the previous law, the way you keep your records is again prescribed. To tell you the truth, I'm not going to say that this isn't important, this is all important, but we have brought many times in this assembly in this House amendments and additions to these laws from the field of education, but I haven't seen anywhere get caught up in the essence and the main problems that exist in our education. Do any of you, gentlemen of the ministry headed by the minister, wonder why such a bad condition is in our basic education and why our founding fathers from generation to generation come out of primary school with less and less knowledge? That's the crucial and crucial problem of our education. I've worked 35 years in high school and I can compare it based on experience and life practice, today we have a situation where functionally illiterate students come to high school. It's a systemic problem, which is one of the biggest problems of this society, and I think that this thing should be given the most attention, not some trivial other thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51692	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51693	We have suggested that Article 1 paragraph 16 be deleted, and this applies to Article 61 of the basic law. It says that a student who regularly attends classes, performs school duties, and there is no prescribed number of grades, in the midterm, the teacher is required to attend a particularly organized class during the course of the midterm, with the presence of a class elder, or a educator, or psychologist. Mr. Minister, you're often so interactive here when you're in the National Assembly, it would be good, if it's not difficult and it's not a problem, to explain here what this newspaper is about and what you wanted to do with this because the student is not responsible for anything. Otherwise, this article in the 61st basic law speaks of the way in which students are evaluated and some other details related to the student’s assessment. Since there is no student responsibility here, which is why you bring him into an unfair position compared to other students whose teachers regularly teach and regularly manage to evaluate that student. Maybe you have some reason for this, we couldn't recognize him, we don't see him at all, and this should be accepted, I mean this amendment. In an education system where there are a lot of problems, and you hear this from all your colleagues talking about this, and it's certainly also known to you from years of practice in the education system, you as a minister now that this is not a good legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51694	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51695	Here the SRS suggests that the 17th position in this article be deleted, because it is something that is meant, which is logically, an adequate substitute for a teacher who cannot perform his job, and it is adequately necessary to look for a professional replacement and there is complete logic of things, because he cannot teach physics, to replace a teacher someone who has not finished physics. What's the point? Oh, yeah, you can have anything. You can have your diploma in 24 hours, and when your diplomas are taken away, you have knowledge. That's it. It's a phenomenon with you. The point is next. We are witnessing that the education system determines more, that is, more the IMF, than the government, or the resolution ministry, has. We know well that the IMF strictly prescribes what a network of schools should look like. It is, of course, based on available financial resources that determine and allow the IMF. We have a system in basic education, and the number of schools is determined as much as there is money. The number of employees in certain schools, as much as there is money and let's make some sense of things, that the IMF, the officer who takes care of the return of funds provided by world banks, determines in some way, that it is within the available financial means, but they move on and say – in the class there can be a maximum number of students to be financially effective. What difference does it make? No one has explained that to this day. There are past periods, I can see there are nostalgics here, just to tell them that Tito died, from the old days when Stipe Shuvar was bringing in so-called. reforms in school, so he ruined generations and generations. There is a later, after October 5th, when we were convinced that these were European liquids, European standards. The other day, ministers, we were just talking about two examples of secondary schools, where Serbia, or the ministry, and thus the government, remained traditionally in favour of education, when it comes to mathematical high school and when it comes to High School "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj". Jovanović Zmaj High School was the subject of transformation in education, so they invented everything and everything, to be linguistic, to be natural-mathematic, to be like this, until they returned what was in the nature of that gymnasium, to have elite students attend that high school for their success and to discover future talents for different fields, for mathematics and natural sciences and social sciences. The mathematical high school in Belgrade, which we are all proud of, ministers, no single reform can be said freely, has not accepted, when it comes to IMF suggestions, but has continued with the old plan and programme, accepting all these doactic methods applied in modern times. They're not immune to it either, but they kept, thanks to that, first of all, to the teaching staff, when it comes to the people who work in that high school and kept the criteria there. We had our criteria dropped the moment, Mr. Minister, when the schools began to teach so-called. Sorbonnes. The Sorbonnes are the ones who taught practice, the practical teaching, and then overnight promoted to teachers of technical areas, and ended up like these fellow Members of ours, dear in this assembly, through the night finishing colleges, mastering, doctoring, what they were doing. It was a political one once in Rijeka, it knows Atlagic, maybe he had someone close to him, and when you ask what ended someone, he says politically, and that's where every conversation stopped, because it didn't know what that school was for, and when he finished that school, what a man was qualified for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51696	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51697	I'd just like to explain that this series after these two high school schools, which have really separated from all high schools in the way they present the state abroad and in all possible competitions and measures, has a lot of similarities, but they're different. There's a different high school in Vojvodina that's really brought a lot in as a newspaper, keeping the core of that high school we call national. Just for the general public to know, we started reforming high school a year and a half ago, since it hasn't even been done in decades before Shuvar. After Shuvar was returned only the model that was before him, with a little make-up change that technical education had been shut down and IT started, starting with a very modest beginning in 1999 only in the first grade of high school. We've been looking at all our high schools, all our professors, our directors, and we've come up with a common book that says what we should do. What the public may know less, when it comes to education, this House is informed, Chapters 25 and 26 are completely autonomous and we don't have to copy or follow anyone's model. This is what people in the new National Educational Council meeting, which is led specifically by the director of Dragon Jovina High School, are traditionally defined and we have then concluded that all the important traditional values of these good schools are preserved and that we should introduce some newspapers that are based on international graduation programmes. To avoid easy grades, we are already working intensively on the director's licenses, working on a project of state graduation where everything will be completely external and otherwise business, so these changes have already begun. What's important, we're sorting out our own domain. You know for a fact that six months ago, we formed a unit in the National Programmes Institute to improve education and education. We have suffered some criticism from the region, because it has been done together with Republika Srpska through the Law on parallel ties and we have signed it. Our goal is to get all the other schools, students in the region, above all, and diaspora under that program of work. You know the reform programmes started in first and fifth grade and first high school. This next year will include the second, sixth and second high schools. In a short time, we will succeed in putting all three cycles of education on their feet, just keeping our tradition and values. It requires, of course, extensive teacher training for new and different models. I'm sorry to hear from my colleague. Sure, there's a big system where there's bad examples. We react wherever we know that this example is, because at least I'm a traditionalist and I insist on how a teacher should look, that he's neat, that he's raised, and that he's treated like that. There's a case. You mentioned school. That school won the World Prize this year. So it's really kept in mind that those values come back and reason. You can't do something that's been kicked and pushed and devalued for decades so quickly. Of course, I appeal and I keep saying that even the person in the education has put forth a great burden these last two and a half years, because we expect that the Law on public sector wages will give the shade it needs, and these are the paying classes that will reward quality work. Then we can also talk about why someone will not have that category, because his work is public and his work will be told by both parents and people from the local community and anyone else. But we're trying, at least what you said. We're totally on that path, and we don't have to listen to anyone. Indeed, personally, I think that we make very autonomous decisions, that national bodies, such as the National Alliance for Higher, National Association for Education, are very autonomous. Their sessions are public, recorded. You can look at the materials. No one's salting their minds, I'm the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51698	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51699	Mr. Minister, the accent is on the issue of financial resources. We are limited here as a society, because these financial resources are the most directly decided by this International Monetary Fund. We have the most direct selection through the level of funding received by educators. Secondly, we ourselves try, after October 5th, to meet those who wish to make such unnatural or unfavourable selections. We have a fully humiliated level or status as an educator. You know, you remember well, not to return some time machine, you well remember that as after primary school it was meant to be who was going to be in high school, who was going to be in technical schools, and who was doing it, based on the previously invested work and the quantity of knowledge, so it was known that they were teachers in high schools, technical schools, etc. So that was some, uh, conditionally speaking, natural selection. But what you said here the other day was clear and society accelerated such selectivity, because the thing of prestige was that he was a high school professor or a technical school. It's a matter of prestige, and we have a situation here, and you know it well, that students who end up, who qualify, train for educators, simply come into the situation that technological excesses are due to limited funding reform in the education network. That's the problem. You are simply in a situation, no matter how much you want and how much you want, you have tried to introduce in education some principles that are generally accepted principles, even in this Western Europe, that you have to listen to this International Monetary Fund. That's the point. It's the financials. They dictate what you do. We have in rural areas because of a small number of students the explanation that we can't have an educational worker because it's not cost-effective financially, and we have people who are written there, who live in these villages, who can give adequate knowledge, description, basic education to those students, those few children that are left in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51700	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51701	I'm sorry. It's not about controversy, but maybe I left it out to say a little while ago. The network act hasn't been done in decades, and it's time for the state to know what it has. We have institutes that are choking. Researchers work square and a half, and we have institutes where you have that researcher has a hundred and some squares, and he doesn't need it, starting from day care to institute. Our goal is to use the extra space rationally, as if you have a reduction in the number of elementary school students, it's logical to have preschool students, because they're closest. What would they join together for? So the network act is no force. We gave all the local self-government. They're running out of time now, because the state has to bring it in by March 19th to get creatively close to that story. I've talked to a lot of people. Here, I'll also see the Nis people from Monday just to solve these situations as the terrain requires. You can't build a structure in the Gerdapian ravine like I don't know where in Vojvodina. You have to make sure it's a border post, whether it's a depopulation, whether it's enclave. So, there's no going down there at all, that there's no intention of doing anything wrong. Unfortunately, Natalie killed us. That's a different story. We look to make the best use of the quality situation in education. We've launched a project. A hundred schools are launching a single-minded project. So he sends a lot of signals, lots of good pedagogical messages. If the kids are up to half past five at school, they're definitely not on the street. There's less violence, there's less drugs, there's less anything else. All those teachers who, in that old formula, would be technological surpluses, are now not, because someone has to work with half a half a dozen of them and now we've given to see the creativity of the people themselves on the ground, so they don't just have to be sent in and brought in, what they think is important. It's certainly important that they do homework at school. We certainly insist on rebuilding the school's kitchen. They have to eat at that place at school. We certainly see that parent schools are better exploited, and that is one quality rationalization that is currently keeping fit. The village will not be preserved if that last student leaves it. You know, there's got to be another story about Natalie. However, we show these gestures, first of all, in Serbia that there are no cuts of princes and morals. So far she's been, unfortunately, and there's been a lot of manipulation. I could have approached the story of that price and the way the rules were reported so critically, that maybe a hundred directors could have been replaced, but that's not fair, as you said about that student who now has to get special status. Life, however, makes exceptions. So you have a child who's been sick for a long time. The law always said that if he wasn't a third of the class, he remained unrated, in the class exam, but it was always the clause that said – if he was able to give positive answers and to achieve positive success, the school allowed him to do so. That's what happened before. It's always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51702	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51703	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed a number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which have been brought by the former government. So that's my practice. With this amendment, I want to support the government and its quest to regulate the area of education. I used my right to do it. That's what opposition colleagues who are here also use. That right also has the right to use Djordje Vukadinovic, a.k.a. Djordje Vlah. During the day they refuse to do all the work in parliament, while they are in the so-called To the parallel parliament, there is a loud criticism in the National Assembly that according to their Rules of Procedure, which they have brought, we abuse the right and we propose amendments. It's our right as much as theirs. If they want to participate and submit amendments, they submit them in the same way that we do. No privilege, I'm telling the viewers, for no privilege the ruling party has in relation to the opposition. The fact that they decided to boycott the work of the National Assembly along with a Beijing duck is their problem. I want them to participate here, to look for a common best solution, to oppose us, but I also want to exercise my right, and I don't want to jeopardize their right. To call as Gjorge Vukadinovic the National Assembly and the MPs who work here, who work hard to make amendments and try to improve the law by looking from their corner, it is the government who wants or does not want to accept the amendments, eventually the Assembly makes a decision whether to amend the amendments' laws or not. Whether certain opposition parties will participate, that is their right. They can handle the amendments but they don't have to, but they don't have the right to insult those who do their job here. We've come up with crazy positions for those who don't work to criticize those who work. They're talking about the collapse of an institution. Who's talking about the collapse of an institution? People's MPs who used to be government speak. They say those who did not enter the Assembly in the election lists, but three MPs from three different parties entered the quarter, added two or three drops of George Vlah and went to the fifth organisation and they talk about the collapse of institutions, those who, while they were in power, held text messages, combinations, what -- you want to vote on me for this, I'll tell you about it; and SMS messages ruled the state of Serbia. That time has passed. Since 2013, I don't think any such government has been held. And those who don't want to work today say the Assembly is a mockery. That's what Djordje Vukadinovic says. Gentlemen, those of you who don't want to work, if the Assembly is a mockery, why are you getting paid? Why do you want to take personal income from the mockery? If you think it's a mockery, then I won't have any income from that mockery. But no, we want to have a parallel assembly, but we're being paid by this Assembly that we don't work in, but we're going to work against that Assembly somewhere outside some embassies, in some strange delegations, we're going to say that this country is not free to be declared "freedom houses" and some organizations as freedom fighters. None of those freedom fighters are. There's no way out. They're an obstacle. They're not the answer, they're the problem. They want to make themselves think they're as bright as the end of a tunnel. They're not the light, they're the blackest darkness. I already said they're not the answer, they're the problem. They're not the way they want to show the people, the Kobajagi signing some kind of contract. Overall, they gather between 0.1 and 0.2% of the electoral body, and they want to show it to some revolutionary force, where the finely smelled, well-trained, well-trained, full, drunk, those who eat cancers, etc. They want to deal with those who say – they peel sandwiches, they're not showered enough, several times a day, they're not company enough, they don't have prestigious deodorants and scents. So it's the rebellion of various actors, the rebellion of those who live well against those who torture to settle all accounts and fulfill their obligations in the state. Those who torture most protect the state. Those who don't torture, various actors, and I'm asking for information from the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Education could help me, once told, and bring me data as much as Kojo got millions, not dinars, how many millions, an actor who threatens to leave this country? It will be an irreparable loss for the Republic of Serbia's budget, as there will be no one to take 20 million for a film called "The Stado". I guess he'd like to be some kind of chop. There's no herd that'll agree to keep him safe. Have them tell me how much Belogrlic's got in the last two or three years? How much did he get from the "Film Centre of Serbia"? According to my record, which isn't official, he's got $850,000. You can't even get the official data because there are those who walk with these at the Film Centre and don't let the data come to the public as much as Kojo, as Srdjan Golubovic, as much as Belogrlic, who is the boss of Serbian cinematography, this cinema is worse than reality. Ninety percent of that cinema he calls art is not art. There's such a curse that reality is simply a beautiful story to some of their movies. For those movies, the state gives money. They were looking for money for the film "Mezica", but does anyone here in the Assembly know what the store in the film "Mezica" is? I said they want to contribute to the Albanian side, make it difficult for Serbia's negotiating position and I stand behind it. That is what I told you, gentlemen ministers, that those who threatened us on the outside and those who stole us from the inside, that they would join together and try to destroy the state of Serbia by trying to replace the legally elected power with illegal means. Do you know what the shop in the film "Mezica" is? And there they tried to get the money out of those who sucked, over a billion this year are scheduled to make those films, where Bjeloglic and Kojo get the majority of the money. Do you know what a movie store is? As a Serbian doctor from the Clinical Centre, I had one MP who complained here why the state had not added more money for the film, how the Serbian doctor, supported by the Serbian police in Belgrade, a doctor from the Serbian Clinical Centre, was pulling out Albanian organs and selling them on the black market. It was a film store for those we're financing from the Republic register. If they want to leave the Republic of Serbia, it's a win for this country. It's no loss for the people or for the state or for the art. Some new actors will show up, some artists will show up, some new Kusturica will show up to which they have taken up space. Making such films, in my opinion, can't be co-financed. The state shouldn't be giving money here. It should give money for art, not for some practice, killing, Gambles, and what they show in Hollywood American films that are not co-financed by the American state, but in a commercial way, such films are made. We give them money, they go for a walk, the state is good to them, and they return to the country in the worst possible way by wanting to make the position of the Republic of Serbia difficult in perhaps a crucial 2019. As MPs, we have sworn an oath here to the state, and these oaths must be kept. I am surprised by the DS, which is under the banner of the political party Dveri, and not only under the banner but also under the gallows of Dimitri Bostic Ljotic and the fifth voluntary, volunteer squad of Marisav Petrovic, Dimitri Ljotic, who shot at Kragujevac, under their banner today goes DS. It's a shame for what used to be called DS. Not only for them, it is a disgrace to the MPs, who, along with them, want to have the heritage of the darkest forms of fascism that were in Serbia. To the soul and during World War II, it was a minority mood in the Serbian people. So there was a Dimitri Ljotic and he didn't accept anyone during the war. Today, the Democratic Party and its similar parties are handing over their electoral body to the followers of Dimitri Ljotic. Now, these are the ones who say the Assembly is a mockery, and their parallel parliament, under the flag of Dimitri Ljotic, is the real parliament. That's the kind of parliament I need to strongly condemn. That's why I expect from my colleagues that today in discussions we all clearly and unequivocally say that we disagree with that kind of policy, I will not tell the traitor, but I disagree with those unfortunates who do not know that they respect their country, their country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51704	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51705	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education of the SRS Parliamentary Group has proposed amending this Article in paragraph 2, by deleting part of the text. Article 2 wishes to amend Article 62 of the basic law, which refers to the overall success of the student. As its goal, the Proposer underlines the need to bring this law into line with the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which we hope, later on in the course of this joint debate, there will be more words. We from the SRS parliamentary group point out that the aim of adopting this law is to improve the area in which the law is passed, which is not the case in this bill. That is why we have also submitted this amendment, which we have proposed to delete in paragraph 2: "except for third and fourth grade students who are translated into the next class, in accordance with the law". We believe that the current legal solution is not in the interest of primary school students, their parents or guardians, that it is not in the interest of the whole society. The wrong way of showing the overall success of students creates wrong habits among students, because it is actually a kind of protectionism. Students who allow this protectionism are under the impression that they can achieve anything without effort, and their schoolmates who learn valuables get the impression that someone has unwarrantedly received something they have not earned. Because of such a way, which allows the transition to several classes with insufficient grades, created by the students by the protectionists, the SRS parliamentary group submitted this amendment. We believe that if the promoter wants healthier relations in society, he should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51706	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51707	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, education is the strongest weapon you can use to change the world. That's what Nelson Mendela said, and I think he was right. Someone else said that learning is like rowing upstream – as soon as you stop learning, you go backwards. Someone said you're old as soon as you stop learning, whether you're 20 or 80 years old. With those sayings and the wetlands, I totally agree. However, there is also a saying that anyone who wants to be a teacher must learn every day. I speak again, Mr. Minister, who are the men who surrender? I've got a big moral gromada here, under the name Cedomir Cupic. He's a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences. His grandeur consists of being a member of many ethical committees, some ethical committees, which he was also a member of the management of the Anti-Corruption Agency. This is a man who's been reported to be sexually harassing his students in classes many times, who, instead of corruption, speaks of glands in a woman's full organ. Is he even worthy of teaching functions? Did he stop studying? It probably is. Probably his teaching ended with the completion of college and dreaming of fellow students. He probably hasn't gone mentally out of that period yet, and he's giving this class at the FPN. He's been reported multiple times. That's the man who requested the resignation of the President of the Republic. He asked for the resignation of the President of the Republic because he claimed that the president was not moral enough. It's about Cedomir Chupic. He spoke of morality, that the President of the Republic, no less, should resign. There, asked Cedomir Čupic, a congratulatory lecturer of sexual education at FPN, where he did not teach from the subject, a congratulatory professor, who was repeatedly reported by students for sexual harassment, honest and honest. Never a more honest and honest professor, I guess, existed on the FPN, although there's everything there and you know it as well as I do. To turn your sleeves and try to clear up at that university, with teachers like this, it'll take you three years of hard work and you won't get far. There's all some moral shrubs out there. Honoring the exceptions, I believe half the professors there are congratulating. But here's how they got away with it. I have a criminal record here. Congratulations, a very good, honest Professor Cedomir Cupic held a session of the appeal commission at the Anti-Corruption Agency, which he did not hold. The Commission has three members. He well signed himself, signed his professors, colleagues who were members of the Board of Appeal, refused the appeal, wrote that the session was held and lied, and received criminal charges. It's criminal charges for counterfeiting, and more forgeries. It is as if, now, God forbid, Vladimir Marinkovic wrote that the session was held, signed by MPs and duly confirmed the signatures that are forgeries. He won't do it, but it didn't occur to Cedomir Chupic, the moral gromad, founder of the Resistance party, that it was punishable by law. But look at our very prosecutor's office. How these, apparently, yellow judicial reformers have their tentacles. The prosecution is transforming this professor's crime into a minor crime. He settles for 50,000 dinars, pleads guilty and closes his case with 50,000 dinars. Now, such lecturers and professors, we have not only in college, these are the feathers of those who demand the resignation of the President of the Republic. A man like this, professors like this try to show that they're real teachers, that they're the future, and that they're professors from the Law School, they're punks and they're what they're called. So, professors who protest, who are against the state, who commit crimes, are real, and those who stick to their professions and sciences are not. Now, with such teachers, we must finish, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51708	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51709	Honorable president, just to say, as we have already said, the character of a teacher is one of the main factors in school and colleges. My previous speaker characterized a university professor. Just to add that the professor said in the protests about the President of the Republic, I quote, "there is no conscience and consciousness", a quote concluded. I'd just like to remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, and you're sitting here with benches that you remember, that this Cedomir Čupic, a professor, has been chosen as a regular professor without conditions. You remember the show that was, it seems to me on one of the national televisions, etc., were fellow professors, took advantage of the political moment and was named a regular professor. He took advantage of October 5th, and now he's walking, the same Cedomir Cupic. It would be good to look into his income, where his income came from at that time, not only him, but many signatories of this appeal. Open, public, you know where who and how he worked. Once again, I repeat, a teacher must have such a character to be an example to students and students. That's what we in pedagogy know very well. It must be pedagogical and psychologically trained for the function it performs. He must fight crime and corruption. Let's look at one of these professors I talked about for two days and so on. I typed in to see what Cedomir Cupic is like in prestigious international magazines. You know what he's showing me there? Zero. Zero, and he takes it to criticise this power that fights for us teachers to write, not only in our magazines, but also in international, to put science in the market of Europe and the world in some way. That's the point. When we tried that, Mr. Minister, headed with you, that's where the resistance came in. Here they walk because they don't have it, because they got it on October 5th, and now they want them and their kids to get it, because it's the essence of things, not that we put our knowledge on the market, our education, so we can put our economy on the market. That's what brings us forward. It is the modernisation of Serbia by the government of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the Ministers, and we MPs, the majority in this high house, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and as you know, the engine of Serbia's modernisation is the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51710	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as my amendment is concerned, I do not share the proposal's opinion, regardless of all the reasons you have stated, and we believe that this is an unnecessary waste of time, so I suggest that the Ministry prepare a sublegal act within three months, and not as it stands in the draft of the law – within two years. As regards this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, as well as any earlier interventions in this area, I consider it a good attempt to seek out a serious, fundamental and comprehensive reform of the field of primary education, whose function is to basically describe students from all areas of importance for the life of the modern world, and to prepare it for further education and training. The Serbian Radical Party once again points to our remarks about the overcrowding of the school programme, as well as the insufficient number of physical education classes, as well as the fact that in this ruse and flood of the Internet, electronic and rapid communications and information, children have stopped reading more and more, have started living in some virtual world, where violence, alcohol, drugs and crime are dominant on social networks and media. We stand for a creative school where children will be free-thinking human beings, where students will get A's for their ideas and I mean, not ours. Mr. Minister, you just told my colleague Milorad Mircic that the Mathematical High School of Belgrade and Joova Jovanovic Dragon High School from Novi Sad are different. I couldn't agree more, and I don't think any schools can be measured with mathematical high school in Belgrade. I do not diminish the reputation, importance, success and results of the "Jovan Jovanovic Dragon" high school, but when you have already listed it and singled out, you could in this context list some other schools, high school from Kragujevac, Nis, Kralje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51712	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of an education and education system, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51713	Thank you. With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to exactly what we talked about in the last hour and in the debate in which, Minister, you participated with MP Milorad Mircic about these prestigious schools, we actually want to talk about, and what is holding back other schools from being. So, they don't have to go to one school, it's impossible, everything is just a lot of talented students, all of them to be decorated, all of them to be ready for some competitions, etc., but the problem is that in almost every school, it may not be almost necessary, but in every school there are just such students and such students and teachers who deal with such students, prepare them for competitions, win excellent results, they don't have any stimulation. On the contrary, they are often scolded. Other teachers are jealous of a teacher who has one or two students who is excellent, who is talented, who achieves the result in competitions, even at international level or at all levels to the Republic, and students who are such are most often seen under the eye, not only by other children. When we talk about the next law, we must also talk about it, or it is already in this, to draw attention to what we told you when we talked about this proposal in 2018. The introduction of parents, minors, in school management is very bad because such parents can't stand that there's a kid at school who's great, who scores in competitions, etc. Such a parent, because, sometimes, I cariced it like that, but it's basically like that, which has money to say -- I'm going to paint the school, act like the school's boss, act like the teacher's boss, make a call to such a parent and get your inspectors, ministers, who come in with an inspection with preconvincement on a particular teacher and his work. So there's no reality, believe me, trinkets. You mentioned earlier that you could take down a desk of directors all of a sudden. You don't have to replace them like that, and you don't have to, but the directors are always under tension, the directors don't want to object to you, they don't want to blame the ministry, precisely because of what we said was bad in the law that you chose the director and when we said it was impossible for you to know all the directors in all the schools. You have recently written one question, i.e. from the ministry has gone disseminating in all schools to be able to select textbooks from certain publishers, it is recommended, I think, that some publisher think, rather than a publisher who publishes books in Serbia, and it is a good result of our criticism that you have allowed our textbooks to be printed in Croatia, to be printed there by someone who was a funder of Franjo Tudjman and now his parties etc. But what did you do in that? You said - you can choose which publisher you will buy books from, but if your parents object, then it's your responsibility and then the director to make sure Minister Sarcevic doesn't touch him, then he tells the teachers - well, you know we can't, if you see what it says here - well, it says that we can choose - yes, but if the parents rebel, then it'll be my responsibility, it'll stay the way it is, and believe this isn't the story - I'm telling you the story, this is living truth. You have to do something in this sense that the directors have to be a little more relaxed than threatening a possible shift from the Ministry, and on the other hand, they have to be much more responsible. You know, in that cramp and fear, they only look at themselves. They don't care about teachers, they don't care about students, they don't care about problems, so there's a lot of stuff going on in drug schools, peer violence and whatnot. The directors locked up in their office and just-- don't please me, I don't know, there'll be an inspection, they'll write to us from the ministry, they can't do it that way. This isn't an observation as directly to you as it is to some relationship. You know, the inspector announces that he will come then and then, and the teacher says – please, if some other day, that day is my glory, and the inspector says - he can say I planned you for then and came and in the absence of teachers recorded how that teacher holds the class. Is that possible? Actually, it's possible because it's happening, but why is that possible, that's the real question? There's a lot you have to do. You'd better come talk to the teachers than send them those "hi-bye friends". You should have been at this winter seminar in Belgrade, and when they announced that you were not coming teachers applauded, they were glad that you wouldn't come, and it's very bad for them to experience you, and believe Minister Sarčević, small salaries are a big problem for the educators, but they're much more hurtful, those serious educators, much more pain, they're very upset that they can't be teachers, which they can't be educators the way they learned, as they think they should be, but they're constantly in some disciplines, in some fear of some inspector, from some director, from someone from the ministry. It's just not good and it's reflected, what's the essence of our entire today's debate, it's reflected on students, it's reflected on some future students, some future experts, some future statesmen, some future officials, workers, auto mechanics, doctors, whatever. If it's not a good basis, if they don't have it in elementary school, they'll hardly make it up, we've talked about Shuvar, we've talked about what you're trying to do through dual education to impose, etc. All this will lead to us having more and more of what we have today every day, and these are illiterate and formally educated people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51714	Thank you. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. When this law enters into force, none of the students will even notice it, because the essence of what they are concerned is already contained in the laws on primary and secondary school, as well as the relevant rules on evaluation, rule, final exam, graduation exam, requalification and qualification, etc. We recently passed in this congregation a law on dual education that is absolutely inadmissible to our conditions. We of the SRS were then talking and criticising that it cannot live with us, but you are persistently deafening our suggestions and initiatives. What kind of personnel are needed on our market today? The market today is looking for a little bit of welder and similar metal professions, but they do not unfortunately stay with us, but go to Western European countries, for example in the environment, in Slovenia, and the same is the case with drivers. The waiters are also wanted, but of course they are for the Montenegrin coastal market. Economicly successful countries have not accepted the model of education that is imposed on us today, such as the example of Finland or Asian countries, such as China. Education is nothing short-term, but a strategic matter. About 3.5% of GDP is allocated to education, while the European standard is 6%. The state needs to make a serious education strategy, not like this from today until tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51716	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51717	Mr. Minister, the first Law on the founding of the education system in Serbia when it was brought under Dossow rule in 2009 has raised some issues such as decentralisation in the education system, autonomy of educated institutions, etc. and then in practice it turned out that it was not good and that all these experiments and all the conditions that come from the EU are destroying our education school system and that we need to return to traditional values. We have an example of Russia. The system of education, perhaps Professor Atlagic or some present in a hall with academic calling and education, is set in the 18th century, and then you have a situation, not to talk about these old civilizations like China and other countries where this doesn't change from opportunity to education, and now they tell us – these factories will come to Serbia, they will get subsidies for jobs of 10 or 11 000 euros, and now we only need salesmen for Lidl, and we will train people, as much as, Verice, two years for all the jobs that are being done there. No, that's the wrong thing to do. We must have such basic systems of education that society plays a collective role in human education. What does that mean now? A man who is absolutely not trained for any work, has completed a primary school, needs to be managed for what is needed at this time, so he will not possibly raise his child, but rather be defined for something of lasting value and should be in Serbia. Yesterday, along with us Serbian radicals, the glory of St. The three Jerrahs also celebrated the craftsmen, for it is esnaphic glory. Look, Mr. Minister, how many opportunities are there, and this should be the basis of our education, here, there is also the Minister of Culture and Associates, the old craftsmen in Serbia who can re-affirm themselves and who can play their part in the labour market in Serbia. Right? We have whole parts of Serbia where it can be done in a more modern way, but people can live off that work and from that job. Especially because in expansion and development of tourism, such products are becoming more and more valuable. Why in some other countries would they produce souvenirs where Serbia, Belgrade, Kragujevac and other cities, Tara, Stara Planina, would write without doing so in Serbia? It's just one example. Not to mention the situation where the classes themselves in certain schools are not adequate for the future work of those students when they finish and those vocational schools. So these are all the problems this society needs to face. So it's the last time we're doing any more experiments, but to focus on the future, and the future has to be defined through the overall economic development program. You know what, not agriculture, and Serbia's largest population is described in the country, because it's the largest number of people living in rural areas, it's not the same anymore, so we're the same people, so with the completion of a primary school or a high school, mentioned fellow Mircic and the unfortunate time of Shuvarica and that directional education where people came out of school with incomplete interest or some interest they couldn't apply in practice. So let's do one serious analysis again, which is what you should do as a government and focus on the future and what we're going to give the kids in the country, what in the underdeveloped areas, and what about those who finished those schools, and what about those who were in the vacuum, who were great craftsmen in the factories that were destroyed, closed down the factories, here in the King's 14 factories, in Kragujevac over 10. These people aren't retired, they've been paid, some period at the National Employment Service, they're qualified and now they can't work. In order for their children not to experience the same fate, the education system in Serbia must be properly set up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51718	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51719	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of Ministers with Associates, I will rely on the discussions of the predecessors and when I spoke about the pedagogisation of society, let me say that when we change our curricula and programmes, or even the goals of education and education, we should take care of two elements. The first is pedagogisation, as I said, that is, to introduce peace pedagogy as a principle and second patriotism. I'll explain what that means. The honourable MPs should write a great book on what the pedagogicals of past civilizations and many researchers have found and concluded on the meaning of knowledge, education and culture for the development of society, for the development of human beings, and we would conclude that the pedagogisation of a society that our Ministry of Last Years, i.e. the pedagogy of peace, is necessary in particular in these areas of the Balkans, as wars and the consequences of wars are felt at every turn. Pedagoggy of Peace is not a new scientific discipline, but an idea and action to intensify the educational function of pedagogical factors, i.e. factors, and above all pedagogical workers and pedagogical institutions in the direction of reaffirming the objective and task of education. I will insist on that constantly, therefore, on the objective of the task and the training that will explicitly contribute to the formation of a young generation whose freedom is a long imperative and a condition for their own happiness. This is what we need, gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament in the Balkans, and not to say it in the whole world. The history of education and pedagogical ideas in us, as well as in the world, is rich in efforts and achievements in the plan of raising the fight for peace, national and any other tolerance. In these achievements and modern outflows of aggression and madness in our places, we need to look, and that is what we gentlemen, our ministry, and especially the President of the Republic, are looking for to get out of this tunnel, under the allegations of the eclipse of the mind, the frustrated rescuers of democracy, etc. The pedagogy of peace is based on the conditions of our pedagogical thinkers. I don't want to mention because of the time, just let me say that the great and unsurpassed reformer and teacher of humanity Jan Amos Komenski, the educators know who Jan Amos Komenski is, wrote, quote: "War should be rejected as something beastly, because people only agree with what is human." We should raise our children in the Balkans for peace, for co-operation and mutual assistance from the first cry of children to puberty. Such a guided disciple will be a peacemaker and will be peaceable. In 1924, the French teachers pointed out: “If you want lasting and secure peace, there should be an disarmament of hatred among the nations that separates individual nations and brings evil blood as a bacil of all conflicts and wars. ” I urge that we, as a educational principle, also accept in collaboration with other countries of Europe, and especially here in the environment, force the pedagogy of peace for which our President Aleksandar Vukic is selflessly fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51720	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51721	Article 5 speaks of the Minister of Education being able to assign the status of a resource centre to a particular institution. We only have one principled reason here to be a ministry instead of a minister, otherwise we don't challenge this possibility at all. This is about supporting people who are distracted by development and persons who have disabilities, so that they, their families and, of course, educational workers who carry out teaching with them, can also be made easier by the situation. We have suggested that, besides these assistive technologies, they be added and assisted. In the government they say it is in the jurisdiction of some others and is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, it is not so much now or important, but Mr. Minister, much more attention should be paid to those environments in which teaching is performed by unprofessional persons. These are mostly less local self-government and are related to several subjects, such as mathematics, chemistry, physics and so on, and then it happens that those who have educated in the accelerated system or the accelerated process, which means those who have bought diplomas to perform this course and are asking the question of the quality of students who are going to finish that school in front of such teachers or teachers. I don't know how much you've come from being very busy, I'm really saying this honestly and seriously, because I remember when Zarko Obradovic came to this ministry for the minister, then from 94% to 96% of the funds the ministry received were allocated to the salaries of the ministry employees. In such a situation, it was objectively very difficult to improve teaching and improve the education system. I suppose now the situation in the education system, or the ministry, is more favourable, but how long have you arrived to check out some diplomas? SNS colleagues talk about diplomats, i.e. the professional works of some professors who are now walking, I do not dispute it, they are right, but they should have finally checked the diploma of the former president of the state and that you come out here and say – that it is no longer disputed or it is disputed, because it is a bad message to the citizens of Serbia and children. It should always be borne in mind that in every society, even in ours, as much as someone is trying to make it better and better, there will be people who want to take the shortcut. And if the message comes from the most responsible person, the president of the state, at a certain point, that he's willing to buy a diploma or get it on a gift, then it's a very bad message for those who need to get a regular education in our system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51722	You've wasted group time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51723	Is it possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51724	It's possible, you're active. The word has Minister Sarcevic, to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51725	I will focus on this topic of initial education of teachers working in Serbia's education system. When it comes to having a diploma, you know that checking goes from applicants to requesting and determining credibility. So our inspections never ran away from it, we have no such demands. When it comes to the initial education of teachers, I raised the question a year ago and we learned the truth, and it's the same old story for more than 20 years, that mathematicians, physicists, English professors, German language are easier to get jobs in the economy and are not motivated to work in education. Of course, these are alternative personnel, as the law states, that six months can be reported by someone who partially meets the requirements. Our worst situation with mathematics, not even Belgrade's proximity, is so important, I also get lucky in Kovacica, which is an air line of 30, 40 km. But we've taken very important measures, which is that with the colleges that are in the classroom, we're now discussing a new accreditation process in 2019, that we're going to form two groups for those professions that are very important for education, which is a crumbling class fund that allows, these were solutions from before. So we took important measures to deal with this issue. Recently, UNICEF came to us as a partner to really run this topic. I think things are going to change significantly by introducing payment classes, because someone who's disabled can, and information is also on the edge, which says, the need, because for a long time this hasn't been answered. So we opened this topic ourselves, found out how things were going. We recently opened a department at the University of Niscal, at the Faculty of Philosophy for Germanism, so the south of Serbia has in some way now been given the opportunity to do so. The very curricula and programmes at the mathematical colleges in Novi Sad and Belgrade are so similar when it comes to very few differences they can move on to work in companies. We simply lack new plans and programs and a series of measures that we have now established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51726	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51727	Since colleagues from the SRS have always had the need to honor our diploma, Tomislav Nikolic, I have so far not wanted to deal with this issue much. But seeing as it is now one of the favorite topics in today's session, simply because of the public, I have a photocopy of Tomislav Nikolic's diploma, former president of the Republic of Serbia. The diploma shows that he graduated from the Faculty of Management in Novi Sad, within the Novi Sad Business Academy. The diploma says so – Nikolic (Radomir) Tomislav, born February 15th, 1952, in Kragujevac, Serbia, enrolled in school 2003/2004. On 19 January 2007, he completed his studies at the Faculty of Management, on the direction of – operational management with a general success of 8.37 in the course of the studies and grading 10 in the graduate exam, and obtained a professional title – graduate manager. Since you keep asking us what happened to Tomislav Nikolic's diploma, here I can ask you, you had time after a man graduated from college on January 19th 2007, and you didn't ask him how he ended this college, how he passed his exams, who questioned him, from which textbooks he taught, but the issue became controversial when Tomislav Nikolic left the SRS. Why did you run for President of the Republic if his diploma was falsified? It is a question to which you yourself should give an answer, that is, to ask yourself. As far as I'm concerned, every diplomat in Serbia is valid until it is challenged and its unauthentics proved in a legally prescribed manner. So I don't think it's right to bid in the media on whether someone's doctorate or someone's diploma is valid or not, and this commission is formed, and no commission is formed. Then those who say, the other day on a show, I had a chance to ask Mrs. Sandu Raskovic Ivić, since she mentioned some doctorate committee for Cynthia Mali – well, who's a member of that commission, so I don't know. Okay. Can you at least tell me one name? I don't know. I don't know any names, but I know a commission was formed. I don't think that this contributes to our higher education, and I think that we should be very careful when we talk about this issue, and I think that all of us who have completed colleges and state and private, and in some time past and recently, we need to take care of what we're talking about and make sure that our statements, however politically colored they are, and sometimes even politically acute, do not question the credibility of our entire higher education. There are many good professors at our colleges, good and valuable students, good and valuable assistants, there are also those who are not, but I think those in this first category have more. Regardless of all the blows to our higher education, which have been coming since 2000, I think we still have generally good colleges, we have generally good high schools that teach good staff. Today, our doctors, engineers and people who have finished some other colleges are highly appreciated in the world, and I think that when we talk about who he is and how he got his degree, we need to take care of the credibility of our higher education and the credibility that works in the higher education system. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51728	He can't do it on the same basis now, two. You as the head of the parliamentary group, and Sreto Peric, he was in your favor. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51729	We Serbian radicals have never disputed that there are good schools in Serbia, good colleges, quality teachers, quality professors etc. But just in order for it to be more and for all of us to be like that, we draw attention to what is not. The fact is that besides all that, there are more diplomas in Serbia that are suspicious whether they are bought, whether they are won in one way or another. You know, it's a public secret. It's something that's completely open-minded. We're not attacking anyone because they're politically unsuitable to us. Have we ever questioned the degree of Maja Gojkovic, Aleksandra Vukic, you, Mr. Martinovic? We didn't, because we know that you normally graduated from college, finished, got your diplomas, as we know Toma Nikolic didn't, and so do you. (Alexander Martinovic: When did you find out? Here, I'll tell you when we find out. We found out, Mr. Martinovic, when he was no longer in the SRS. The fact that you are, only you are, here I am going to tell you, and you were in the SRS at the time, Mr Martinovic, did you know then that Toma Nikolic had graduated from something? You're not. You say, "Why did we run for president?"
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51730	No personal address please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51731	He says Martinović – what were we running for president for Tom Nikolic? Look at the paperwork. He's a candidate as a construction technician. That's how he signed up, and that's how he signed up for us and for all the citizens, he was a construction technician. The question for him is why did he hide from us then that he had a degree. Well, of course, because we as serious people would ask him – where did you get that, black Tomo? So they would see when he lays down, and then we would prove what we prove before the court. You know we filed a criminal report, that he got two grades the same day he was in Strasbourg, Natasha and I were with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51732	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51733	By amendment, if I may. All of us, Mrs. Verice Radeta, were in the same party at the time, in 2003, 2004 and 2007. - Yes, that's why I'm talking. ) I know very well, as you all know, all of you MPs of the SRS, not that you should not have asked Tomislav Nikolic if he had graduated from college and in any way, but if he met you in the hallway and told you good day, you were the happiest person in the world. (The Faith of Radeta: Auu, Martinovic.) Yeah, well, I'm lying now. You're lying. ) Tomislav Nikolic was for you at the time the best politician in Serbia, a man from the people, someone who replaces the party president who is in The Hague, spoke of him with praises and sounds rather naive to me what you are now trying to prove. There, as no one in the SRS now, imagine, knew that Tomislav Nikolic had enrolled in the university in 2003 and had completed it on 19 January 2007. Come on, please. So these are stories that even little children can't believe. Especially to say that you, my colleagues from the SRS, who have always been well informed, who have the laufers in every place, who, together, we have, in fact, discovered numerous DOS affairs after 2000, we have fought for justice, for the truth, for some better and happier Serbia, we have been fellows. At one point we parted, but then you asked the question of Tomislav Nikolic's diploma only when he left the SRS. If you didn't know that he was in college and that he finished it, very few people in Serbia could believe it. (The Faith of Radeta: Tell me if you knew.) But I don't want to... (The Faith of Radeta: Did You Know?) I knew the same thing you knew. I didn't know. I knew the same thing you knew.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51734	The MPs, here's the break, another hour and a half, and we'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51735	I knew the same thing you knew, but it doesn't matter now. I want to tell you, Tomislav Nikolic earned his diploma as vice president of the SRS, not as president of the SNS. You've had enough time since January 2007, until September 2008, when he left the SRS, it's impossible that you didn't find out for such a long period of time that the man had graduated from college, so you could ask him nicely – how did you end up, who you ended up with, how did you take the exams, etc.? You knew very well that he had graduated from college, but you didn't have the courage to ask him, that's what it was about. You have the courage to honor someone, especially when they're on the hierarchical scale above you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51736	Certainly an interesting debate, but I cannot implement under the amendment on assystic technology and the addition of the word "helped". (Replica, I have to answer.) ) Nothing in life has to be done, but one thing, and that is to die, and from that we are far away. (Miss Radeta: By amendment.) Let me run the session. I allow it, but there's no point in ending it like this. Please. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51737	Thank you. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 6 concerns student monitoring and evaluation. We suggested adding a word, in addition to a formative and sumatic assessment, to add "diagnostic", because the basic idea was that evaluation, teaching and learning are integrated processes that only interact with the intended effects. Thus, there are several evaluation functions, as I have stated, which is formatted and suspicious. The formal, which is used as an indicator of student advancement during education, when the teacher focuses on how the student learns, collects information about achievements and modifies the teaching and activities in which the student is involved. In a dubious phase, it refers to measurement at the final stage to determine whether the students achieve the desired goal. We have also proposed a diagnostic function that refers to that assessment usually carried out at the beginning of the learning process and this kind of initial testing should be used to provide institutions of skills, abilities, interest, experience and levels of achievement or difficulty of individual students or whole departments and therefore it is possible to plan and organise the learning process effectively and individualise access to learning. This is what we suggested for reasons because an increasing number of children with developmental and disability disorders are involved in regular schools and therefore we believe that the diagnostic function of evaluation should be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51738	The word has been given by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet, by amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51739	Of course, this amendment should be accepted. In the context of this amendment and the debate on the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System, I must remind a fellow who had just said that we had just and in accordance with this law asked Tomislav Nikolic why he had not graduated from college, and he said that he was not because he was poor, and then we asked him later, when he entered the Faculty of Law on an extraordinary basis, which he did not finish, he says – I will not, it is not a good system. It was only when he left the SRS, when we pushed him out, that his diploma appeared, which he didn't know exactly what direction it was, what it was called, directly on a television show. Mr. Martinovic says that we should not have asked Nikolic for a degree and we should not have asked him anything, and he says – he gained his degree while he was in radicals. Well, he won a lot of things while he was in the radicals, but we didn't know, we just found out later, but hopefully he'll talk about it sometime. The only thing I don't understand is that now Martinovic has thought of defending Tom's degree, he's never done it before. Very indicative, the citizens will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51740	You want a replica or an amendment? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51741	It's not me, Mrs. Radeta, it's no one's lawyer. I didn't even say you were a lawyer. So I'm not defending anyone. Lawyers of defenses in court clients. Tomislav Nikolic is not my client, nor is this court, nor am I a lawyer. I'm just saying, that the citizens of Serbia would know that Tomislav Nikolic had enrolled in the university and had completed it as vice president of the SRS and as president of the SRS parliamentary group, point. Furthermore, you did not drive Tomislav Nikolic out of the SRS, but he resigned. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's true, Mrs. Radeta, you can tell that to someone who wasn't an eyewitness to all that. I know you've been dictated that the SRS is thanking Tomislav Nikolic for everything he's done for the SRS, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51742	I ask the messengers not to speak to each other. I'm gonna have to hang up. Don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51743	I'm just saying how it was. You have this need that when a man leaves you to talk about him all the worst. As long as he's with you, he's the best and the smartest, etc. I became a monkey when I left the SRS. Right? You've printed books with my character, haven't you? No, we shouldn't have given it to you. So I became a monkey the moment I left the SRS. When I was with you, you wanted to run for President of the Republic. Right? I was the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Right? I wasn't your monkey then. Right? When I was gathering people to testify in favor of Vojislav Seselj, I wasn't a monkey. I became all that, that is, I became a monkey only when I no longer wanted to be with you and when I said – I will not be led by those who are, I will not say worse, but have less political qualities than I am and time has shown that I was right. Nothing else. I don't want to offend you. I'm no one's lawyer. I'm not attacking anyone. You said yourself you're a monkey. You said about me and you printed a book that I'm a monkey and I'm great. Well, I am, I'm a monkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51744	Please, I'm gonna stop this. This doesn't make any sense anymore, you both say the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51745	I became a monkey the moment I left the SRS, then I became a monkey, and when I was in the SRS, I wasn't a monkey. (President: Thank you. So when I was with you, I wasn't a monkey. So this is where people become monkeys when they leave the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51746	Thank you, MPs. Thank you. I ask all MPs to return to the topic, otherwise I must take a break before the time. I want to replicate, there's no need for a break. There's no need for a break? There's a need for a break. I'll let you replicate. I'm not going into what kind of tone anyone will have, but let's discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I don't know how to lead these discussions under this important law for Serbian citizens. Please. I'll give you a replica. Please don't really talk about the history of Serbia's multi-party system. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51747	I don't think it's a problem to talk about history, but it's important to say what's true. So, we never attacked anyone, nor talked about anyone when they were no longer in the SRS because that's what came to mind, but because we came up with certain information that someone was successfully hiding while in the SRS. Here, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic was in the SRS, did anyone ever hear us say something bad about her? Of course not. There is no reason, and for whoever there is reason, you know you didn't answer our question whether you knew or whether Mr. Martinovic knew that Toma Nikolic had a degree when he was in radicals. Well, he didn't know because nobody knew. Because no one knew and he waited a moment to show her when some of his time came that he could hardly wait, you remember when he was declared president at five o'clock. We know a lot, and so do you. The only thing I don't understand is what's so clear about this time of year when a lot of what's going on in this country, in this society, why it's just occurred to Martinovic now to defend Tomislav Nikolic and his diploma, and we've often talked about it and we'll always talk about it. I repeat, what is controversial is that Serbian citizens should inform themselves and what do you care if Toma makes that new party, better they know he forged a diploma and you won't buy it by defending it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51748	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word to that amendment? (No) Oh, wow, Mircic answered, after, well, all right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51749	The essence of this debate is the intention of the SRS to warn both the Minister and the Government on which time the laws should not be passed, especially those amendments and amendments to the law, no matter how they interpret it, there is still the intention of the SRS to correct what they are, as they would say European fluids. 'These European fluids have cost a lot of Serbia, since we started treading this path leading us on our way to Europe, we see what the consequences are, especially when it comes to education. In education we came gentlemen to this level by introducing admission exams and now finals of these exams by students from primary and secondary schools. We're not actually making any selection. We're making exactly what's negative. Consideration should be given to returning what was once applied, which is that on the basis of success in eight years of schooling and evaluating that success, the student can enroll in high school. Whether a student will assess well or possibly someone instead of him who has chosen high school well, it will show his further education. As for students, or college students, the entrance exam should be cancelled. We have an absurd situation here, that in the entrance exams when they go to high school, or this final school, you have such drastic examples where the middle-rate student brilliantly does that final exam, because through some personal or some other relationships, he's got that test.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51750	Thank you. Your group has wasted their time. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51751	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, submitted by the SRS to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, proposed that Article 7, of the existing Article, paragraph 8, "be translated into the next class on the basis of the decision of the Sectional Council", replaces the wording "adjustment exam". Article 73 of the basic law refers to the evaluation and advancement of students, and Article 8 specifically defines that the second and third grade of primary education and education, which at the end of the second half has insufficient grades, translates into the next class on the basis of the decision of the department council. We in the SRS are of the opinion that the adoption of the proposed amendment would reduce protection in the first years of socialisation of children, in the first years of schooling. Officials in Serbia must be aware that the general lack of children, and thus the lack of school children cannot be compensated by protectionism, because it is a poor educational role of education. The lack of children is compensated for the better conditions in the life of parents who should give birth to and protect them, better conditions for the employment of young people in order to stay in Serbia, not to leave their country daily. They go not to return and form a family there and raise their children, but those children will not go to Serbian schools. That's why Serbian schools are empty, which is why the lack of school children is increasingly evident. The problem cannot be solved by protectionism, if the proponent wants well for the next generations of students, he will accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51752	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51753	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, every happy and orderly state, as our country tends to be, consider the issue of education to be one of the most important if not the most important state issue. This is quite logical when we know that education is the process of gaining knowledge, and knowledge today is the best quality, most wanted and most expensive goods on the world market. We produce knowledge, but we don't use it enough. Better say, our knowledge others use more. I don't think we recognize enough knowledge as wealth as resource. That is why we allowed Serbia to become the largest exporter of knowledge at the lowest possible price. I have to say hello here to the idea of the separation of two institutions, two schools, and one more time to look back at math high school. I find it incomparable in the state of Serbia, long ago recognised as a Serbian national brand. You'll agree, Mr. Minister, that this is where you should mention the man who designed all of this, the founder of Mathematical High School, Professor. Milan Rasopovic. I can say this because as a professor for many decades I spent in the most elite Belgrade high schools, such as the First, Fifth, etc., every honour and high school "Jovan Jovanovic Dragon" from Novi Sad and all others, but the Mathematical High School remained, became and survived as a national brand of Serbia. I've got a little more time to...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51754	I'm afraid not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51755	Why? I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51756	I do. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51757	I support your position to mention the name of a man who is also responsible for the establishment and brand, Professor Rasopovic, because further merits are relative to his much less. I am obliged to say that this series of good schools will continue and that there are certainly very high-quality institutions, with them not to be potentiated now. You know, it's a shame not to mention high school in Nis, Kragujevac and many others, but somehow it has to start a line from the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51758	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. This, like all other laws in the field of education, worked a narrow group of people from the environment of the minister of education. The problem is that these are people who are primarily psychologists and educators and that bad solutions are prescribed from European legislation. Practice has shown that such solutions are totally inapplicable to our education system. Infinite seminars remain behind which, as a rule, various NGOs are behind. These seminars proved to be a total failure because they did not give any effect in improving the teaching process. Worst of all, seminars are held by many people who never carried a diary or did it very briefly, and once upon a time. There's always talk of some kind of decentralisation and greater freedom in this area, and in practice it's just the other way around. The minister determines almost everything, starting with curricula and programmes, to the election of directors. So we have a constant situation where one bad law is replaced by another, by the rule of even worse law. A Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will not vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51760	Thank you. Parliamentarians Ivan Bauer, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Slavica Zivkovic submitted the 12th amendment together. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51761	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which amends Article 89 of the original text of this Act. With this Article 12, we introduce a new concept – an institution of national importance for the Republic of Serbia and two schools, i.e. two institutions in Serbia, we declare institutions of national importance for the Republic of Serbia, which are the Mathematical School of Belgrade and High School "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" in Novi Sad. I'm sure the least we can say is that these two schools deserve this kind of prestigious calling completely. I will remind citizens that the "Jovan Jovanovic Dragon" High School was founded in 1703. So she's already in the fourth century of her existence. In his opening statement the day before yesterday, the minister said that this school, to say the least, had dropped over 70 academics. So this is an extremely important school for Serbia and for our people. Mathematical high school is a much younger institution. It's been there since 1966. So, she's drastically younger, but she's no less important, because in these 50 and a few years she won about 500 medals at different scientific Olympics for the Republic of Serbia, which is a result that not only has one school in Serbia recorded, but I would say, not one school most likely in the whole region. So it is an extremely important institution for the Republic of Serbia, and I would say for the entire region of southern Europe. For example, just last year, the students of this very two high school, so the Jovan Jovanovic Dragon High School in Novi Sad and the Mathematical High School of Belgrade won the International Mathematical Olympics, which took place in Bucharest, Romania, six medals for the Republic of Serbia. And you and I, Mr. Minister, have talked about this issue over the last two years several times, and I, you remember, have also proposed to pass a law on Mathematical High School, so I'm still standing by this proposal, because I think a law like this would be very important for the further development of Mathematical High School. This is certainly the first step in this direction and this is the step I welcome and thank the minister on behalf of both students and on behalf of the professors and on behalf of all those who went to this school, well, here, and on my behalf, we have declared these two schools of national importance for the Republic of Serbia. What's the idea of an amendment intervention when it comes to Article 12? You have prescribed in Article 32 of this Act that you will bring all sublaws into force within one year of the date of entry into force of this Act. I felt that we would deny these two schools for one school year, because in a year it means that practically all sublegal acts that would regulate the status of institutions of national importance for the Republic of Serbia will be essentially adopted in the second half of the school year 2019/20, i.e. this would mean that it would most likely not apply until 2020/2021. If we accept the amendment I filed, then these sublegal acts could be passed within six months. In doing so, I have made sure that this deadline will be essentially until 15 August of this year, i.e. that, practically, before the start of this school year, we have prepared all the sublegal acts that will regulate, given that they have obtained the status of institutions of national importance, some of their rights and obligations that they automatically enforce from that status. Why do I think this is important? Someone will say, I'm sure, not you, of course, but someone who's looking at this can say, well, when we've waited so many years to declare these two schools of national importance, what does one year mean? If you ask me, one year means a lot, because one school year is one generation of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51762	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51763	While we were talking, Minister, in my previous address, I received some messages from people from the education who listened to us and said that I should have said that "Vulkan" is the company that publishes textbooks in Serbia and that they use textbooks printed by "Logos" in Croatia. This is the problem I was telling you about earlier, that they have this restraint from the director that in some way they are not allowed to order these "Vulkan" textbooks, because the director, according to what he got from the Ministry, could have problems if one of the parents rebelled. As part of this, the amendment that I have proposed on behalf of the parliamentary group to this member, but before I say anything about the amendment, I have also received a message where teachers, ministers, ask what will happen to the electoral foreign language, will there be a numerical evaluation and have an objection to what the Russian language in the fifth grade, as another foreign language is described? Well, please, if you have information about it, here's what you see, they listen to us, so let's answer them. Why do we think that this local parenting council should be deleted, or that it shouldn't exist? So, I've already said, the directors are afraid that parents will rebel over the choice of students, and those parents who have been elected here will rebel and how you are here and wrote about why in the explanation, why don't you accept the amendment, say that your parents' advice is undeniable, that they contribute greatly to the promotion of educational and educational work. I'd really like you to explain to us how it is, but it's stuck, you say, as well as the conditions, of taking the teaching process on a local level. Now, that's what we think can't be a reason for someone to be a member of this council, because he's got some kind of dinar, so he's going to invest something in that school to get his kid privileged. That's what's going on. This isn't just a line being said, it's happening, I've told you three times or more today, what we're telling you is really what we get as information from the field. You know, I suppose what the Italian writer said that a country that destroys its education is not only doing it because of lack of resources, but because the country is governed by those who have no education, who have no right to education and who fear educated people because they themselves are uneducated. It does not apply to us alike, but it may be a continuation of what Martinovic tried to defend a little sooner and not only to Nikolic, but to all these diplomas, and there is much about you of those people who are formally educated, essentially not and then they are pushing these parents who can and can buy a diploma and can buy, unfortunately, teachers that his child would be privileged even though he beats other children, although the teacher must not "A" tell him, because he says - Now my dad will come, you know he painted the classroom. That's what's going on. And, you have to stand in the way of the state must provide funds for all that is necessary in a material sense for the functioning of each school and these local parent advice in that case will have no role, nor are they professional, nor are they, you know, parent is every subjective. You cannot expect a parent to objectively talk about a problem involving his child or a friend of his child, of relatives, etc. This job is strictly about the profession. They're teachers. You've completely demoted the teachers, and you have to give them their reputation back, you have to give them their dignity back. A teacher must be a teacher. The teacher must be who you were, Mr. Sarcevic, when you were a teacher. Did anyone dare to shoot you in the classroom? I don't believe you beat the kids, but you were the authority not to let them do this to you. Teachers now have no authority because the laws and attitudes of the ministry towards schools, while the directors of these some local council parents, etc., teachers have lost credibility, and thus primary and secondary education. Work on it, don't be a minister who'll be remembered for being educated in his time, I don't know how many functionally illiterate people. Unfortunately, they come out of elementary school, you know that kids finish primary school, they don't know how to read. The teacher can't give the unit, Dad will come and make a mess. Please work to restore the reputation of education, the reputation of schools, then it will be recognizable and every acquired diploma and every set exam and every teacher who eventually stirs with someone, etc. This way, both honorable and dishonest, you've thrown everything into one pile, all to the detriment of total education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51764	I will give my word to the Minister, just to confirm our mandates to the new MPs. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given RIK's decisions on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the seats. Reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues have been sent to you, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27, paragraph 5. The Law on the selection of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Nemanja Radojevic, Vojin Biljic and Andriani Avramovic, the electors of the election list DJB – Saša Radulović and MPs Violeta Lutovac and Milan Ljubic, elected from the electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the competent committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Nemanja Radojevic, Vojin Biljic, Andrijana Avramovic, Violeti Lutovac and Milan Ljubic. Dear Members of Parliament, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly approach the oath and read with me the text. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs and MPs to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you on your behalf and on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your election for MPs and to wish you successful joint work in the current term. We continue the work when you sign the oath text and hand it over to the Secretary-General. Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51765	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, at the beginning of the presentation, I would like to thank the Ministry for its position on the proposed amendment. I really think that by answering together that we should adopt this amendment, we have also made a kind of contribution to the proposed law being good, to make something better, a common contribution to one important thing that we have good laws that regulate an area like education. I think it's an uncontested state interest, an interest in all of us. When we talk about the National Assembly, and today different attitudes have been heard in this room, one thing should not be disputed, and that is that we have a clear common interest in having our education arranged in the best possible way, a clear common interest for students, to give students the best we can at some point, a clear common interest that we should also think about their future, to try to get today the best that the state can provide, but that as far as tomorrow they are willing to go out on the labour market, to create on it, to show both their creativity and their capacities and their talents and knowledge that they have acquired. We need to work on these things today to be ready for tomorrow. During today’s debate, there were different issues. Among other things, there were questions about what it is that we can do today to show young people that they have a perspective in this country? A lot, ladies and gentlemen, we can, just like a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen, the state is doing today. Some will say more, some will say it can go faster, but no one will be able to stay serious in this debate, say it does not. No one will be able to remain serious in this debate and say that there are no things that we can see with our eyes, which have been introduced into practice, that have been brought into existence. There were questions - what's going on with schooling today? There have been delays, some proposals have been adopted, some solutions in the period behind us in this National Assembly that are not feasible in practice, which are not applicable at all. Well, among other things, today it is said in this hall -- dual education cannot be applied in practice, dual education cannot live in our country, and it is further said that it is not even in the serious countries of the world, along with several examples that are listed in some countries that do not have such programs. However, it is not said to have one, for example, in Germany. I don't think it's a failed country. I don't think that if Serbia wants good examples of the practices that exist, for example in Germany, to implement, that something is wrong. These are good examples that come from a very successful world. What happened to Austria? It's not even some synonym for a failed country, is it? With Switzerland. It's not like it reminds some of the countries that don't know what they want and don't know how to arrange opportunities for themselves, is it? I think these are all the opposite examples, examples for some who are able to plan well, think ahead and show their results when Serbia has decided to introduce dual education and has. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it's a practice, something that exists for 4,500 students. So, when it's said that it won't be possible in Serbia, for the record, but today it can, and today it can, for 4,500 students in our country, as far as such programmes go. It's a fact-finding situation in 83 vocational schools in this country today. It is today a fact of 33 different educational profiles and today it supports more than 600 companies in this country because it sees that it has full meaning, because it sees that it is good and useful both for these schools and for those children, but also for those companies that want to participate in these programmes. That education is one of the things that we can be proud of, all of us who participated in being adopted and implemented in practice. So there's a way, and it doesn't just exist, it works very successfully. And those who may not have supported the proposal should not be angry. They also made their contribution by participating in the debate, making their contribution by perhaps making things better for us, which they may have suggested in the walk, and making a suggestion. What I think is good, and some may not agree, may not be considered a criticism of themselves, they have contributed in a certain way to this being so good and successful, and today, by just being here and talking, some contributions to society give, unlike those who have again decided to pay their salaries, their flat-rate, those diaries that charge and those travel expenses put in their pocket, and not to repay society, not to the state in any way. I mean, the ones that defil there again down the hall, they hold press conferences every half hour and talk all the same, but they can't make out that they don't give up all those things that go directly into their pockets, if they've decided to give up everything else that's connected to the National Assembly. It just doesn't explain it. But that's the story of them. The story of Serbia and what it is doing and what it is already providing to children who are studying today cannot be touched by the fact that more than 100 facilities have been rebuilt and built for preschool education and education, as well as education and education in primary and secondary schools. More than 109 for those who said nothing happened, it is in this country. That's a big difference. And we talked about it, and then we said that for more than 1600 different institutions today, the internet was provided, and sometimes the children could only dream of it, secure and the technique they would use, but provided and access free and fast, quality, that today our children can compete with their peers, be ready for what awaits them tomorrow. That's what we can do, but not only can we, that's what we do for those kids today. When we form those new departments, so we provide in these famous ones, today these abbreviations are popular, IT departments, in these information technologies, when we provide what is the most recent knowledge, what the world today uses as a global trend and thinks it's good, because it's important for the future of the state of the world. Today we are thinking in a smart way both today and we think about that future, so we are working on these modern programs today as a practice. It is not something that will never come to life in Serbia. It's something that exists in this country in more than 40 or 50 different institutions. What can we do and what else can we do better? Not only do we make sure these young people have good conditions during their education, and we provide them with these laws as well. And we said, more scholarships will be provided than they have now. Is that small? And better conditions in dorms. Is that small? But we're also thinking about that job that's waiting for them tomorrow. In person, more than 150 different factories, different plants in this country were opened by Aleksandar Vukic. Why do you think? Because it's a nice number, it sounds nice when you say it in a debate like this? No, but because it means bread on the table for hundreds of thousands of people in this country, and even for those kids we talk about today as they go to school, that their parents can put that bread on the table tomorrow when they finish schooling, that those kids have a place to work, that they have, when they form their families, where to earn, so they can take care of them. There's literally from the northernmost point to the southernmost point in this country as many examples as you want, from place to place to go, we'll find good examples everywhere. True, those who have turned their attention to it are right. More than 4500 different companies in this country, unfortunately shut down, was devastated during a time when the former regime of Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, DS, unfortunately, asked something. But there's no place where you won't find an example to find a solution or find that solution today, to bring someone, to literally bring investors from all over the world, so well and so successfully, that our entire region doesn't have as much investment when you look at the annual level and the annual amount that the Republic of Serbia has. That can be done. It's already been done in this country. And the wages to take care of. Did we vote in this assembly for the wages to be increased just a month ago? You bet we are. In the public sector, we said, the Assembly can decide, decide, raise wages. Remember what was the biggest grudge of those who now know everything and everything, but they just decided to know everything and everything the moment when they had no more responsibility, and they well filled their pockets before that, both Gilas and Jeremic, etc.? What was their biggest grudge? Well, you're making a lot of payments now, you're exaggerating, it's bigger than the level of growth. Well, I'm increasing thanks to the fact that now there's a cash register in the plus, which is stable, which is what the surplus has, not like it used to be based on party deals and dealings, sometimes before the elections, sometimes a little blurry coalition partner. There are no such things in Serbia anymore. Today in this country, it is based on sound economic logic, based on household resonation. Have we managed to create a little more together in the register? We did. Great. Now, on the basis of what we have, which is secure, which no one can threaten, we can finance good things, well, among other things, to increase people's wages where we can. Yes, the growth was plus 4.4, but some wages increased 7%, 9%, but it can't be bad. First, this growth of 4.4, so we did it and built it, we tortured it, but we did it, and it can't be said about it, Gilas, in whose time this growth was not growth, but a fall – 3.1. On our plus 4.4, we should all be proud of this country, on the salary, when it's even bigger than that 4.4 because we earned it, because we provided money for it, too, to be proud, and no one else can threaten it. Pensions too. At times, 60% of pensions had to come up with a way to fund it. Now there's almost half the amount that the old state has to be about. It's a fantastic result and nobody's serious about it. No one serious. Once again, on Gilas, Jeremic, his Dvori, with all their gallows and others from the yellow company, who served them while their companies flourished and 500m euros, so there was little for each of them. I don't think about them at all when I say serious people. To make sure that in this country what is done goes to the right things. We can influence that, and we can affect it today. Infrastructure to be made. So, that these kids have a good education, that they have a job tomorrow, that they have good knowledge, but when they look around and see that the conditions for life are better. So let's say, and this famous Corridor 10 we're talking about these days, how many decades have been thinking about maybe someday it'll be nice to have something like that? It's today, ladies and gentlemen, reality. That's what we can do. That's my answer to the question, and that's what we're doing today. And other corridors, roads, road infrastructure, you heard Alexander Vukic talking about it yesterday and this morning, all over the eastern country, in the western parts of Serbia, where we should and where we already have serious plans and projects, some things are already ending, other things are starting. Among other things, we solve some infrastructure with these agreements we adopt at this session, but this is happening in Serbia today, and Serbia has changed dramatically. That relationship is different. Where there's been a fall, now there's growth. Where the salary was at the time of those 330-euro geniuses, it is now 465. No matter how much they philosophy and talk, it's not 500, so it's not now, but it will be. It can't compare to 470 or 500 to their 320. It's incompatible, that's what people see. Can't have a minimum price today, a minimum salary of 27,000 and a little more dinars to compare to their 15. It's going to be this one of 27,000 and something bigger, and it can be done. I can't hear the comments on the other side, who came over? Shevarlic. Good afternoon. I see you've given up on the boycott. All right. So he can take care of these things as much as he does today. A serious state does these things and takes care of that infrastructure and manages to build it. In miles of highways, they will never be able to compete with Aleksandra Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party and the governments we support, those whom they only have to offer Serbia's policy of hanging. There's one important thing we can't forget, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. With all that we can do and what we do, since we talked today about education and education, we must not forget that we keep telling these children that it is very important that they love their country, that it is very important that every day they ask what I can do additionally for my Serbia and that they are aware that every day when everyone in this country is asked that we do well for ourselves and for all the people around us, that they know that Serbia is always loved, that it is hard to do for it, that the state must not steal, that they could not learn on the case either Gilas, or Jeremic, or others, and that its country is always treated with respect, that no one in this country should ever think of doing anything like what Vuk Jeremic did, that he would give mercy to any journalist from the region, to say that his country, that Serbia is responsible for the accident that it happened to the former Yugoslavia, that Serbia had caused the blood of Serbia to destroying all our people, that it was responsible for Serbia’s future. It's a human shame. A decent man should not allow himself to do so, and he would never allow anyone who tried at least every day to think about their country and how important it is and how valuable it is to keep it, how important and valuable it is to work for it, and not to look at the ways in which you can benefit yourself in life, such as Gilas and Jeremic from anything, or from your own country. These are the things we can and must do. Let them watch what they will and how they will. Let them continue to say, as they already did, that nothing matters to them, that nothing is sacred to them, that anything here can be said, under the gallows of marches as if they were standing under a bouquet of flowers, and that these topics, such as education, and institutions, such as the colleges have to say only the following, once again a quote of that genius they sent to that truck, were sent by Gilas, Jeremic and others through the mouth of some Vidojkovic, I think that you, Mr. Risticevic, were today showing his photograph, I don't even know who it was, but the one they sent to – the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, so you know, about the respectable institution, this poor guy has declared himself, is a lot of incredible smells, an incredible scum and a lot of crime. And then he added there's an antihero and a jerk. So, stink, scum, crime and jerks. That's their opinion, their attitude about something that should be worth it to everyone, which we should all be worried about together. And so they made it clear what they think about that college, what they think about the university, what they think about the students, what they think about all the people who finished that college and who today, honestly doing, are trying to make this country better. We can worry about these things and that's the answer to the question of what we can do today. Once again today, thanks to the serious and responsible relationship established by the personal example of Aleksandar Vukic, we do so. If we will and need more, we will, don't worry, and the citizens know it. They know we never lied when we said it wasn't the end. For everything we've accomplished so far, well done, we've got something to look forward to, but, you know, it's not over. Every time, but every time we picked up the ladder more. Every time, but every time we did, we got a new result to make. It's because they know that we're honest and successful in that. Serbian citizens know that we are giving the right answers to these questions and Serbian citizens absolutely support Alexander Vukic and our policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51766	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the basis of a system of education and education. This law comes from children to the full use of all their potentials, to develop their minds, to express their opinions and things like that. There's nothing disputed about that. But if we get a little bit deeper on the subject, let's scratch this one, we'll see that there's a problem here. Namely, what's this about? All that is recommended for children is not the case with the teaching staff. So children are given full creation, full of freedom, all opportunities, and teachers, on the other hand, are limited from all sides. We have, therefore, the situation that we've come to where we didn't intend to. The teacher is not left with any freedom in achieving the curricula and programme. They are limited by many different rules, regulations, ministers' decisions, decisions by other authorities. The latest recommendation from the Ministry of Education on the introduction of electronic journals is now under way. Of course, as an educational worker, I support it, nothing is disputed, but if we see what these electronic journals contain, we will literally see that it is another addition to his freedom in his creative work. So, literally, that's where it's supposed to be, that every moment must be known and where the teacher is, when he has to fill out the grades, the hour and everything else. (President: Time. Thank you. So I think these things need to be paid a little more attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51768	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 20th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51769	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System should affect the improvement of quality of education and education. We have proposed amendments that we want right now to improve the efficiency of the education system itself, and that was our primary goal. What they would support in this law is to specify the provisions relating to the education of teachers, educators and professional associates in schools for education and education of students with disabilities and disabilities. It is good that now a new subject appears – the methodology continues for this profession at the current Faculty of Special Education and Rehabilitation. By correcting you, Minister, in principle, you said that there were no subjects in the old Defectology Faculty relating to teaching methods. According to the old programme and at the University of Defectology, at least the one that I finished, the methods of teaching Serbian language, mathematics, then knowledge of nature and society in relation to direction, whether it was persons with visual impairment, hearing, and according to this were – a method of skills and of course we support the introduction of a new subject – a methodology at the Faculty of Special Rehabilitation and Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51770	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 32nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51771	Mr. Minister, this is in your term the third amendment to this law and what is now necessary is to tell us – why, the amendment that I have submitted, which concerns that deadline, takes a year for the ministry to coordinate the sublaws? Our proposal is to have it in 90 days, and here's why. You need to speed up the adoption of all acts and the laws you mentioned an hour ago, about pay grade. Now you will be understood by the people whose authority you are from the education that this applies only to them. No, the Law on Payment Classes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Ana Brnabic, was previously Vukic, before that, Ivica Dacic, when you inherited everything from this failed Dossier government, should have been brought long ago. For what? Because there are huge discrepancies in the same professions in different institutions and institutions in direct and indirect budget users. That's not fair. That's not good, because, as you say and promise it, then that Zlatibor Loncar, who is a disastrous health minister whose shift we've been looking for because of his malversions, didn't even promise to do it. That's why we've got medical personnel drains and technicians and doctors and specialist doctors. It's impossible to work more in these conditions, that one rule applies to one rule and another to the other. Besides, what's the problem? Is the budget problem? You know, when you bring it in and if you bring it in in this assembly and in this government, the Payment Class Act will require a certain amount of funding for individual professions and individual professions. You're boasting that everything is great, that in the budget of the maltene surplus, how the standard has been increased. So come on, reward those people for your work. When talking about the basics of the education system in Serbia and putting things in place, what you need now, since this is the last amendment that I have and my colleagues from the SRS, to be a message is that the entire education system should be directed towards a student, towards someone who is educated, and not according to the subject and inflation of these subjects, you have both university professors and lecturers in primary schools, which is so much so that in some, like the one where Nikolic studied, or lied to study and various other phantoms, such that you no longer know what it is for you to have such non-stop objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51772	Parliamentarians Ivan Bauer, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Slavica Zivkovic together submitted the 33rd amendment. The word is from Ambassador Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51773	I thank the president. Very briefly, Your Honor, this is an amendment that changes Article 33 to that amendment that I have already spoken about, which is being amended by Article 12 of this Law. The proposal is for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" instead of the eighth day of publication. Why? Because if I were to follow that suggestion that I made when I spoke about the amendment to Article 12 of this Law, and if we were to respect this suggestion, then the sublegal act would be passed until August 15th of the current year, and this would say that we gave time to schools, i.e. the John Jovanovic Dragon High School from Novi Sad and Mathematical High School from Belgrade, which were declared institutions of national importance for the Republic of Serbia, by that date would be practically defined their status and their rights and obligations, i.e. we would give them enough time to prepare for a new school year and to enter into the new school year with their new status and with their corresponding, I suppose, rights and obligations. If it were to remain as it is now in the legal solution, then the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts would be about 20 and some February of the following year, essentially losing one school year. So, as I've already said in the previous presentation, maybe someone would say who's watching this transmission that one school year isn't so important when we've waited so many years for this law to be passed, but I believe and believe that many of me agree that one school year means a lot, because that one school year is one generation of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51774	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 3 of the amendment, Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51775	Although this amendment has been accepted, Mrs Gojkovic, I just want to say in a few sentences, when we talk about this law, again to point out the need to pass the Payments Law because it directly refers to employees who care about the student standard in Serbia, because you have an example, and I will make it an illustration that it is necessary, let's say, that the coefficient in preparing food for chefs who do this job in one of Belgrade's student or student homes is 11.6, and in Kragujevac or in another town is for three index points lower, or seven and something. It's a big injustice, because they do the same job for less money. In order to help these students and students who need to have everything neat and clean and there are all other accompanying professions, starting with maids, lodgers, etc. and if we insist that it be regulated by one law, not to intertwine jurisdiction and to do so in the coordination of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Economy and Economy, that is, finance and the Ministry of Labour. So five ministries need to be involved in order to do this job right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51776	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, if necessary. The amendment was submitted to the 4th Amendment by a Member of the People of Radet. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51777	This amendment concerns the basic Article 11. When you look at this Article 11. The law on student and student standards, then we see that they have the right to a student scholarship, and then some conditions are listed, students who have an average rating of at least nine. We discussed here two days ago the proposals of the High Council for Judges who were first elected and there we were not told what the average of one of these students was, therefore, that is, those studies were potential when they were students. So when it doesn't suit you then you're going to hide the average, and where it should be a little bit more flexible, then here you're saying that a student scholarship can only get a regular student who has an average of nine. This is too much. It's really too much, because Serbia is a poor country, which Ana Brnabic doesn't know, and she said yesterday that poverty was rooted out, a poor country. It's a big problem for parents to send children to study at university centers. Students who receive student credit won't have to work through a student cooperative, spend time making money to pay for an apartment if they're not in a dorm and, perhaps, by doing these jobs, they don't have enough time to learn to achieve that result, an average of nine in that institution where they study. So somehow you don't look at life, you don't see what's the reality of this society, this state, this people, but you kind of sit in the cabinet and then you come up with some, you know, ideas -- yeah, you could do this, you could do that. That's precisely because, according to that previous law and amendment, I was saying, because it is consciously working on destroying the school system because ministers who have regular diplomas are surrounded by those who don't have it, and then undereducated, of course, they don't want to be educated around them, and with that undereducated, they're most easily manipulated. For years, we draw attention to every minister, every government, that the state must provide as many benefits as possible for these students in order to create conditions for them to study regularly, to be good students. He's also a good student if he has an average of eight and has an average of 8.5. The one at nine and ten is great, but the ones who aren't great must have the conditions to get that student scholarship. Also, the objection to this member is to call a competition. It stands here when a student scholarship competition is being held, but every time the state authorities discuss some competitions, the other day and on a committee I was saying, competitions are being debated, say, in the official messenger, they're being interviewed on the site, they're being interviewed in a newspaper that has a circulation of 1,500 copies and then, of course, everyone's interested and they don't know there's some kind of competition and they can apply. So, I hope the minister hears what we said, so he'll think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51778	On Article 4th of the amendment, MP Dubravko Bojic submitted with a correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 4 of the existing Article 11 paragraph 13, where the word "teacher" is replaced by the word "legal agent". The Serbian Radical Party considers the proposed change to be a alignment with the Family Law of the Republic of Serbia. One who intends to improve the quality, availability and fairness of education and education, and the government is moved to do so, must have a comprehensive concept of it, not a patch by piece, and lose valuable time in such an important area as education. It's too much in our legislative practice of harmonising, changing and supplementing, because it's always better that stew that's being cooked all of a sudden than the one that's being prepared. Unlike the Proposal for a Law on Fundamentals of Education and Education, as well as the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was passed about a year ago, the Law on Student and Student Standard has been in force for eight years. It deserves attention that some changes and additions have been made based on existing positive practices provided to the Ministry by institutions of student and student standards. Of all the changes, totalling 14, plus a total of 10, only five are the result of the positive practice of institutions in this area. So this is just one draft law review, a type of whether "rest" is a broader concept than "recovery", which, according to the bill, does not, functionally and essentially, improve the concept of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51780	Thank you. Your group has wasted their time. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does he want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on student and student standards. Even though there are some things in this law that treat students and students in a better way than before, I think that the concept of this law is wrong, and because of that, it will not give much of the effect that is expected of it. If that were true, the intention of the law is, or the basic idea of the law, to stimulate those students and those students, to write down deficiting professions and to grant them scholarships. However, that is not the case in practice, and it is not exactly the best example of dual education, where we have recently had the opportunity to talk about it. When it comes to dual education, employers there are also obliged to pay a certain amount of money, giving a certain scholarship to students, however, our economy's other environment is such that most of them are unable to do so. Even some who are able, have a problem, have a fear that tomorrow if they give a student a scholarship, that they will not stay with him tomorrow, because the legal regulations and the contract that is signed don't talk about it having to be like that. So I think we should have made this approach a little bit more serious here, of course, student and student scholarships should be given, they should be extended to the extent possible, based on the budget and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51782	Thanks, time. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51783	The Law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards refers to amendments to Article 12 of the already existing law, and that member regulates the procedure and procedure for students and students, for the use of student or student accommodations, so that they can stay there, that some extracurricular, additional activities still practice. Procedures are prescribed here as to how and under what conditions this student, or student accommodation can be used. We look forward to the fact that this article provides that the decision to use these capacities is made by the ministry, that is what we have always advocated. We just wanted to say here, if a student or student isn't satisfied, who can appeal to such a decision. So we said that instead of guardians, he'd be a legal representative. I think that would be a more comprehensive solution. The minister is not here right now, I suppose for objective reasons, his presence cannot be challenged here, there is one correctness, but I would ask his associates. I have one piece of information from the Uzic dormitory. In fact, that's where the home was made five or six years ago, maybe the data I'm presenting isn't absolutely accurate, but you should know that there are a lot of gaps there. It was done five or six years ago and every generation since October starts to say that it will be home for students up to 31, or until New Year's Eve, and the year it is then in progress. That's how the last generation of students said it would be, but that's not the case yet. A home that works as a dormitory is absolutely unconditional. It's about some barracks. The price of that accommodation when compared to the price in Belgrade, four or five times lower, speaks of the quality that is there. I'd just like to get to the answer. I guess it's probably licenses or something, but we have a minister, or a minister of construction who says there's no problem, that everything works out the best way, so if you don't mind, try for those students to solve it. Surely that would mean better quality conditions for preparation, teaching and all that students are expected to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51784	The 10th Amendment was filed by Ruzica Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Philip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51785	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards. And this, as well as my other amendments I have submitted, is intended to point out that this is a very serious matter. Unlike other European countries, Serbia has the misfortune that one part of it remains under occupation by those who bombed us in 1999. This is the best indicator of irresponsibility, because no normal government gives its most significant natural resources to the management of foreigners, especially those who have been proven through history as our enemies. Namely, since I was born in Kosovo and Metohija, where I lived until I was forced to leave my home hearth, I want to ask the Minister next – are our children and our students studying and living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija exercising the rights that enable them to do so? What makes the minister of education, for example, children in Serb enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija, benefit from the law? Does the Ministry of Education bear the expenses of traveling students? Whether schools in the Serb environments in Kosovo and Metohija have educational means such as those in other parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51786	The 11th Amendment, with correction, was filed by Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51787	Thank you. We feel that it is necessary to define a matter clearly when adopting the Amendments and Supplements Act, so we in the SRS have submitted this amendment to Article 11. The proposer of Article 11 shall be amended by Article 17 of the basic law relating to educational and disciplinary measures and procedures for breach of the obligation of students. We have proposed amendments to attitude 5 by replacing the point with a comma and adding a text – i.e. a legal representative. The opinion of the SRS parliamentary group is that this amendment should not be rejected by the proposings, as it is about harmonising this law with the family law of the Republic of Serbia. The 5th position is – for easier violation of the student's obligation, it is mandatory to strengthen the educational work of the institution and parents. Already in the upcoming positions of Article 17, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the legislator, besides parents, includes provisions of this law and guardians of the pupils and other legal representative, so that we can say that the 5th technical error was left out and that the technical error could be corrected. By adopting this amendment, the SRS parliamentary group, on the other hand, would have more clearly defined provisions, based on the provisions of the family law of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51788	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, the SRS has submitted a number of amendments to this law. When it comes to student standards and standards, I think the state needs to pay more attention. We would not be in a situation if Serbia left in a short time for 600,000 young people abroad to work, not by God knows better conditions, but what they would do in Serbia, but Serbia as a state must consider paying more attention to students and students and their standards. That depends a lot on the authority of local self-government. I come from Panchev as a folk MP and I can make objections to the student standard, and also not enough funds to be allocated to the student standard. As the national one says, it doesn't matter how many soldiers a country has, but it matters how many teachers there are, how many engineers there are, how many doctors and those who can get the state out and, above all, support it and develop all areas of social life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51790	Thank you. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, with correction, MP Zoran Despotovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51791	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. This amendment, like all amendments of the SRS, aims to indicate that it is a very serious issue that leaves long-term consequences. This law is firstly adopted for reasons to bring it into line with new legislation in the field of secondary and higher education. It's not a dispute, but whether it'll lead to an improvement in student and student standards, I personally don't think it will. It's all about some regulations that are constantly changing, which always ignores the essence. Students need to equalise or draw closer to the standard in EU countries, and we work backwards here. We agree with EU countries, and these rules are generally inadmissible to our conditions. On the other hand, regulations are still regulations while real life is something else entirely. The more these rules, the more we lag behind in real things for EU countries, and that should be the other way around. We, gentlemen, are a agricultural country, so that education can also be directed in that direction. The system of education, gentlemen of ministers, changes and determine how much and what best personnel Serbia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51792	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on arms and ammunition in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Gordana Comic on the bill. You have received reports from the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51794	Yeah, I want a word. I want to tell the public first of all, Mr. Arsic, that you were very incorrect in this completion of the afternoon. The SRS parliamentary group informed you that 10 minutes ago, we were going to the Venezuelan Embassy to sign an open letter and support to the Venezuelan people and their president, and you took the time to read the amendments and our names for the proposal of the law on the Serbian literary community, to get, what, 10 minutes and not to hear 10 minutes of what we were saying. Very incorrect, but it's not the first time. As regards this amendment to the Bill of Weapons and Ammunition, Article 50 of the Basic Act, which states in its first position that natural persons who owned arms sheets and personal security permits, as well as legal persons and entrepreneurs who had the authorisation to hold arms issued under the law which was in force until the application of this law, were obliged to: "within three years from the date of application of this law, they submitted a request for the issue of the document, together with the assurance of the health capacity to hold and carry arms, in accordance with this law." I purposely read this whole attitude to draw attention to the fact that this is prescribed, that you adopted this in 2015. And is it possible the Ministry hasn't been able to finish this job since 2015? What your appeals have made an impression on the citizens of Serbia, and that is, of course, what you are now asking for to be applied to this article and this attitude moved to March 5th, 2020. So, what these government members themselves are prescribing to themselves, I say, to themselves, because everything that those in the government send to the congregation majority, about often MPs don't know exactly what they're adopting, or what's on the agenda. After all, one assembly majority MP said on a TV show that there are so many amendments and he says – believe me, sometimes I don't even know what I voted for, so when it's over, I'll check to see what it's all about. Don't laugh so I don't say what MP it is. So, precisely because of your relationship with the National Assembly and generally because of the congregation’s relationship with the National Assembly, we have cases and situations like this. Instead of asking the minister then, in 2015, where did he get the idea to prescribe a three-year deadline, you didn't ask him then, he came now, extending the deadline for another year. So this is another one, we know that you will accept this, but we wrote this amendment on purpose to explain to the public and citizens of Serbia what the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly and citizens is. So they translate the law, they write, they write the deadline. The fact that they do not respect the deadline, no one will ask them today why the job is not completed by March 5, 2019, and what will be done for another year. The Minister of Resorni isn't here, so we can't expect the amendment to be accepted, and how will he when the job isn't finished? So, gentlemen of the government, or Mr. Sarcevic, tell the others to be a little more serious about the National Assembly, when you plan on doing something that makes sense, then make it real. Well, in one of your laws, you've set a deadline, it seems to me, for a year or two, for sublegal acts, which is absolutely unacceptable, Mr. Sarcevic. When you come to the National Assembly with a bill of law, I guess services are working in parallel with the bill, and some future sublaws, especially when you know that those in the congregation majority are going to vote whatever you write, they won't even read it. If it wasn't for us, no one in Serbia would know what the government is offering Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51795	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected viewers, you who follow this transmission, says: "I swear that I will perform the duty of the People's MP in a committed, fair, safe and faithful constitution to defend human rights and freedoms and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice by my best knowledge and skill." Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have sworn this oath. I will support the amendment and vote for amendment Gordana Komic, even if she does not come to the vote. It won't be my first time, you can check, that I have supported more amendments to the opposition than they have voted for those amendments. I'll do her duty as well. What I can't believe is that Gordana Komic is walking, boycotting the National Assembly with hangers. So, those of us who protest for days are accusing us of censorship, dictatorship, fascism. What kind of censorship and dictatorship is that when you talk about it so much and write about it? What kind of dictatorship and censorship is that? What kind of fascism is that? We fascists, and they walk with the Latvians. We fascists, and they wear gallows. Who's the fascist here? Who are these walking people? They are against reality, and they participate in Gilas' greatest reality. He founded in Serbia a reality called "Great Brother", he had a reality called "48 Hours Wedding". Do they now participate in the wedding or in “the Great Brother ”? Anyway, what happens on Saturdays and what happens in the halls of the National Assembly is Gilas's greatest reality that he's ever made. They stand for the poor, they play some left-handed, and they walk with multimillionaire Gilas, in his favor. They're like fairy tales for workers, for peasants, for the poor, and they go into a machine with those who fired 400,000 people, who took all the social capital, the entire social capital of this country, everything that was ours became theirs. The multimillionaire Gilas and 500m euros he earned in the market game, but only while he was in office, which he earned in RTS over the 48 hours of the wedding, which he earned, and they advocated the children in the pioneer town, taking away the object, which he earned by broadcasting, they don't care about Pink. When Gilas broadcast on three of Pink's Big Brother channels, that TV was good for him. When they shared frequencies, they shared them with their own. Now that their parents sold you TV stations, they're not good at it. But they were the ones who gave them the privilege of having frequencies, of having national frequencies, of allowing them to have cables, of not giving cable systems to Solak, which are supposed to be worth 2.6 billion. How many Solak and Gilas have joint ventures? And today Gordana Comić is walking in the name of the working class, in the name of freedom of law, of the human rights for which they stand. Where are these new MPs, Mr. Martinovic? Where are they? Joined, ten-and-a-half with the bow. Right on the table. Mr. Martinovic, if they make a request to these over, do you hear me, of course, if they apply for permanent work in the Assembly, those who have sworn to protect human rights in a safe, committed manner, and are going to walk under the gallows, today give the oath and the direction of the cafeteria. Don't by any chance, fellow MPs who are on the Administrative Board, make a decision to take them to permanent work and consider whether you have the right to pay for the apartments in Belgrade as Bosca Obradovic to pay for the apartment on Dedinj and today you pay for his apartment in Dedinj, and he boycotts the National Assembly and wears gallows on the streets of Belgrade to hang us. Who's he going to hang? They say the Wolf is their fault. He didn't sell the social capital, he didn't sell the factories. The PKK's low price is 130m euros, and high prices are three sugars per three euros for Miodrag Kostic. Let them say who is who came into existence in our time. Let them say when they had a stable rate for seven years, let them say when they had 2% inflation, let them say when they had GDP growth that now, even though their growth and when there was trade growth, they sold capital, they took money from the outside, and they bought other people's goods for money. That's not how they developed our production, it's what they did to someone else. They are trying to drive investors away, and they tell pensioners that they will increase their pensions, so no jobs, if you drive investors away, Mr. Obradovic, who of course you're not here, Mrs. Comic has an amendment that I am now defending, if Obradovic and the group, almost neo-Nazi, pro-fascist, if you drive investors away, which you think you pay your pensions for. Pensions are paid by insurance companies. Pensions are earned. It's been a while since you could pay your pension with a debt. We won't be in debt anymore. The earner needs to live, not the man in charge. They didn't know how to make money, they only knew how to spend it. Now that they've seen, a little bit in the cash register, now they'd get their hands on those cash registers again. Mr Martinovic, please check if you can end the work relationship, because when they boycott the National Assembly, they are also boycotting the working relationship. Let them be messengers, that is their right, but that we pay them an apartment, that we give them wages, that they walk under the gallows, and that they despise those who fulfill their vow of obligation and duty, and that is why I advise you not to accept them in the work of the people's congregation, even if they have come now. Today, Alexandra Jerkov, who had been trained by the CIA, must have been taught there, signed up to raise travel expenses. So it can, can be a cobweb, can be three thousand five hundred, can be a cobweb today, can be a travel trip to Novi Sad, but can't be a part of it. She's disgusting. We're not fancy lefties, like the fancy one named Marko Vidojkovic, who said he smells like law school professors, and he has a degree in first degree law school. Why does Mr. Minister have a first degree? Because they were students who didn't make it to the fourth year, and then they agreed to sign up for the first two years, so the Law School didn't go to him, and he didn't go to law school, because he was more around law school. Today it's his law school professors, because they don't strike, today it's the stink, the dogs, etc. It's this guy, ultra left-handed, fancy left-handed, smell of labor, smell of peasants, and invite them into the revolution. That's the one with the five-point chest. Shame on the socialists and the communists he has here. So he's embarrassing all over me and the five-pointer. Five-pointer is not what Marko Vidojkovic is, take a good look. Here with Anasonović, you see a beautiful Vietnamese woman, a fancy leftist, an ultra leftist, made an agreement with ours, with an ultra nationalist movement to welcome the president of the Republic and to spoil the state holiday of Meeting. That's them, the citizens of Serbia have that to know. It's the ones that aren't in any party. Here they are in the democratic Anasonovic, here they are with the American ambassadors, that is, with workers of the US Embassy, with diplomats. Here they are. Here's Sergei Trifunovic, the great actor someone says Sergei is a drug addict. So, which I admit to being that's it. Here they are. What the Americans do. They're not taxing communists in their own country, and they're asking us to establish Mark Vidojkovic, an ultra-leftist who calls for a revolution. Who's he calling for the revolution? They make a deal with the people, they call for a revolution, but peasants and workers smell it, they're lax, peasants, etc., they're those who vote, they're despised teachers who aren't on their side. They say they're talking shit. Only teachers who are loyal to them and strike are teachers. For them, those who patiently teach students who are dedicated to them are not real teachers. For them we are not the right messengers; for them are the ones who took the oath and fled after two minutes. Those are the Messengers for them. As far as weapons are concerned, I support the amendment to extend it and advise the government to take another look at these old hunters, who no longer hunt, who have hunting rifles, to do it to them as much as possible, to try to take down such people's taxes and taxes. Such state-of-the-art types should be given weapons, such as peasants and workers. Guys who are ultra left-handed like this should be taken from them because they're dangerous to the state. So, those wearing gallows should know, compared to London, they didn't hang the English from London, they were hanging from Serbia. So if you carry it through Serbia, it's the same thing if you carry through Tel Aviv a model of crematorium and a model of a gas chamber, that's just it. And that's why the Jewish community and the Jewish community rebelled, and that's why our people need to know. They don't have any program. Their program is a loose gallows worn by Nogo and other neo-Nazi frats. I am surprised Gordani Comic is now sitting in that society, standing, etc., and does not come to defend his amendment knowing its democratic definitions. I'll vote for her amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51797	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Natasa Jovanovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as a proposal on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, brought to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51798	Thank you. We have just heard the views, the legitimate views of colleagues from the ruling coalition, and the oaths of MPs, etc. Today, five MPs have sworn an oath here. Five of them have become MPs today, two from the list, so we've been read, the SNS, three from the list enough. Something very interesting happened that there were only two left on this side where he should sit. Enough was enough, and three went into the SNS. She has just sworn an MP and immediately stole her mandate and moved on to another parliamentary group. It is the most immoral thing that can happen in the National Assembly and that can happen to a MP. You can react any way you want and say you don't. As far as this amendment is concerned, I must say once again on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that we are really sorry that we did not exchange a word with Minister Vukosavljevic about the Serbian literary cooperative thanks to Mr Arsic, but in principle we said how important an institution is and we think that it should be given more attention to her, and we thought that it would take a different way to organise this executive part of the Serbian literary cooperative and to draw attention to what it would be good to print, so to deal with etc. But, well, I guess there's going to be a second chance, because here and about twice a year are changing laws, and this one's going to be next. As regards this proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear safety, this is also important for the public to know that this was a law, I think, in the last group of laws that we adopted in the regular session at the end of 2018. Is it possible that at that time the law was passed, that immediately, here, in the first extraordinary session, five of its members had to be changed? Of course, they change in a way that we Serbian radicals do not accept, some new institutions are being introduced. This concrete amendment applies purely to the technical correction, where we asked for the "Government" to stand beside the "Government of the Republic of Serbia". The explanation is that the government is a constitutional category and that for this reason our amendment is not accepted. The constitutional category is yes, but the National Assembly is also a constitutional term, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is said to be said, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia says. Our amendment isn't filed because we don't know what the Constitution says, but I'm afraid you don't know the best, and especially you don't know what the promise means, so you keep your promises. We've been saying since the beginning, ever since the agencies started, that we're against these para-state authorities, and one of these para-state authorities is this directorate and some kind of regulatory inspectors, etc. You and through this bill, as usual through almost all the laws you are proposing, are mostly going through something that is related to EU requirements and nobody cares whether it is applicable to us or how much it costs to the state, or to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's only important that you meet what you're asked to do. The day before yesterday we quoted, you yourself wrote, that agreement where the deal was held, you owe a million euros, that you made a commitment to this contract to spend that money in the interest, therefore, not according to some EU standards, but in the interest of the EU. Well, is it possible that everything in this country is done in the interest of the EU, and we will neither enter the EU nor they will, nor the people of Serbia, when the time comes to ask it? You're just going somewhere and you're getting worse on that road. You can talk as much as you want. Ana Brnabic said there is no more extreme poverty, and wherever you go, multiple families have no electricity, no water, no food, kids go to school, says they don't wear snacks to leave the smallest one so his mother can buy him milk. So, there's poverty, there's misery, and it's a government job to solve these things both through social programs and through social giving. It would be much better and more useful if those funds were allocated to any agency... You know, who's going to be the director of this department now? Can't someone who's already in a ministry do that, because this law provides for the takeover of a number of people from this ministry that Mr. Sarcevic runs? Now why do you need inventing some new functions, some new officials? There are few of you in office, and how many of you really deserve these functions both professionally and morally and in any other sense? After all, the ball slowly started to roll. It's gonna be that. When you boast, you know, when you arrest someone of your own, and you boast that you arrested him, instead of covering your ears and saying, "Oh, hook, where do we choose a criminal like this?" (President: Bringing the end. I'm bringing the end. Minister Sarčević, you are, and Minister Vukosavljevic was waiting for us to speak to him for nothing. He didn't give up Mr. Arsic. You're here, we talked, but, I'm afraid, a weak vision of that communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51799	Mr. Vukosavljevic was waiting, but you weren't there. On Article 4th of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51800	When the law was passed last year, we Serbian radicals were explicitly opposed to the establishment of a new directorate and what I want to rely on the previous presentation of a colleague is to direct Serbian citizens to the fact that there is already a nuclear security sector in Serbia, so that the directorate is what it will serve? This way of taking over by the Ministry of Environmental Protection Directorate is completely incomprehensible. Are you saying that, before the law was passed, the Ministry of Environmental Protection was unable to carry out that inspection? On the other hand, there are many, many reports of citizens and problems, such as in Lapovo, where citizens are rightly afraid of their own safety and suspect that a part of the waste, which has interference with certain nuclear waste, is being moved and deposited in the territory of their municipality. People don't know at all. When you say something like this, you know, it justifies the fear of everyone that it means. Are we at risk? No, Serbian citizens, it's about ionising radiation, there are a lot of doctors here, and above all everyone who works in that area needs to be protected, but on the other hand, you need to know that people who deal with these highly dangerous and risky jobs very often do not have the full and adequate most modern protection. They have it, but they do not have it in the right sense at the highest technological level as modern countries do, and you need to do that and that inspection surveillance is done in those places and areas, and especially in private companies that are entrusted with certain businesses, because in Serbia there are, which do not provide adequate protection for their employees. We therefore believe that everything should be returned within the framework of the competent ministry and that when you made the Law on Government, when you created the Ministries at the request of the coalition partners in 2016, you had to take care of all areas in Serbia, including those that are very delicate and for us who are not sufficiently directed in scientific terms and in terms of qualifications that we are talking about that there is such a ministry that will strictly deal with it, and not that some agencies and directors are established.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-13-0.u51801	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, February 14, 2019, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We'd be done with today's work.
