ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61916	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 55 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall. So we have conditions and quorum to work with. Requesting information and explanations pursuant to Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61917	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the beginning of this call to the National Assembly, the SRS has been pointing to the anomalies of the Rules of Procedure that was brought in at the time of the previous government. The Rules of Procedure favour the ruling party and power in the Serbian Parliament, and for the interests of democracy and for the quality of parliamentary life, it is always better for the opposition to have more space in the assembly. That hasn't changed, although, of course, the SNS bothered it at the time when it was an opposition party. We pointed to it, said what should be most urgent to change, and always pointed to events that always sort of happened to us in the electoral process, which violate, too, democracy in Serbia, and the ruling majority and power in Serbia always remained silent. Then, when the dictatorship came from abroad, all of a sudden everyone remembered how the Rules of Procedure should change and work in the Assembly should be improved at all, but then election conditions. So there is a humiliation to be organised in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by representatives, former MEPs of the European Parliament, and they are giving instructions on how the process of elections in Serbia and the assembly life should look. So, we ourselves don't know, we don't know how democracy works, how the Assembly should work, we will be taught by former MEPs, yet as a positive thing, the fact that they have improved the situation in northern Macedonia and Montenegro, when they have had problems with their parliaments. So, our parliamentaryism is being humiliated, one institution is being humiliated, the legislative authority in Serbia, by people coming without any legitimacy and importance to be the main organisers here and holding the elections in Serbia. I urge that the call be withdrawn, that the meeting be cancelled, that it be interrupted by the humiliation of the assembly. What is evident, and what we can see here from October 5th on here, is that for the EU and for the representatives of European bureaucracy and also some parliaments, such as. The Bundestags, therefore, also come here, and make us a policy and tell us what we need to do about Kosovo and the continuation of our European integration. For the EU, democracy is when there is in the Serbian Parliament that everyone is for the EU, that everyone is for signing legal-binding agreements with Kosovo, and in the perspective of Euro-Atlantic integration, why not, and not democracy and is not a good situation when there are parties that oppose the process of Euro-integration and Serbia's membership in the EU. That is why, above all, it should be cancelled, and it is the responsibility of the ruling majority to adopt the new Rules of Procedure, and even if there are problems in organising the elections and the election process, it is necessary for the parliamentary parties to resolve it without any foreign interference. And if we agree to that, then we will show that there is no democracy in Serbia, that we are a third-world country and that we ourselves do not know what parliamentary elections are, or what the National Assembly is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61918	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61919	Thank you. I would ask the question, ahead of the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party, the Ministerial for European Integration, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic, on the state of the European integration process, as in Serbia's progress towards the EU very often we say in the past elections that the European Parliament, the problems that the EU has about Bregzit, and in these reasons we find an excuse for our slow path towards the EU. I will now deal with only certain technical criteria and things that are exclusively in our jurisdiction and represent the jobs that only our administration has to do, so I would like to get an interpretation of why these things are late when our part of the job, which absolutely has nothing to do with the situation in the EU, the EU's readiness to expand and accept new Member States or any political will of any political player in our accession process and in the EU enlargement process. These are purely technical issues concerning some of our technical obligations. So there is something called a national action plan for the adoption of EU legal flows. It is a set of rules Serbia needs to adopt to adapt its legislation to EU legislation and the degree of fulfillment of the action plan at the end of the first half of this year was only 47%. These are technical, not political criteria, and they have nothing to do with political decisions. The agriculture ministry is one of the weakest when it comes to the percentage of meeting these technical criteria. Now there is one chapter that, I think, is clear, in the interest of all and that not even the Eurosceptics or those totally opposers of Serbia's EU accession have excessive objections to this chapter. It's Chapter 12 called food safety. So, the safety of food everyone eats, and those who are for the EU and those who are not. So, we all eat some food and we want to eat as safe food as possible, and I think we agree that European food safety standards are still something worth pursuing and trying to reach. This is now also the issue of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is one of the worst in meeting the technical criteria. So, for the opening of Chapter 12 -- food security there are three criteria that are very basic, very fundamental, they are not at all too demanding and there is no question that the EU dictates to us what we are going to do in our home, whether we are going to bake brandy in the spirit of the traditional Serbian household, or whether we are going to make square watermelons, there is none of it, it is a very basic thing. So, it is said, the first criterion, the EU's legal fluids in the area of food security, therefore, of those materials that need to improve food safety in our country, are implemented in our legislation. Someone in some working groups needs to sit down, write some laws that are technical, give them to the Assembly for adoption and put it on the agenda and discuss it. That in the congregation, unfortunately, isn't enough or enough. The second criterion is to write a national strategy and action plan to implement these legal flows in our legislation. First of all, in this action plan to define what administration we need to verify food safety, to verify high standards on food safety and how much budgets we need to do so. It's all very strategic, very fundamental, there's no overelection or any dictatorships. The third criterion is to establish a classification of food facilities or facilities which handle secondary products of animal origin and should later develop a national programme for the promotion of these objects. So, we have footage on social networks where some of our butchers drive rats out, etc. This should be some strategic, roof document that will put these things in order and hit high standards for the safety of citizens and the quality of food that everyone consumes. These are the basic criteria. Unfortunately, we have not yet fulfilled them, and this chapter is still not open, so we are interested in where and what is stuck, which is the problem, because the fact that this chapter is not open leads to suspicion of the administrative and technical and professional capacities of the competent ministries to raise food safety to a higher level, and in the interest of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61920	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61921	Thank you. I called on the government, the Ministry of Energy and Ecology, two weeks ago, from this same place, to warn the government about events on the Old Mountain, especially in Toplo Dol, about construction, or incidents in the construction of a mini power plant. It wasn't the first or the last incidents. That's when I said, quote, almost literally, that it's not happening in Belgrade, that it's not written by the world's media doesn't mean it doesn't matter. The state and the authority of the state are recognised precisely in how they react to incidents in some of the state's remote parts, because every part of the state is equally important. What I said at the time was, unfortunately, how much more violent, even more dramatic events occurred yesterday, incidents in Toplo Dol, where there was a new physical, with a bloody outcome, conflicts between locals and those supported by both investors and security in the construction of the mini power plant. My question goes, that is, my appeal and request goes to the same address, so the government, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Energy. Intervention as soon as possible, not until blood falls, blood has already fallen, as much as yesterday, we've seen broken heads, broken arms, but before they're dead. So, we are witnessing that when it comes to events, unkind and unpleasant in front of the City Assembly or in front of the Presidency building, there are special expertise, special emissions, minority var technology we call for help to see that the raised hand is separated from the body, whether someone has gone head-to-head, whether there have been any threats that can be understood as a violent act, and on the other hand in Topla Dol and other places where we have serious, violent scenes with blood, for the time being, happiness, not death. I don't know what's waiting. I asked here when the last visit, or visiting the government, was just two of the mentioned ministers and ministries regarding the problem, the mini-electric power plants, and they announced some new law, or amendments and additions to the law, bans in protected areas. A few days ago, that confirmation was also given to representatives of these local communities and environmental organisations who were also supported by the president of the state. The law has been announced, but until it arrives, I appeal and urge them to hurry to enter the assembly procedure as soon as possible, I urge that the moratorium be introduced, until the law enters into force, to build a mini power plant. Who needs to be compensated, if he has the right to compensation, you'll be compensated. Whom should be punished, punish, but let us not for the citizens of this country and for the reputation of this country and for the image sent to the world to repeat such scenes. I'm just getting circumstances, and fortunately, he's been avoided, not bloody decay, because there's already been a bloody decay, a death case. So I appeal and demand it from the Ministry of Ecology and Energy, or the Prime Minister of Serbia, to come to the Assembly as soon as possible with proposals for a new law on amendments and additions to the law, while introducing a moratorium on the construction of mini power plants. The second issue concerns what I have talked about several times before from this post, the election in KIM, or parliamentary elections for institutions in Pristina in which, in my court, the Serbian List and several other lists of Serbs with KIM participated unfounded and harmfully. That's their right, but what was my problem, my appeal here and criticism is that the government and government of this country, the highest officials called for votes in these elections and to vote for a particular list. In this regard, a question for the Prime Minister, or the KIM Office, and here is the just-to-be president of the KIM Committee. I expect a session of the KIM Assembly Committee, which is the most inactive committee, which is the rarest meeting, and then mostly behind closed doors, detailed expertise, analysis, what has been obtained by the Serbs in the Kosovo elections and by this result, which I see has been notoriously celebrated in northern Kosovo Mitrovica. I don't see what there's too much to celebrate? If you had to come out, if the assessment was to come out, it should be dignified both in victory and in defeat, and especially in such victories, with bitter taste, as it remains after these elections in Kosovo, which could not be voted on by Serbian documents, organised by illegal institutions and which the state does not recognise, and yet the representatives of the state celebrate the result of a list in those elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61922	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61923	The esteemed chairman, respected MPs, was launched yesterday by the International Children's Week, which draws attention to the achievement of children's rights and the social status of children. Although greater social well-being and economic development mean both better social status of children and greater care for their health and education, today we want to draw attention to serious social phenomena that threaten the growing number of children, primary school and secondary school age, which threaten healthy adulthood and healthy life of children and young people. In fact, there is an increasing incidence of young people's risky behavior, such as alcoholism, drug abuse, peer violence, full of communicable diseases, underage pregnancy, as reported daily by the media. I would especially draw attention to the drug abuse, which is increasingly present among young people and takes a big toll. The latest case occurred in Nis, where a 14-year-old boy overdosed on unknown drugs and died. This is a red alarm for society. The state authorities are still taking on certain activities. A school drug commission has been formed, which was tasked with adopting a new action plan this month, which should establish new measures against this monster of our century. Research by this committee is warning, alarming, because there has been data that every other adolescent has never received information, either at home or at school, about the harmful consequences of drug use; that even 75% of adolescents have never had a chance to talk to experts about their emotional state. Young people are curious and they all want to try, and the drugs are getting cheaper and cheaper. It is a challenge for young people who are older and who do not think about the consequences, and youth and children serve unwanted, risky, and unhealthy lifestyles through the media. There are also now optional forms of education that are practiced in schools, such as the stands and professional lectures, which are usually organised several times during the school year. Obviously, that's not enough to prevent this severe addiction disease, which is being resorted to by an increasing number of children and adolescents. There is a growing age of children who have tried drugs for the first time, and among high school students, there is a growing number of those who have not tried some of the drugs. Children and young people are our future. Society must take serious steps and practical prevention measures. That is why continuous education and children and teachers and parents is necessary, since in the long run it is the only way to change the behavior and habits of young people. In this regard, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Education - is it planned to introduce a special subject that would represent continuous education in relation to the adverse consequences of addiction disease, increasing age-old violence, an increasing number of minor pregnancies and full of transmitted diseases? We believe that the final moment is to take serious social measures, because only continuous, educational and educational work with young people, especially children of school age, can we deal with this monster that will reflect both on the overall health of the population and on the working ability of young generations over a certain period of time, which should be able to manage important state and business affairs in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61924	Thank you, Mrs. Bukvich. Anyone else want to ask for a notice? Mr. Boban Birmancevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61925	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I refer my first question to the state authorities, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, and it concerns a very important question - did any of those who threatened the president of the state, or threatened President Alexander Vukic, threaten the man whom citizens call the Aca Serb, have any of them been prosecuted, or, more specifically, who has been prosecuted and who has been brought to justice? Because it is precisely a threat to Alexander Vukic to the citizens of Serbia, given that this man has the support of 60% of citizens and that, accordingly, he leads this Serbia on the right path, that is, Serbia on the path of unity and the path of results. My second question is, is there anyone in that alliance of threats and rapes, who are trying to represent as the Alliance for Serbia, brought to justice because exactly what they have said and directed to the president of the state and members of his family deserves sanctions? My next question is also addressed to the Ministry of the Interior and the Prosecutor's Office, and it directly refers to the actors in this picture - whether one of these actors is an attack on the traffic signs of immobiliary in Belgrade, whether one of them is brought to justice, because it is clear in this picture who is the bearer and who is the idea leader of the whole story, the biggest financier and tycoon and one who leads these unfortunate and sad and unfortunate gatherings, Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Zelenovic, in an attempt to make order in Belgrade, and forgets the situation in Sapac and everyone else. Is one of them, and it is clear in this picture who is present, arrested for assaulting traffic signs, immobiliary, in Belgrade, because just as I'm not sure that they've done something, they continued action yesterday with the attack on traffic signs, the immobiliary, in Serbia? Here is Mayor Zelenovic, who in his working time is putting on some parole and not in his town, but on traffic signs in the town of Loznica. Will someone prevent and finally process these people who don't know what they're doing in an attempt to show that they have an idea, that they have something, but they have other than the idea that they don't hate the Wolf, they don't have a program, they don't have a party, they don't have voter support. My next question is very important, and it refers to the visit of Mayor Sapac, the current mayor of Sapac, and it is said – did someone process and ask the question – why is Nebojsa Zelenović, Mayor of Sapca, and Nemanja Pajic falsely represented? What are they doing in Peca, what are they doing at the table acknowledging an unrecognized state of Kosovo, sitting under the flag of an unrecognized and non-existent state of Kosovo? Will someone stand in the way and do the false representation of the mayor of Nebojsa Zelenovic and Parliament Speaker Nemanja Pajic deserve a judicial epilogue? My next question is whether this masked man with a hat on his head, and this was just in the Lucan elections, where Bosca Obradic fell in and it literally fell into the police station in Luciani, will someone finally for this work, where this masked leader, "leader" together for Serbia, will be seen, too, because in order to be a leader, this option must have membership and must have a programme, and they do not, on behalf of the state, will anyone, on behalf of Serbian citizens, stand in the way of this alliance that is helplessly trying to impose the will of the citizens? But the will of the citizens is visible and will be seen exclusively in the elections. The call to a boycott that they're trying to activate is exactly an invitation to a boycott for their members. Given that they do not have memberships, the election will be held at a time when they are and all those who think well of Serbia and who think well of their citizens will come to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61926	Thank you, Mr. Birmancevic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 4th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE State Aid Control Law. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today he has been invited to attend the session of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Welcome, Minister. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marijan Risticevic, Dubravko Bojić, Miljan Damjanović, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Sreto Perić, Ružica Nikolic, Filip Stojanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Despotović, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Petar Jojić, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojević, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Vladimir Orlic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61927	This Article 2 provides that the provisions of this law relate to aid for agriculture and fisheries, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We, Serbian radicals, have proposed to delete this by showing our relationship to this SAA, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You say you cannot accept the amendment, because the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to sign an international Stabilisation and Association Agreement as early as 2008. This is the general problem of this government, actually, it's the problem of the state. You want to hide behind something, or continue the continuity of the previous, so-called. The democratic governments, the governments of DS and Boris Tadic, then you say – what will you do, someone has accepted it before us, and then we have to continue. You don't have to, gentlemen, there are harmful contracts. A lot of harmful contracts were made during that previous period, but you accepted them and extended them. It didn't occur to you to ask for any of these contracts or agreements to be broken. The only thing you have is whether you want it, and you don't want it. Serbia suffers great damage because of this very Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because under the agreement, duty-free imports of everything are allowed, so today we buy cheaper goods because they do not pay customs, we buy cheaper goods, primarily agricultural products, than those produced in our Serbia. This is how our peasants are threatened, because everyone knows that you have more than half the fruit and vegetables in the markets and in markets that are cheaper from imports than those produced by our farmer. Of course, our goods are better quality, but the problem is that people in Serbia are poor, so they're looking to buy something cheaper, even if it's less quality. We, because of the application of this agreement, except that the peasants who have seriously threatened all our agricultural products are suffering, the state itself would have had no annual income of more than half a billion euros. So it's not little, it's a huge amount of money. Indeed, it remains unclear for us – what makes you and what is your motive not to break up these agreements, because no one, absolutely no one in the state of Serbia, no peasants, no state, therefore, no people, no state. We are thus expressing our position and wherever this Agreement appears to you, we will propose to delete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61928	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the word is Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61929	Thank you very much. Dear Members, this is not such a simple subject. So the SAA is an agreement that is necessary to further develop your trade and your economy, ultimately and standard of life for Serbian citizens. About 70%, if not more, of our foreign-toxin exchange is with the EU. Without this agreement, you can't have it, and without exporting, you don't even have new factories, you don't have new jobs. So, on the other hand, I don't think that's a topic today either. What, on the other hand, is the subject, is the Article 2 that you are referring to and who you were talking about. This is a member so defined to protect us. Therefore, it is precisely important that state aid control is not related to incentives in agriculture and fisheries, which in other words means that the state can help as much as it needs agriculture and fisheries and does not go under the agreement, standards and methodologies that are related to State aid control. So, I think if this member, as you said, were wiped out, then we would only harm the development of our agriculture and our fisheries. That is why we do not accept the amendment, but we say – we will control state aid in all other spheres, but for agriculture and fishing. It's precisely because of the importance of these branches for us that we want to have the opportunity to help as much as we can and whenever we can help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61930	Thank you, Minister. Now the word has Alexander Markovic. Here you go. (The Faith of Radeta: Why can't I do the Rules of Procedure? ) You can, but Goran Kovacevic and Markovic have previously appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61931	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also stated in principle that we will support the draft laws we are still discussing today and that we welcome all those measures that the Serbian Government is carrying out in the field of economic reform. We particularly welcome all the results we have achieved so far when it comes to the state of public finances, which are reflected in the financial order and discipline, as well as in the savings we have achieved. Thanks to these savings, today we can raise salaries in the public sector, pensions from next year, we can help pensioners, invest in capital investments, infrastructure and everything else we've talked about in the last days and here in the National Assembly. That is the fundamental difference between us and those who destroyed and economically destroyed Serbia while they were in power. So, on the one hand, we have a responsible economic policy conducted by the Serbian government led by the SNS, led by Aleksandar Vukic, and we have on the other hand, as I say, a sticker policy based on traffic signs throughout Serbia. This is what it looks like when this sad team of this Alliance for Serbia starts implementing its policy in practice. There he is, Dragan Gilas, a handsome man with a sticker. It is the highlight of the policy offered and represented by Dragan Gilas and the Alliance for Serbia. When it comes to fiscal consolidation, this is their answer. Here, traffic sign, they successfully and professionally sticked the sticker. He also put a sticker on himself. To the question of economic growth they give the answer, here, in front of Panchev, they glued a successful sticker, very professionally they do so, so no one contests their expertise in this regard. To the question -- in order to solve the situation on KIM, they offer an answer here, these are their answers to all questions in the state of Serbia. So, that's the political program of the SZS. So, we have one side of what publicly smokes marijuana, and don't be ashamed of it, in that same group is the one that rips up the Serbian flag and is proud of it, rips the man out of the Serbian flag, and we have this, this sad team that puts stickers around Serbia. So that's the fundamental difference between us and them, and I'm glad Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61932	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61933	You see, colleague Marinkovic, how you have now made a problem because you have violated Article 104. The fellow who spoke now never spoke of the amendment at all, and that's not a problem for us, he can talk whoever he wants and whatever he wants, it's not an observation. The remark is something else. It could have happened, since the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group could have happened to speak about this very amendment and explain why the amendment should not be accepted, etc. Now I'm asking you if it happened, would you give me two lines, one on what Minister Sinisha Mali said, because I called him to replicate, and then after the replica of what my colleague Markovic said? You wouldn't let me do that, and you would have to. Don't interrupt the course of the session, it just can't be done by the Rules of Procedure. If anyone wants a replica, the replica refers, before that replica, to a direct minister, an MP, or anyone who speaks. I just wanted to warn you that today is our day in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not going to ask the Assembly to declare itself, so I'm asking you now to remind me of what Sinisha Mali said, so I can replicate it to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61934	Thank you. So sign in again. Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61935	Yeah, I remember. Mr. Minister, you say the SAA is not a simple topic. It's not. It wasn't in 2008, it wasn't in the meantime, it's not now. You mention how much we, based on this agreement, are trading with the EU. I guess with countries that are members of the EU, there is no EU export or import. So we have nothing against trade with any country and which is a member of the EU and which is not. Why don't you deal with a little bit more, say, the duty-free agreement we've had with Russia for how many years? Why don't we force the deal, and then trade trade will be even bigger with the Russian Federation. But, Minister, it's not what you said, it's not an argument, at least not in relation to the arguments we Serbian radicals have when it comes to the SAA. There's no concrete use. You say, this member of whom we propose to delete, you want to help agriculture and fisheries, and these are the most endangered activities of this SAA, especially agriculture is the most threatened by the conclusion of this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I repeat again, how much income is half a billion euros that loses the state, and more than that is fundamental, is that we are jeopardizing our agricultural production with the SAA, and we are thus jeopardizing our peasants. The birds on the branch know, it is convinced as jokes, whose apples we buy at the market and why some are, I don't know, imported from Poland compared to those we have, produced in Serbia. Of course, we understand that trade trade must go between countries, and that things happen that, of course, we have goods from imports, but that goods must not be at the price of competition. Our goods can be paid if the importer and the manufacturer are paid for it, but they have to be paid customs duties, the goods have to be imported normally, so let the price be formed here and let them buy what anyone likes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61936	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61937	Thank you very much. When I spoke, honourable Members, of the EU, I mean the EU's internal market. That's what they say in the end, that's a formal term. So there are no customs duties among these countries, when goods enter the EU once it is considered to have joined the EU. Secondly, we are talking today about the draft law on state aid control, and on the subject of the SAA, you also know that we have done a lot over the past few years to sign as many free trade agreements as possible, not only the SAA, but also free trade agreements with the Russian Federation and with Belarus and Kazakhstan, with Turkey as well. We have several very good contracts with the People's Republic of China. I don't think any country has such an opportunity to export certain agricultural products to the People's Republic of China. I think those are the things that just pushed our economy forward. You know, we're a relatively small country, seven million inhabitants, so it's not a big internal market. The investors that are coming, the factories that are opening up here, the companies that are opening up are export-oriented and these very free trade agreements with a large number of countries have allowed us to achieve these results that we have achieved over the past few years regardless of stable monetary policy. And here I'm thinking too much of what we've reduced the number of unemployed, which we've achieved a high growth rate, which we end up growing and exporting from year to year. These are the things that these agreements have made possible and this is an advantage when, at least at the moment, when you join the EU, and on the other hand, you are not yet a full member of the EU. You have the opportunity to take advantage of all those benefits and benefits that free trade agreements give you with various countries. So I think it's a big advantage of our country. I don't know if there's another country in the world that has so many free trade agreements that gives us the opportunity to export and promote ourselves as, let's say, a country from which I can get goods without loads, customs and various other tariffs to go to other countries. Finally, when you add up the number of inhabitants in those countries, it starts with the EU, the Russian Federation, Belarus, etc., so over a billion people live in those countries where we can export without tariffs, without customs barriers. I think that's the thing about both the global market and the global development of the economy. In the end, you can't isolate yourself, shut yourself down, be like a country with a Chinese wall around it, but there are obvious benefits, benefits from such a policy and the way we lead the development of the market and the potential of exports in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61938	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61939	You see, Minister, first of all, we're a small country, somehow it's not nice to listen to it anymore. We are as big a country as we are and we need to work, to develop our country in the best interests of all people living in the state of Serbia. But what did you do to this article 2? You are only privileged here by those who trade with EU countries when it comes to agriculture and fishing. Why didn't you provide here for incentives and these privileges for peasants who trade for businesses, who trade with the Russian Federation on the basis of a duty-free agreement? Why didn't you predict, it has been announced that on 25 October this agreement with the Eurasian Union will be signed with Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus and other countries from that part of the world, why are you not, and that agreement, if you are allowed by those from Europe, because they already threaten you not to sign it, if you sign it, it covers a market of 180 million people. Now we ask you, why is the SAA privileged, and why didn't you write that, if it's definitely signed on October 25th, it's just when this law comes into force, why didn't you predict incentives? Because our people, the peasants, are looking forward to this agreement with the Eurasian Union, because they will be able to export to the EU what no one is looking for. These are our traditional products and cheese, and cream, and jams, and ajvar, and homemade brandy and all that is characteristic, traditionally for Serbia, it will be able to export to this Euro-Asian Union market, but you didn't see it here in this article and therefore you need to delete Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61940	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61941	Let's just explain one more time. In the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, you have an annex containing a list of all agricultural products to which this Agreement applies. We're talking about the State Aid Control Act. So in other agreements, we have no restrictions or annexes related to agricultural products, we have only in this. We just don't want to be attached to these restrictions that are defined here and that we have the opportunity to encourage development and agriculture and fisheries through state aid. I don't know how else to explain why this Article 2 contains exactly this definition and connection to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, or maybe we don't understand. So, once again, only this agreement in its annex has a list of agricultural products to which it relates. We want that particular list out of state aid control. The other agreements don't have that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61942	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61943	And we ministers are talking about state aid control. You didn't answer the question I just asked you. Why is state aid provided through this law only for those operating under the SAA? Why not those who operate under the Treaty on the Russian Federation, with Russia, which we already have and why did you not provide for this assistance and for those who will operate, who are eager to conclude the contract on 25 October with the Euro-Asian Union? That's our question. Why, if you won't, as far as we're concerned from the SRS, once again, we'd ask for the end of that SAA, we'd come out of that Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but if you won't, then don't make a farce out of this contract with the Euro-Asian Union, of this already existing, I repeat, a non-carinal trade agreement with the Russian Federation. Why don't you ever talk about it? Why have you never laid down by law certain privileges and aid to farmers operating under this agreement, or will they, I repeat, operate on the basis of this Euro-Asian Union? Why do I say you're making a farce? The EU does not give you or seriously resent the conclusion of this announced contract with the Euro-Asian Union, and we also know that everyone in the EU is telling you – if Serbia ever enters the EU, and we know that it will never be, that it will have to break the free trade agreement with Russia with Russia. So that's what you're already told. It's been said publicly several times. You are now formally, as if to do, to be, you are both good with Russia and that Euro-Asian part of the world, but what the EU tells you is a priority. It's unbearable and unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61944	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61945	I guess we don't understand each other, but let's do that. I'll do it again, I don't know how to say it. Therefore, the State Aid Control Act does not apply to agriculture at all. It has nothing to do with the agreement of one, the other or the third, it does not apply to agriculture, only to industry. Then I don't know how to answer the question, and why you didn't plan state aid in the area of agriculture and other agreements except for an SAA agreement. So, once again, it does not apply to agriculture at all, we are excluding agriculture and fisheries from the State Aid Act regardless of the agreement and I will conclude my discussion on Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61946	Thank you, Minister Mali. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61947	Here, and I'll end up with this, so none of this is true of what you said. The provisions of this law do not apply to aid and so on, so it stands in this law. Why did you single out that farm, why there's no state aid control at all, that's the first thing. The other thing is, what you're trying to say now is that it's not about agriculture, that I don't know what, but only industry, Minister, is it the creation of ajvar industry? Is making jam industry, production? Is that production? What's with the nod if it's not? What do you mean, it's not? Is ajvar picking on a branch? Does ajvar read like a pepper? Well, paprika turns into ajvar in the food industry. The plums and the pots in the jam. The plums and apples in the brandy and so on. Is that what I'm talking about? That's what I was talking about, and I wasn't talking about the products, the plantations where the fruits are harvested directly from the ground. I spoke very carefully about this article and what I think it should contain.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61948	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the word after the amendment has Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your Honored Minister, I think that the well-respected promoter is actually the best evidence why and the arguments she proposes, in fact, is the best evidence why this Article 2 should be accepted, or its amendment not to accept. We accept everything she actually said in this article 2. We exempt the aid to agriculture and fishing, any control of state aid. So we leave the state to decide on the size of the subsidies and incentives it will give to agriculture. Ajvar processing is agriculture and is on subsidies from the government of the Republic of Serbia that will also not be controlled. The government of the Republic of Serbia is currently investing 5% of the budget, never again helping to subsidise agriculture, and we do not want to put this under control in any way. Are agricultural producers engaged in exports to the EU, Russia or China? It is not at all the subject of the interest of this law, but no matter how much we help the state of Serbia, we need to understand that Serbia is a relatively small country that has a slightly limited agricultural production that is obsolete. We have to help our farmers in the next period of time, but the free market is the essence of functioning and in the free market that we seek there is no over-subsidisation and poor agriculture. The impact, i.e. an increase in productivity in agriculture, is what we want, on the subsidies of the Serbian state, to increase productivity and thus enable farmers to become competitive both on the European market and on the world market, and thus farmers to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61950	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. There's a word for Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61951	Just to relate to what Mr Kovacevic said, therefore, you are absolutely right here, we do not have restrictions in this way, nor are we setting ourselves limits for any state aid in the area of agriculture and fisheries. This was ultimately our goal, and if you look at the explanation in our letter regarding this amendment, therefore, the Republic of Serbia is not obliged to control the granting of state aid in agriculture and fisheries until the accession of the EU, which includes fisheries and aqua culture. So we want to support these industrial agricultural, economic branches without restrictions, however you want them to develop even faster to some point in the future when they happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61952	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word now has Professor Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61953	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is normal for the party to come to power no matter what the party is concerned, it has the obligation to honour all previously agreed contracts and to act in accordance with those agreements. It is also normal for every government to try to find ways to do what is in the best interests of the country at a given time, in the best way to work and do what is in the best interests of the country. That's the way it is in this case. We are caught up with some of the contracts and obligations that were previously accepted and we have to act on these obligations, but at the same time we have to make sure that our citizens can have as much a better life as possible. Serbia, in my opinion, has come out of a period of development called survival and we are now in a period called growth. To enable growth, we must be very wise and take care of all the elements of both business and life at all. Last year, as I recall, somewhere in April, we adopted the Law on a Plane Planning System in Serbia, and by the end of the year, the government should adopt roof plans in all areas, in all ministries. After that, it would be an obligation for local self-government to develop their operational and long-term strategic plans, and through these plans, there is an opportunity for us to correct a lot of things, to bring a lot into an optimal system. It is normal that neither the EU nor these Western countries will take much care of Serbia and Serbian citizens. They will try every possible way to create all their privileges, and as we will, they do not care. But that's why we have to make sure that we get out, as soon as we're ready to get out of that game with them and give us everything that might have been disrupted by some agreements. I hope that through these plans brought by the government at Serbia's level and later through local plans, all of this will be overcome and that we will make conditions for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61954	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister, let's not let these representatives of your ruling coalition understand this, but I find it really fascinating that you and your associates don't understand what it says here. So, what you wanted, what you didn't want, it doesn't matter, but what the law says is quite clear. So, this story of yours that you want to help agriculture and fisheries, above all, have nothing to do with state control and help. What does that mean? So you can only help when no one controls you. And what one of the predecessors said, as he says, we don't want a market where there will be large subsidies, that means a bad market. Well, the largest subsidies are in this particular area in the EU and therefore their agricultural producers remain, even smaller and larger. What it says in Article 2 of the Law, which you obviously do not know to interpret is that the provisions of this law do not apply to aid in agriculture and fisheries related to the SAA between the European Community and the Member States, on the one hand, and to the Republic of Serbia on the other hand. That's quite clear. So, on this aid from the EU, it cannot be controlled by the state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, or by this commission. Of course, this does not mean that other types of subsidies given by the Republic of Serbia cannot be controlled from their pockets. That would be completely insane. So, it's not the law's goal to release the control of the subsidies given by the Republic of Serbia in agriculture, so that would be a complete failure, who would normally advocate it, but you can't control this commission with what comes from EU funds. This is what is essential, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's quite simple, but you don't know. You know the last time I told you it looked like that situation, when it was said, we got a verdict. That's what you say. We got the law. You get the law, you propose it to parliament, you represent it here, and you're not exactly sure what it means yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61956	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word is Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61957	Thank you very much. I didn't understand why you mentioned EU funds. So EU funds have nothing to do with state aid. State aid is aid provided by the Republic of Serbia to entities operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'll do it again, so let's go through it one more time whether we understand each other or not. So this is the State Aid Control Act, which allows us to help and encourage the development of agriculture without restrictions, and the very incentives, the way in which they are controlled, what kind of, etc., of course regulates the Law on Agriculture, therefore, the law on what the incentives apply to. The State Aid Control Act, Article 2, once again removes any restrictions and restrictions on state aid in the area of agriculture and fisheries. The Agriculture Act defines how much we will invest in agriculture, how we will control it, etc., but at least this law does not prohibit us, nor prevents us, which is a good thing and what is exactly our desire to encourage the development of these economic branches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61958	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now the right to the replica has an authorised representative of the SNS, Mr Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61959	I thank you. We from the SNS may not understand all the laws, we don't have to understand them, but it is important that we know what we are doing and that Serbian citizens believe the SNS. The economic results and the state of agriculture certainly say that. The better we know, the better we read the law. I really don't understand when someone takes to read the law, they finish fifth grade, and they can't even read it. For in the law, and he can look at the stenogram of what he has said, he is not standing anywhere, which applies. So this law doesn't stand anywhere - which applies, but is in accordance with the agreement. So when you have your perception that you can say – which applies, then the interpretation of the law is totally wrong. The law is in line with the agreement and that is the difference, it is in line and gives Serbia a chance to invest financial resources in agriculture and financial resources in fisheries without any control. I hope that in the next period of time, when we discuss other amendments, at least to start reading the amendments as they write.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61960	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61961	I'm really embarrassed, and I don't know how long you SNS are gonna be attacking your coalition partners. Here, this morning these speakers first attack the SPS, now the authorised representative of the attack of Minister Antic, as if that was the problem that he said yesterday, finished the fifth Belgrade high school. If you had something to say to Minister Antic, you should have done it yesterday, it would have been human and knightish to say it in his eyes. So don't do it, it's not nice. You and your coalition partners should cooperate better. If you talk about political instability, that political instability can only apply to your constant disputes, to bickering, to bickering, to misrepresentation. So what if Minister Antic Petu graduated from Belgrade High School? Is that a shameful thing? If it's embarrassing, why didn't you tell him yesterday? There are those who haven't finished that much. At least he did. So, let your coalition partners go, don't insult them anymore, you chose them, you took them, even in your previous term when you had an absolute majority, when you didn't have to take them to the government, you took them. If you didn't have enough personnel, if you didn't have enough courage, it doesn't matter at this point, but don't. You know, when you attack the ones you've been sitting with in government for seven years, you talk about yourself first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61962	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The right to replica has Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61963	Coalition relations between the SNS and its coalition partners are quite clear and this shows results. If you have a growing and progressing Serbia, then it is certainly the result primarily of Alexander Vukic and SNS, as well as of our coalition partners. We have no dilemma, and we hope to continue to lead Serbia in the next period of time in the same team. As for the amendment, to return to the amendment, the essence of the question is, where did you find, Mr. MP, to write in this article – which is? I guess you know so much that you can read these two lines and tell me – here it is. Then what you were saying would make sense. It's completely pointless, and it's about the fact that you can't read three members, no matter what school you've finished. Otherwise, it's all in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61964	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. We've gone a long way from the subject. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61965	Since clearly no member of 107 is applied today, or as of today in the National Assembly, I really must express my position on what he said earlier, since he did not refer to any MP by name, it is all he or she. So, the man is a folk MP, he doesn't know how to speak, he doesn't know how to speak, he obviously doesn't have a very good Serbian language, and then he resents someone who can't read something, someone doesn't understand something, so he can't even read what's written to him. So I really haven't heard such an ignorant person as this man who spoke before. And you do not respond; you allow him to offend the Messenger of the people. And the people who are yelling were supposed to be yelling earlier when he asked the MP why he couldn't read something or so. So if you thought we'd keep quiet about it and let such ignorants like that go, we wouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61966	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I appeal to all MPs to treat each other with respect. There's nothing else I can do about it. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61967	You had to, Mr. Minister, be much better prepared for this session, so when you enter the duels with the MPs and when you claim something and brag about the results that at least you have some concrete information. You are replicating, on two occasions, co-worker Radeti, who has insisted that the disastrous effect of the food industry, in general in Serbia and GDP, which is more than once, is probably not listening, because you listen to us if anyone listens. Here, you didn't listen, Minister Nedimovic pointed out and now you say – you've mixed something up, it's just that there are no restrictions on fishing and agriculture. And, now, here's some quiz question, here are the MPs sitting, noding their heads, saying they agree with you, did you or anyone else speak here, and you're 50 today, visiting a pond in Serbia? Fishermen in Serbia are a disaster, Mr. Minister. So, you remembered in the pre-election year, in 2019, that you were bringing a new rules for fishing subsidies, and the most famous fishermen in Serbia are either over 30 years old or are in the lease of private persons and private companies. I will list to you some whom I regularly visit, you love, the congregation of Châtin; the guests, the congregation of Châtin; the Sissec, the congregation of Paracino; Bajna Garden, will you go on? Ask the Eckish people how much they get subsidies? Please don't tell us anything just because you wrote it, translated these and gave you a directive from the EU. Now, come on, specifically, but without being whispered to you by that associate of yours, there's something he's mixed up. You need to know where every dinar from the budget goes, tell us nicely how much you've given for the ponds this year and exactly by the ponds and exactly by the kind of fish, everything nice to tell us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61968	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61969	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will read for the sake of the public, here it writes in a tax code: “The provisions of this law do not apply to aid to agriculture, fishing in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. “ Point. They don't apply. So it's nothing discriminatory. Anyone who understands will understand. We are indeed an EU accession country. Our political option is towards the EU and we must respect all the contracts we have signed with them. This is a tax matter. It's not a matter of help. Read Article 1. You will understand what this applies to. As far as Russia, my favorite country, and with it, we have made an agreement, and not only with it, but with all the countries. We'll benefit ourselves and them. We've made the Euro-Asian Union, co-operation impeccable. We work with China, we work with Turkey. At this point, 100 businessmen came to help the Republic of Serbia. That's how it works. Article 2 needs to stay, it can't be deleted just because it's someone's will, because it doesn't understand. So this member is not discriminatory and dotting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61970	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. Mr. Sarovic, do you want a replica? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61971	Here, I'll just take a minute. If it wasn't clear to anyone by now, I think we've all realized now that this member is not discriminating, as the lady says. Please don't let these others come forward in the future, she explains best in the entire parliamentary group. So when something in the event of a future dispute, if you want to cover up, as chairman, give her the word and solve the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61972	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. It won't be hard for me, of course. Mrs. Malusic is a great fighter and our colleague and we respect her work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61973	It was always better to suffer for the village than in the country. Mr. Chairman, I'm like someone who lives by force and someone who deals with agriculture, I'd say a few words. As far as the fish are concerned, they're all different. So, as far as fishing incentives are concerned, no one's singled out the funds before us. We're the ones who separate the fish and the breeding queens. It only stands out in the last few years, four or five years, until that time was gone. There were no subsidies, 200,000 cows went missing because of it. The livestock industry isn't making much progress, but it's not even going down. Thanks to incentives and subsidies, and fishing is also part of livestock, we have preserved the existing production despite the reduction of the number of landowners because the rural household is, or because farmers are very old. The average age in the country is sixty-one years. Despite the decrease in the number of land-uses, agricultural production does not fall. Agriculture, no matter what its faults, is the only export branch with surpluses as far as I know. So we export 2.7 to 3 billion euros a year. The surplus is when we take bananas and South fruit, coffee and everything we import, importing even dried meat and other products, our exports are again larger than our imports by 1.2 billion. If all other branches were in the economy as agriculture, we would have a far better relationship between imports and exports. I must say that the coverage of imports by export is growing despite large investments that mean the purchase of equipment and so on. Agriculture is our chance. These potentials should be exploited, but above all, existing production needs to be maintained, agricultural modernisation, agriculture rejuvenate, and in some ways the EU, not only because of the EU, but because of the common agricultural policy that these subsidies are five times as big as the EU is today. I believe in our farmers, I believe that when they get the same conditions when they are within the common European agricultural policy, when they have the same conditions for production that they will be able and will work better than European farmers because they are more resourceful, more valuable and in every sense, if they have the same conditions, their holdings will advance faster and they will catch up with farmers in the EU I believe that, most farmers believe, and I think that what is most important than joining the EU is this common European agricultural policy, because 45% of the EU budget is allocated to agriculture, i.e. direct payments and rural development. When we are part of it, if we are, I think that the processing industry will benefit too, because it will be more competitive, it will have, by the fact that subsidies are bigger, cheaper raw materials, they will be safe in the abundance of these raw materials and will be able to make a more competitive and better food product than they are currently produced in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61974	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word now according to the amendment is Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go, Mrs. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61975	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, therefore, the state aid in the agricultural sector is not subject to the Commission's consideration because we have a special agricultural policy with the European Community. Also, agricultural products are not covered by the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement relating to State aid. In recent days, we have had the opportunity to discuss both budget rebalancing and to discuss the possibilities of, say, the 46 billion dinar surplus being deployed with priorities. I believe that the Serbian government knows what priorities are in line with the projects already launched or in line with the specific needs of citizens. For example, we have an increase in the salaries of public sector employees, ranging from 8 to 15%, and an average of 9.6%. But if we're talking about some other parameters that make up one whole, when we're talking today about this bill, if we know that public debt is constantly falling, a few years ago it was more than 70% of GDP, now it's about 50%. We know that we have a growth rate of more than 4.5%, the unemployment rate is reduced by 10.3%. We have a low inflation that's not more than 2.2%, and all of these are parameters that we need to consider when and today we're talking about this bill's proposal. These parameters are important when we talk about agriculture. Agriculture, of course, also takes a significant place in Serbia's budget. But as far as agricultural policy is concerned with the EU, there is also Chapter 11, which aims to provide, supply the markets for agricultural products, which, of course, implies a steady income for producers. As the minister said, if the SAA is an agreement that is necessary to develop our economy and to develop our economy, in the extreme line and standard of living of our citizens, and on the other hand, the state will help in these areas, if we are talking specifically about agriculture and fisheries both outside the SAA and without restrictions, then why should we delete a member who has the possibility of jeopardising the overall trade with the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61976	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61977	This is a member who defines what state aid is. And we asked that the amendment delete this provision that it is only trade with EU countries, we have already put it with all the countries, because above all we point out that it is most important for Serbia and its agriculture and for future industrial development to export and co-operate much more with the Russian Federation. We have a free trade agreement, and here we're expecting this agreement with the Eurasian Union, so let's see if you can decide on such a step, which will mean a lot, which will be an incentive for the future of this country. What is also the definition of this Article 3 is to provide a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for certain projects. And, now, to explain to us, Mr. Sinisa Mali, if Elektroprivreda of Serbia is a pearl of the Serbian economy, you pointed out, I can't really say it now, but Vucic certainly is Prime Minister Brnabic and Resore Minister, why is it necessary for the state of Serbia, and not only that you inherited from these yellow ones, each year almost gives, it is usually so November, December, guarantees to the Elektroprivred, i.e. the ESM and EPS of an average of 300 to 350 million euros for the loan it takes from the German Development Bank? Wait, if a company that doesn't have such a verifiable business at all, because there's nothing going on and there's never a Assembly, maybe a board, but I don't believe, see how this public enterprise operates, then what makes us, for example, a guarantee in that amount almost every year? What does that mean for an ordinary Serbian citizen? When you take the bill for electricity, here, today which is the date, these days the accounts for the previous month will come, you will see maintenance and engaged power. It's in that account, I think, now over 200 dinars. Then what are we paying for? We pay for what they boast, what they are incompetent and what we have in certain parts of Serbia's 1968 trafoe. It's just amazing. How can they take so many guarantees and so many loans without the power system being able to be maintained and developed wherever necessary, especially in individual tourist centres where complete collapse occurs? And it just happens. On the other hand, that's what we said when it was budget rebalance, we expect you to present, since this commission really serves nothing, it's some hybrid para-state body, you, as the minister who decides on it, both the ministry and the government to whom help is given, how do you set priorities when granting subsidies?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61978	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously there's a problem here with fellow MPs where the money comes from. Here is the largest guarantee given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to EPS on January 21st 2016, and the funds are intended to build an energy bloc, i.e. to expand the capacity of strength, I think 350 megawatts in Kostolc. This is the largest guarantee given by the National Assembly and is currently the first such investment after 30 and a few years. Now, if KFW bank is mentioned, I don't mind, but we don't want to be honest and say that the money we're building that thermal power plant and we're expanding the surface digging capacity from China. So we're against it if the money comes from Western Europe and we're going to attack it, we don't mind when it comes from China. And the government's position and policy is that we should work together with each other. We can also talk about fishing subsidies, I just doubt that we with serious fishing subsidies can do anything seriously when it comes to the Russian market. We're importing fish from them. Where can we export? Probably in EU countries. To clarify something about this famous SAA and that the EU is giving more subsidies to agriculture than it allows us, that is not true, because it is, in principle, reciprocity. So, for certain actions, as they allow, so much allows, so much for us. Now, if they have more money, it's already a different story, they're richer as society, mostly Eurozones. But, then, on the principle of reciprocity, which applies to them, is true for both of us, and vice versa. But those who haven't even read the SAA know, like they haven't read the law, and even when they read it, they don't read it right, so they get caught up in certain mistakes if someone makes a particular lapus. When they read the wrong thing, and based on that wrong thing, they base their whole discussion, then it's not their problem, it can be whoever it is. He can't. He can't. So, I don't mind the opposition criticizing the laws, but let him criticise the arguments. Let him criticise the arguments. Our arguments against theirs. If they don't use true data, we're going to tell the truth, so let's see how it's going to measure in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61980	Thank you. Mrs. Jovanovic, he didn't mention you at all. (Natasa Jovanovic: Yes, all my discussion...) All right, I'll give you a line, but he was a man of great skill and he didn't mention you by your name or by your political party. Before you are Minister Mali, then you are a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61981	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I will take care of every word, since it is very important that we understand what the amendment is and then I will give an answer to that request. Therefore, the request for an amendment is the following – that Article 3(1) should apply. The proposal for a law of the word "Member States of the European Union" is replaced by the words "any other country". That would mean, if we had accepted this amendment, that every kind of state aid then we had to evaluate also on the basis of what effect it has on trade and with countries, now that it's not less important, let's say Sri Lanka, Morocco, etc., and we just want to narrow down the impact assessment on the EU countries alone. In the light of this law, when I talked about it a few days ago, I told you that the State Aid Act is of greater benefit to smaller and weaker countries than to stronger and more developed. It is certain that some Germany, which is far superior to us in terms of economy, can with much more money help an industrial branch or some company than Serbia can. It is precisely state aid and state aid control that is structured so that even fewer countries, less developed, such as Serbia compared to Germany, have the opportunity to help properly those economic operators or those economic branches that we care about or that we consider to be the bearers of economic growth and development in the future. Here, when assessing these effects, we are just focusing on the effect on trade with the EU. If we were to extend it to other countries, then state aid itself would be inconclusive, because you would have to evaluate the effect on the rest of almost 200 and how many countries of the world exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61982	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61983	How can I rephrase to you now, colleague Arsic, when you are in the position of the chairman, but I must do it for the public. First, I'll tell Mr. Secretary. When an SRS MP writes an amendment to a member of the proposed law, it's not just a case with you, and you'll see in later times, it's just an initiation to start a topic about this whole thing. So, in this further series of amendments to our MPs' group, you will see that someone else draws a different sentence from the context of this Article 3. In order to talk about that, about the definition, right now, I could specifically write an amendment to delete this whole attitude or the whole member, because we also think that state aid should be defined differently and that there should not be these guarantees right now either. Let me tell you something, a month ago it was expensive, there were representatives of 50 local self-government in Serbia. They don't know when and to what extent they can expect state aid. The replica refers to the presentation of counterpart Arsic. Mr. Arsic, you can't hide the exact data, so no one's hiding it in the government, you've been told here more than once that Elektroprivreda is a loser. They have a lot of money spills, much more than anywhere in the world, energy transmission suffers certain losses, it's about 15% in us, and it's normal and tolerated everywhere in the world to be 5%, because of different aspects, now I don't have time to talk about it, but when you turn that loss into dinars or euro, it's about 200 million euros a year. Imagine what you can do with that money, how much to restore the school, the hospital, how much to help the poor and so on year after year. So, you have to, and now the term of office of this government stands out, to solve this burning issue, and you say that it is, normally, necessary, and imagine that there has been no such loss, not only while you are in power, but all the years ago, so that's one whole billion that could be invested, and that Serbia has no problems, as far as electricity supply is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61984	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. That's what I'm really interested in for 5%. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61985	Thank you, Vice President. Yesterday I tried to focus your attention and behavior on thanking Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, congratulating him on his 67th birthday, which came across a lot of trouble in this room. It's your right, and it's an indicator of how we treat him personally and the Russian Federation, which is extremely helpful to us and whose help we refuse. We do not allow their mission in Nis to be granted diplomatic mission status, we do not allow representatives of Russia and China, who favor us, to participate in solving the problems of Kosovo and Metohija directly, etc. Shortly thereafter, I went to Calemegday to mark the anniversary of Belgrade's defenders against the Austrian occupation. This is yesterday's photo in front of the monuments of Russian and Serbian defenders of Belgrade in Calemegdan. If I am not mistaken, this monument was opened by the then-president of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, solemnly. Two years ago, from this monument a sculpture of St George's killing an angel was stolen. In two years' time, this country was unable to find out who stole it, nor was it financially able to make a replica of that part of the monument and make this monument look right. I wonder if this is an American monument or an English, or German, French, etc., I believe a replica would be made within 24 hours, because there is a mold for making that replica. Will you allow the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Medvedev to come here within 10 days without being renovated this monument, I leave it on you. Furthermore, yesterday, the president of the Republic of Serbia said on several occasions that there was an increase in trade with Turkey in the context of talks with Turkey's president. That is true, but unfortunately it is also true that Serbia's exports to Turkey are decreasing, which means that the external trade deficit with Turkey is increasing, and one way to reduce the foreign trade deficit with Turkey is agriculture. What were we doing to our farm? That's what this data shows. This is the answer I received from Minister Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture, to my parliamentary question on 23 November 2017. In this response, Minister Nedimovic states that the incentives in agriculture and rural development amounted to years, quote, in 2013 4.37%, 2014 4.55%, 2016, 2.87% and 2017 2.96%. That means total below 5%. For these five years, this regime has been cut off by farmers 7.17%, and if we take it as an average of 2.87% annually and if we multiply it by a figure that was 2016, 23.826,620,000, it turns out that in this five-year period alone, farmers have been cut off 57,771,720.328 dinars and then, gentlemen, don't be surprised that one of the previous speakers said that our average age of farmers is 61 years, that the average age of tractors is 20 years, that we are 20% of registered agricultural holdings, which have small livestock, pigs, sheep and goats, and they had two cattle, excluded from the subsidy system. How do you think you're helping the farm and who? I will be free to attach a copy of the document I received from the Minister of Agriculture to become an integral part of the minutes and enter the minutes. Mr. Vice President, do you allow me to bring it?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61986	I allow my colleague Chevarlic and thank you for your discussion. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Wait for my colleague Shevarlic...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61987	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are speakers who mix things up, there are speakers who mix everything up. When Tito's youngest councilman, who talked about how the Serbian army, including Belgrade defenders, wanted to talk about, fought hegemonistic wars and enslaved all our other peoples and peoples, did so to Mr. Martinovic, and when Tito's youngest committee was modified, put on a folk costume and began to respect the tradition of the Serb army, then it was a modification, in fact, and then mixed everything. You mix up a few wars. Mr. Martinovic, I remember the Serb-Turkish wars in which Russian volunteers, Count Leevski, died there at Nis, helped Serbs. I remember these volunteers. I remember the communist, Red Army in 1945, but in 1914 and 1915, I can't seem to remember Belgrade's defenders organised Russian origin. I think they helped us on some other front, but that the previous speaker had a little bit of a mix of historical events, I guess from that desire that you would jump out of Tito's youngest committee, where the merits of the Serb army were disputed and claimed to have waged hegemonistic wars and enslaved all our peoples and peoples, until now the Serbian army was waging liberating, defensive wars. Positive modification, I must say. As far as the agrarian budget is concerned, the minister of agriculture is by no means transferring money to various old projects. I say again, it's easy to suffer the village, it's a little harder to suffer in the country. You sell your land, so when you're politically qualified, then you buy a land out there again, you become a peasant from the city, and then you start fiercely defending agriculture. Look at the wonders, where were you in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, when Dusan Petrovic was in 2012, when 200,000 cows were slaughtered? With this in mind to say that by February, Turkey will buy 2,400 tonnes of beef, and then another 7,000 tonnes, that it bought 10,000 tonnes of oil, etc., that our exports from agriculture and the food industry are growing in Turkey, which is commendable, of course we haven't heard. It is important for Putin's birthday, but it is important for farmers and that they can feed cattle and have a market where they can sell it, far away for them, perhaps more important than the birthday of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Russia, Prince Alexander, etc. It's more important for them that they can produce and sell it. Look, I have a statistic that says -- in 2010, and I handed over the documents to you, Mr. Chairman, last time I showed it, when it was 62,000 euros from an old livestock project on the Old Mountain for Consultative Services, that three tranches for the same day, that's where I showed the documentation, that year's agrarian budget was 186,636,000 euros. Remember 186 million, and when it started, that was probably the year it ended, it was 136,633,000 euros. Today's agrarian budget is 54 billion, so somebody recalculate how much it's in euros. It's about 400 and a few million euros. I don't know how someone doesn't have a dose of criticism at 186 or 136m euros, and suddenly it's very loud at 54 billion plus 600 and some millions for cooperatives. One more thing, there are loans from Abu Dhabi, Mr. Minister, for irrigation. It seems to me about 100 million euros, I think the irrigation loans go to agriculture, unless we modify and mix it with something else, so we say - no, that money doesn't go to agriculture, it doesn't go to water systems, where about 100,000 ha should be irrigated. The bay system of the old project was just a watering can of flowers. I showed it once. It was the bay system of Dusan Petrovic, Sasa Dragina, Slobodan Milosavljevic. They planted a lot of vines, but only at the former prime minister and left us below 20,000 ha of vines and brought down the export variant and the possibility of getting a boost that is very important in the EU precisely for vineyarding. Instead of raising farmers to plant vines, they raised the former prime minister and left us below 20,000 ha, and Serbia once had 70,000 ha. It's good for us to do it again. As for livestock, I've already said that 200,000 cows have gone missing, that they've been slaughtered, but many cooperatives have been slaughtered. The gentleman who taught the cooperative doesn't remember, I Googled, not a single statement about the criticism of the privatisation of cooperatives that wasn't possible under the law, where various small and large tycoons from the DS bought for the d.o.b. cooperatives in false debt-confidential affairs. The cooperatives are gone. The consultants took 62,000 euros in cooperatives and they all had a nice meal today when we have to raise all this, when we have to raise agricultural production and food production, when we have to renew cooperatives and for the first time the funds for cooperatives are allocated, they have not been allocated to cooperatives, but 170,000 are missing from the agricultural land in the cooperative property in Vojvodina. There was no objection then. Now that they've taken everything, both land and money for consulting services, their mouths are full of villages, cooperatives. As -- this government has done nothing, and my God, they have done everything, but in contrast, to destroy agricultural production and thus reduce the possible touch of money from the EU to Serbia because our production has been significantly reduced compared to the one it was in 2000, in 2001 despite sanctions and the 1990s. We had more agricultural production than 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010. My God, while consulting services were paid for tens of thousands of euros, nothing mattered. The only thing that mattered was that it wasn't petty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61988	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61989	It's not a replica, but according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. Here it is said in the context of my personality several insults you have not responded to. First of all, genetic modification. I don't know who stands for genetic modification? Do I, which is why I am excluded from the SANU Village Committee, or are you changing the Food Safety Act and formulating that genetically modified food and genetically modified food for animals and feed from genetically modified organisms? At least call the Institute of Language in SANU and ask if something like this can survive, and here is the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional and Legislative Affairs, so let him confirm that. Secondly, there is not one of my statements in the context of what has been alluded to the Serbian army's conquering intentions, nor will there be, nor has there been. And this is a classic example of the abuse of a congregation speaker, and let it serve those who abuse. Thirdly, I was just discussing on the basis of data provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, with the signing of the Minister of Agriculture. You can level the stenogram. That's why I handed over a copy of the document that was delivered to me, not a single comma, not a single digit I dropped, I just did an additional calculation based on the reduction in those percentages. About my relationship with the cooperative, it's really unnecessary for me to speak to this rally. You have a bibliography of works. After all, gentlemen, three and a half years we've been here Members of Parliament without having any letters on the site next to our name and last name, except for the President and Vice President of the Assembly. I wonder why? Publish biographies with bibliography and then the entire Serbian public will know who did what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61990	Comrade Chevarlich, I really don't know what part of me I broke the Rules of Procedure? No one mentioned you, no one, not at any time. Did you recognize yourself as Tito's youngest councilman, I don't know, probably wasn't even born then. As far as genetic engineering is concerned, I didn't recognize you either. Third thing, this isn't expensive, it's a session of the National Assembly. As for site editing, you see it with the service of the National Assembly, do not burden the MPs at the session. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (Yes) All right. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Risticevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 103 and I'm asking you to pass it on to Tito's youngest councilman that it's not my fault if someone under that firm recognized himself in the O.R. It's also not my fault if someone identified themselves after the modification. There's genetic modification and there's political modification. I'd like the youngest of Tito's committee to show me the folk costume he wore by 2010, one single photograph, to see him in the folk costume, to see him, that youngest of Titus's councilmen, to ask and ask him to deliver me a photo in a folk costume, and I'm going from this political and professional modification that I think the youngest of Tito's committee has done, to apologize. I'll tell the entire National Assembly -- people, I've made a mistake, man always wears a folk costume, there's no political disguise, there's no political modification, I'm wrong. But let me see that photo. I would also like to see a thousand copies of a study on the cooperativeship written by Tito's youngest board member, for which he received 63,000 euros from Dusan Dragin and Dusan Petrovic. I would also like to see a statement criticising in public the disappearance of cooperatives, the disappearance of cooperative capital, 170 thousand hectares in Vojvodina, the disappearance of almost all the cooperatives that had property worth hundreds of millions of euros and which was sold for free. I'd like to see that. Finally, to remind you, as far as genetically modified organisms are concerned, you must remind the youngest Tito's committee of the law on genetically modified organisms, which says that the cultivation and traffic of genetically modified organisms on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited and that the law is a stronger act, an executive, a stronger act, prohibits something from the declaration, because the declaration is merely a declaration. And when someone, despite the illegal ban provision, offers a declaration, which is not binding, it actually wants the law to be abolished without allowing the declaration to pass genetically modified organisms on the small door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61992	My colleague Rističević, you know what, being Tito's youngest councilman wasn't easy at the time, but I still don't see and I don't want to correct anyone's youth mistakes. You don't want the Assembly to plead? All right. Col. Risticevic does not want the Assembly to declare its injury to the Rules of Procedure. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61993	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been some doubts here about co-operation between Serbia and Turkey and I can only tell you that Turkey's President Erdogan has also arrived with the Turkish Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, not without reason, of course. A cornerstone for building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, which is a very important project, is set up. Nine memorandums on co-operation in various areas have been signed, with the goal of reaching 1.5 billion euros in trade between Serbia and Turkey. Also, more than 200 Turkish businessmen have arrived in Serbia. Last year, trade in goods with Turkey exceeded a billion euros, and in recent years it has increased by 200%. There are 515 companies operating in Serbia with more than 50% of Turkish-owned capital. Serbia and Turkey's relations are extraordinary and economic co-operation will only strengthen and no one should doubt that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61994	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, colleague Sarovic. Mr. Chevarlich, on what grounds? (Miladin Ševarlic: About the amendment. You do not have the right to discuss amendments, you have spent the time planned for you as an independent MP. (Miladin Ševarlic: Replica, she mentioned me.) No, she's just given statistics, nothing more. She didn't mention you at any time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61995	So, let's re-engage Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you followed yesterday's discussion, Mr. Antic, who sat there yesterday instead of you, said he followed very closely the previous days and I was interested in something about your discussion. You, in fact, stated that imports into Serbia during 2019, because you said that the previous years were not so proportionate, but that imports into Serbia increased primarily because much production equipment was imported. You claimed it was the most modern equipment, that it's quite expensive and that's what increases imports. The other thing, which you also claimed, was that a lot of raw materials were imported for processing. Now, if that's true, it would mean that Serbia is expected by an economic boom in the coming years and already in the next year, that with these new, modern machines, we will produce and export a lot. However, I'm curious to hear from you whether your data is correct, so did you say it by heart or if there was some official document that would confirm it? I asked Minister Antic yesterday, he avoided answering that question, I asked and now I'm asking you, first of all, to answer, and then to deliver that information to me. So, for what period do you, as Minister of Finance, have that information? Is that the first quarter, is the second quarter? Do you have any monthly data? So, for what period of 2019 do you have accurate data on imports and exports from Serbia? Of course, it must be a structure to see the structure of imports and exports. Secondly, I would ask you to deliver what you have to me as a People's MP. You know that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61996	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61997	Thank you very much. Here, I've prepared you tables around the structure of our imports. The tables since 2012, very precise, from the first eight months of 2019, so I'll be more than working to be, to give you these tables and these figures. This is for you, by the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61998	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u61999	Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, this debate on amendments is a reason to take another good look at these bill proposals, which refer to state aid. In fact, here the government is trying to get state aid, which is thought to be every single dinar or any other kind of help, from local to republican level, something the state singles out, which is basically true. But what the government wants is to establish complete control by the so-called commission, which will decide whether and in what way state aid is needed, in some larger proportions, to assign it to this or that user, whether it's all in accordance with the law, so that we have, not duplication, but multiple controls that a potential investor is going through, which would apply for state aid. But what's the point? The point is, even where the state should invest the most, except for this road infrastructure, other than the sewerage network, except for its investments in agriculture, it invests in energy. We are witnessing the last days of something that, in any case, should be a serious topic of thought, which is that, based on the permits that people, investors, received a few years ago, by the Ministry of Energy, led by Zorana Mihajlovic, started investments, construction of small and medium-sized hydropower plants. It was a project behind which the current government, or rather the government, was behind, where energy development policy clearly indicated that it should stimulate people as much as possible to do so, not only solve the energy deficit, but in some ways improve and speed up exports. Many who went into the project at that time, based on all the permits, regularly issued by the ministry, even the minister who at that time, in the ministry united and protected the human environment, went out several times to promote what the state is doing, which helps such potential investors, now we are in a situation that these people have to give up for the reasons that locals or locals, in most cases decided that they cannot build, mini or medium power plants, in their area where they live, claiming that it's anti-ecology, that it destroys nature, that we don't get into all these reasons. But the bottom line is, is this message to potential investors, who are going to decide tomorrow, eventually, to deal with investment and to invest part of their energy development funds, not to have any legal certainty. That if it changes, by any chance, personally in the ministry, and instead of Zorana Mihajlovic, Antic comes, instead of Antić comes Antic two, that it should and how can it mean that there are no more rules, which were when Zorana was one, Antic two, etc. I'm not saying this for any other reason, I'm saying it's because people realize how much it's made sense, when it comes to investment. Now you have a situation that tomorrow, any project in the field of energy, not to mention other areas, to pick up locals or some stakeholders, to organize people who are not going to do so and to stop this project. They can stop the highway tomorrow, say we don't want the Preljina-Shielding highway passing our village or across our cataracts. What's this all about? Where's the government's responsibility? Where's security anyway? How does that means tomorrow that the state of justice? The state has helped, in any case, stimulated it to invest in the energy sector. We know what kind of affair was about the wind generator, so it ended up with some actors getting promoted, becoming Prime Ministers. Is it necessary here, in these financial transactions, that someone who will eventually see their chance for a political career appear? That's the point we need to talk about when it comes to state-separated funds and the funds allocated by investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62000	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 5 by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, are here not an accent on state aid but is an accent on the control of this state aid. Now, Mr. Minister, the SRS anti-corruption team has analyzed the phenomenon of corruption in detail. Our serious knowledge is, and here we are, that what is in the largest area of construction, above all in Belgrade, is, of course, due to the largest number of construction works. In the second place where these corruptions are seriously carried out are local self-governments. What kind of funds are these? Most often, the funds the Serbian state has made from the EU to help local self-government. Here, great help is being given to you by the EU in forming a strong opportunity to control the state aid to the citizens of Serbia for controlling their money that they are sending. The fact that they are ready to invest about a million dollars in strengthening and efficiency of the Commission for State Aid Control indicates that for two years already, a project has been done for it and that around 20 different seminars have been held in most cities and municipalities, where around 130 employees were present. How and how to control these state aids, they do not trust what the government in Serbia has done so far. This is also related to Chapter 8, where serious competition policy is being conducted. We could hear here that we want to keep the aid in the area of agriculture to ourselves and that no one can influence us. What the state of Serbia singles out is likely that the EU will not get involved unless it strengthens the potential of Serbian businessmen who will be able to be serious competition on the market for foreign farmers. If that comes up, then it's a hell of a question if you're going to be able to intervene with as much as you wanted. We would prefer that we had the opportunity here to see how and how this state aid will be forwarded, or how economic operators or even private persons or registered agricultural households will be able to compete on these amounts. We don't have that. If there is no such thing, if there is no predetermined criteria, then there is always the possibility of abuse of what is called state aid. Here under state aid, I say this more because of the public in Serbia, it's not always cash. State aid is also giving up part of the revenue, State aid is also the write-off of some of the claims made, State aid is also the subsidisation of interest by the state etc. I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia, to say that they do not expect much help from this law that we are already talking about. It'll still be the way it is, the way it's been so far. Yesterday, when I spoke, it was mostly all about the lives of Serbian citizens, a large number of young people leaving Serbia, and the minimum personal income, or the lowest labour price, increased the average income. Just to let you know that Serbia's youth is leaving for a four-euro captain in Slovakia, to some other countries. You know what that's gonna lead to? It will lead us to the price of this work jumping from the current maybe two euros to eight, nine or ten, because we will run out of labour. The way to prevent it, the way to treat it is also more effective state aid. Of course, we always advocate to control not only state aid, but to control the spending of all funds collected by Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62002	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62003	Thank you very much. As you said yourself, and you've noticed well, so this is the State Aid Control Act. What's very important is just that control. The law itself defines the way and methodology of control. The State Aid Control Commission is an institution that gives consent or gives approval to any type of State aid, and local self-government if it has a desire to talk to an investor, to assign, for example, land for the construction of a factory, etc., has the obligation to apply to the Commission, the Commission on the basis of criteria, and the criteria are already defined in the Regulation on rules for the granting of state aid, the regulation has been updated since 2010, with clearly defined criteria and for state aid in the fields of ecology and energy and transport and other areas. So, on the other hand, the control mechanism exists entirely. Finally, the commission, which is under the new law in the jurisdiction of the republic's parliament, is in charge of carrying out the control of the state aid grant in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62004	Thank you. The title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that the Law on State aid control is very important, because every user, every citizen, needs to know how funds are spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget, anyway, how his money is spent. The Serbian Radical Party believes that no commission, no agency, any other body in particular should carry out this job of controlling the spending of state aid, but that the job is done exclusively within the ministry itself. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 of this Bill, in which the text of the law contains a foreign term – de minimis aid. I asked to delete this member because I find it inappropriate for foreign expressions to be incorporated into the text of the law. The reason for not accepting my amendment is because the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term "de minimis aid" has existed in the Serbian legal system since 2010 and that it has been published in "the Official Messenger". Gentlemen of the government, being published and standing in the “officer ” does not mean that it is right. It's about like if you, if you had parked the car last night and stayed undetected, you'd have said it again today, the traffic millier warned you, and now you're saying it – so I parked there yesterday. As far as my remarks are concerned, as a linguist and as someone who has a sense of this area, I have to point out once again in this home to our concerns as consciously as possible, and it seems more unconsciously, we pollute our native language daily. Do writers of these texts have to use aliens where they don't need them? What does the government's legislative service do about that? I'll give you a few examples from these financial proposals. State aid of small value – de minimis. What would be wrong if there was only a small value left? Then, designed fiscal implications, then, establishing a downward public debt trajectory, etc., not to count, there are many.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62006	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62007	Thank you very much. This article, article 8, is otherwise a very important member of the entire law relating to the aid of small value. Therefore, the aid of small value is defined as aid that has no effect on competition, which is why it is called small value, or de minimis aid, and which can be allocated up to 200,000 euros over a three-year period. It is because there is no effect on competition, therefore, that it is not subject to state aid control, but I am the one who has given that aid, such as local self-government, that is all that is reported to the Commission that is monitoring the granting of state aid. I think it's very important, because then you have the opportunity to support through these smaller projects and less aid some projects that would otherwise go through a slightly more complicated procedure and be subject to state aid control. On the very terms, firstly, this term is mentioned for the first time and in 2010 in the regulation that I was just talking about, so the State aid rules regulation, and marks the concept of small value. On the other hand, it is also in line with Chapter IV of the Unique Methodological Rules for Regulation Making, which has just been defined by the Serbian Parliament. Let's say you have some other expressions, like Goodville, which is the accounting system accepted term for so-called. Intangible property is also used in sublegal regulations relating to the Accounting Act. In some ways, some expressions are standard, internationally acknowledged, and I think it is quite clear that, given that the name of the member – aid is a small value, and only in brackets is de minimis aid, it is clearly defined what it refers to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62008	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62009	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, for the sake of the public, it is very important to say that, in fact, when you take the term and definition of state aid, it refers to every form of giving by the state for certain start-ups of economic activities that potentially have a destruction of competition. Therefore, in fact, we are now talking about separating the concepts of what little giving is, what is what counts as state aid and what is what public investment is. Let's say, if you look at what the Republic of Serbia has done with foreign- and domestic-based subsidies, what it has done with public investment in infrastructure, and what it has done with certain grants related to local self-government, then it is clear that the EU can qualify as state aid, so we needed to define exactly what state aid is concerned with this law. Well, so in this bill of law, of course and control, and so in the bill of this law, that's why we have this article 8 that's talking about so-called. small values of state aid, which do not disturb competition. It is therefore very important that the citizens of Serbia know why we are doing this. We're not talking about any new agencies or any new commissions. The Commission has so far existed in the framework of the Ministry of Finance's work, it is now crossing, practically, into the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to say that this transparency is provided by just crossing jurisdiction, and ultimately, co-operation with the Ministry of Finance will be much greater and control much greater. Because otherwise, the Ministry of Finance has its control mechanisms through budget inspection, through work reports, through co-operation with internal audit, and ultimately co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the DRI. It is therefore important that this law exists, when any member of the EU, ultimately, asks the EU itself how much you are stimulating, or potentially destroying competition in the market, we say these funds, are related in this way, their structure looks like this, well, even that part of the small-value section, up to 200,000 euros to local self-governments, exactly in a transparent way, and ultimately, it has been available to citizens through its reports of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and towards the Parliament site which, ultimately, all citizens have access to when reports at committee meetings. Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted, perhaps on the political side it is completely understandable why MPs of certain parliamentary groups who are not seeking to enter Serbia into the EU do not accept, simply, neither this law nor these amendments, but I think Serbian citizens must know why it was necessary to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62010	Right on line, MP Dubravko Bojic. Just ask your colleague for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62011	It is true, Mr. Minister, that you have indicated from which date this term dates in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, but I have talked about the threat of our mother tongue, where our premature Europeans, in their copying practice, European directives and alignments with European legislation, are willing to go so far as to give up Cyrillic, perhaps our native language. If you do, you must adapt them from the EU to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia with maximum protection of our interests. We've had cases that in your unspeakable copying practice, you've copied whole paragraphs with all the printing errors, the language and the printing errors, even the interaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62012	Right on the line, Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62013	Thank you very much. I didn't understand the tone because of the copying practice, I don't know what we've copied and what your comment is based on. Therefore, this Law on State aid is one and a general state aid, one liquid that is very, very important for promoting the growth and development of those enterprises or those businesses that should be the bearers of our development, and on the other hand may have a problem with the response, i.e. by the EU. I don't think there's anything written on that side. If there are some standard terms used in international practice, I also see no reason not to use those terms. Otherwise, the law itself, as you know and see, is on Cyrillic, so I didn't understand that comment on your part. Once again, therefore, a very important law, which gives us the opportunity to have businesses and industrial branches, the economic branches, be competitive and that the state of Serbia has the right and the possibility to help those it considers to be the most needed, to be even stronger in the competition, and on the other hand there is no problem in the response by the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62014	Right on line, MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62015	This copying practice did not specifically refer to this bill, so I was clear, I said, in my practice of agreeing, the copying of the EU directive goes so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62016	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62017	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, state aid control is very important and necessary in order to ensure equal business conditions, and thus to ensure equal opportunities for the success of all entrepreneurs. Also, one important aspect of state aid control is the obligation to the citizens of Serbia, because they need to know how their money is spent. Article 8 on which we have intervened in the amendment is governed by the Small State Aid Institute and we have suggested that the position of the first member be changed and that although this type of assistance has no significant impact on the distortion of competition in the market and trade, we have proposed that in the position of the first text – EU member states be replaced by words – and other countries. The position of the SRS towards the EU is clear, and this amendment, i.e. this formulation, primarily meant competitive co-operation with all countries, regardless of whether or not those countries that are members of the EU are working and thus excluded any possibility of absolute conditionality and pressure from the EU. The EU's goal is to control the spending of funds and their participation in granting state aid in order to reduce the economic potential of Serbian companies if they need it, favouring their companies and all under the pretext of protecting competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62018	Thank you. The word has a minister, sir, Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62019	Thank you very much. In a way, I responded to a similar amendment that you had in another member, but just to quote what you said – conditioning and pressures by the EU. Well, no, it's exactly the law to which it's defined completely vice versa, so the EU gives us the opportunity to control state aid for ourselves. There's no conditioning, there's no pressure. That is why it is important that the number of countries to which State aid control is concerned or whose competitiveness state aid granting can affect only the EU countries, without extending that list to other countries because we do not have a problem with granting state aid in other countries. So your amendment would just be harmful to the issue of our granting state aid to other countries. I hope we understand each other. So, in this way, the European Commission not only conditiones us neither pressures nor pressures but vice versa, it gives us the opportunity to control ourselves by providing our own state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62020	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62021	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, therefore, are talking about the term "de minimis" which refers precisely to the rules for the granting of small-value state aid. Today, we have already talked about a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that is every international roof agreement that sets out some priority activities that Serbia should meet in order to get closer to economic flows, to integrate into economic flows and into EU political flows. One of the priority areas for establishing a free trade zone between Serbia and the EE is this particular area that we are talking about today, which is state aid control. State aid control falls under negotiating Chapter 8. These are the obligations our country has made by signing the Agreement, which I have already spoken of. We also have members 107, 108 and 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and these are rules that are also important for the area of state aid control. This small-value state aid has not actually reported to the Commission since 2013. Thus, the grantor of such State aid himself decides on the justification of providing such assistance, granting such assistance, while respecting certain minimum and maximum amounts. The maximum amount is 200,000 euros in dinar equivalent. So the government's argument given in the opinion that we've been given refers to the regulations that I've now agreed on, so I agree that this amendment is being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62022	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62023	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9(1). Proposal for a law on state aid control. I requested an amendment to establish a stronger control of the so-called. independent bodies. Practice has shown that all independent bodies are finished, only formally independent and that this practice should be interrupted once. In many cases, such bodies are instruments of some foreign government that have no good intentions towards the state of Serbia. And not only that, corruption has always been present in such bodies, which is a major social problem for all regimes, so this government is no exception in that regard. Now someone, call, an independent body needs to exercise state aid control so there is no possible abuse, and he's just corrupting it. Practice shows that corruption is the most pronounced in these bodies, so trusting in state aid control doesn't lead to these bodies anywhere. There is no successful control of state aid if she confides in these bodies. That's why I think regular state authorities, not some independent bodies, have to do this kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62024	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62025	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Stevanović. So, according to the law currently in force, the State Aid Control Commission forms the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have just wanted to improve this degree of control and make this commission the same, if I may say, more independent than the DRI, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency and the formation of this commission in Parliament's jurisdiction. So, the National Assembly is now a control body that forms a Commission for State Aid Control under this new law. I personally think that it is much better for you people's MPs, and I think that this is the government's clear intensity, that we are going to go to the Commission to be fully independent and under the direct control of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62026	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62027	Thank you. Of course, this commission needs to achieve operational independence and independence, and of course it should not be under the control of the executive authority. It is precisely this bill that achieves its independence and independence in full capacity. There is no better way of transparency in the work of this commission than the way proposed by the law. In fact, the commission will be legally obliged to report to the House of the National Assembly, namely to submit a report on its work to the MPs by the end of March of the month for the previous year. Otherwise, what is very important, and also regarding the formation of this commission, as an independent body, is that the SNS policy is such that our relationship with crime and corruption is zero, i.e. by forming this commission in this way as an independent state body, is precisely aimed at preventing corruption in every possible form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62028	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62029	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, certainly it is important to control state aid, and how. I have to point out that the former government didn't stick to those ouses and that it wasn't controlling state aid. This best proves the example of the former prime minister, known as the farmer in the attempt, Mr. Zivkovic, who in the subsidy damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget with 532,000 euros, just because he was calamising the vine on grass. Speaking of which, let me say that this man is also famous for what he suggested, when he spoke about Glazzara Smederevo, that he suggested that we shut down Jelizara Smederevo, and the workers sent it home on N1 CIA television. That's not just him, it's the case of all these representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, not to mention Dragan Gilas, known as the jiki mafia, who was usually naked when he entered politics and came out of office with several hundred million euros. Let me say, however, that the best thing he said about them is that they really are the crooks, as regards the inefficient spending of budget funds, was best spoken by our ambassador, and their representative DS, Mr Bashar, who said that DS is a self-government, interesting community of swindlers and thieves. Finally, Mr. Minister, let me say that you are daily exposed to the pressures of any untrueness, both you and the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Besides, it proves the latest pressures since yesterday and the day before yesterday. It's some kind of scientist's name, otherwise known as the secikes, carapanjar, Rasha. I want to tell the public who it's about. It is known that, on an unwarranted basis, for several years now, it has been untrue about the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, and it is about a scientific character known as the Twitter teacher, who muds every day, not only the Republic of Serbia, but also the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62030	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62031	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment proposes that the Commission be given state aid control form by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is a solution proposed by law, a better solution. For what reason? Because the Commission will be responsible for its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by submitting annual reports, thus creating greater independence for the commission, above all, independent of the excellent government. What are we gonna do with that? The degree of control will be improved, the final result will be better control and strengthening transparency in granting state aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62032	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62033	Thank you, Chairman. The proposer of this law went to the National Assembly with a completely new text of the law, although the law with the same name was passed in 2009. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a new text of the State Aid Control Act, an amendment proposing to delete Article 2 in Article 12 from the text of the new law. The reason for this is a well-known view of the SRS that EU liquids did nothing good to the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, the legislator proposes in Article 12(2) that the expertise and training of the person running for the President of the Commission for the control of state aid or a member of the Council of this Commission shall include, inter alia, the knowledge of the legal flows of the EU. The bill's proposal envisioned that the law enters into force on the eighth day, from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, and its application begins on 1 January 2020. In addition to the provisions laid down in Articles 9 and 24 of this Act which begin to apply on the date of entry into force of this Act. Otherwise, these are provisions relating to the Commission for State Aid Control and should say something about them, given that they are very interesting. So far, the ministry has provided space and other conditions for the Commission to work and to carry out expert administrative and technical tasks for the Commission. The new law now provides for the Commission to become an independent and independent organisation that exercises public authority and has legal personality status. The funds for the Commission's work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget under the specific budget heading. The space, equipment and resources necessary for the Commission's work shall be provided by the Government. The Commission has professional service and follow-up services, therefore a classic example of the increase of the state apparatus. In addition, in the law of the Republic of Serbia, insisting on meeting EU flows is why we have submitted this amendment insisting on what is in the interests of Serbian citizens, which, of course, has been deafened this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62034	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62035	Thank you very much. Let me just answer these two comments and two suggestions. As regards the date on which this law enters into force, it shall enter into force on 1 January 2020, except for those members relating to the selection of the Commission itself. So, what we want is to adopt this law immediately after the adoption of this law, if the MPs vote for it, to conduct a public competition, to elect the members of the Commission, to be prepared to start with the implementation of this law as of 1 January 2020. On the other hand, Article 12(2), which you are talking about, is related to certain criteria, to some knowledge that members of the Commission must have. So this is the necessary knowledge, if anyone wants to deal with this topic, and you've seen from the debate so far that it's not that simple, very specific, difficult to understand, complicated, and on the other hand very important matter. Therefore, knowledge, theoretical and practical knowledge from the field of state aid, and of course it is necessary to implement the Law on State aid control. Competitions, of course, need to know the competition and the area involved, since decisions on State aid relate to whether or not they affect competitiveness, especially in trade with other countries. Competitions, of course, need to know the competition and the area involved, since decisions on granting state aid refer to whether or not they affect competitiveness, especially in trade with other countries and, or legal flows of the EU, given that they relate to EU countries. As we just said, it doesn't apply to other countries, which is good for us. We wish that, without violating the principles of competitiveness, we help some of our businesses, some of our investors, some of the ideas, some of the projects that the state has, to make them more competitive and more successful on the market, not disrupting the liquids of clear and fair competition, which is defined throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62036	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62037	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the town of Leskovac enjoys great trust from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Evidence of this is numerous investments by ministries, without which many significant investments would remain unrealised. Leskovac was visited several times in previous years by President Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, as well as almost all the ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're at the top of the government's separation, headed towards Leskovec. This is also witnessed by 450 million dinars, which were paid into the Leskovec budget at the end of the year, as well as 504 million dinars for the second phase of work on the wastewater treatment plant in Leskovac. It's about phase two, so-called. A line of mud. And, a payment of 600 million dinars to build a city collector that will power the raw materials central wastewater treatment plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62038	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the title above Article 20th and Article 20th of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62039	With this amendment, we have drawn attention to a serious problem in the country that you have been in power for seven years, we have promised you will solve. It's about the salary you've provided for this president of this committee, against which we've, because you heard the SRS' position the other day and today, these jobs that are both serious, necessary and complex, should be done by those people who have worked so far within the Ministry. There is no need for you ministers to question the work of the ministries and the work of the government. You say that it would certainly be even better and that it would not be subject to any influence, it should be transferred to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. That's my God, he's talking about the government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you'll form that commission. There are already people in the ministry who have done this, there are equipment, archives, data, all of this is written in this law, and then this commission will take over, but you've overpaid the president of the commission. We draw your attention and the amendment said that the president's salary cannot be higher than the minister's salary, but through an explanation in a single sentence, we draw attention to the problem. The amendment points to, we wrote, the need to edit profits in the public sector. It's your pay grade. The payment classes were discussed by you who were now the government while you were opposition, so when, in fact, those who were members of the SRS together fought and claimed that payment classes had to be introduced to make these profits really the way that, if there were no privilege, there would be no illogicality and then when you became an opposition party, you claimed that it was also necessary. Mr. Arsic, what are you frowning on? You were a radical, and you were a progressive, and you were always about to introduce pay grade. But when you came to power, you forgot about the pay grade. All the ministers who have been through you for the past seven years and Kori Udovicki and Ana Brnabić, and now Branko Ružić, the first thing you promise is payment classes, and the paying classes are obviously not even in sight. Why are we sure that's the case? Well, because you did not accept this amendment, you say for what reason - for the reasons that the legal arrangements are made to bind wages to judges in an appropriate judicial instance in accordance with the existing legal assets of the Republic of Serbia. Here, I consider myself a good lawyer, this is not very clear to me – and it also does not deviate from those mentioned in the case of the salary of the president and the members of the Competition Protection Commission, the protection of rights and public procurement procedures, the fight against corruption, etc. You can't introduce a new right from one wrong, you've deliberately set up all these salaries of these bosses here for listing these regulatory bodies. The main problem is that in Serbia there are, I don't know now, but I'm talking first of all about the public sector, nobody knows at this point how many hundreds of salaries there are in Serbia that are higher than the president's salary. Is that normal? It's not. Is it normal, Minister Mali, that your assistants or State Secretarys have bigger salaries than you? It's not normal. There's got to be order. Is it normal for the same job at the agency, for example, to be called some kind of advisors, associates, and I don't know what they call tenants in the ministry, they work for a minimumer, and maybe 50,000 dinars there? So, it's a completely messy public sector pay system. This, of course, affects the total amount of money and how it works. Many people in the public sector, you have to agree, don't do their job well. But there are also those who know the job and who do it well. Those who do not work well are those who are being accepted during election campaigns for a certain time, so if they have a good time campaign, if they bring enough pictures, the ballot will remain permanent, without desire and intending to learn anything. That's what you ask your associates, you'll see how much trouble he has with those. Now, among other things, and because of that, we repeat, paying classes are something that you are obliged to do, because you have promised the people or that will remain one in a series of unfulfilled promises, and here for seven years it's your unfulfilled promise, and it's a big problem, and what the problem is is exactly the fact that you swore in election campaigns that you would solve this problem. So for this reason, we have submitted this amendment, confident that you will not accept it. We know that there are those with high wages that you've listed here as an explanation. So, we just wanted to initiate, first of all, to draw public attention to something that's abnormal, nakaradically, I don't know what term to use. As long as you don't introduce paying classes, you won't have any good employees, you won't be doing a good job either in the state administration or in local self-government or anywhere in the public sector. So, I repeat once again, does anyone in their right mind think it's normal that an official at any place in the public administration can have a higher salary than the president of the state. Now it's completely irrelevant who the president of the state is, we're talking about something that's principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62040	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62041	Thank you. So let me answer two comments that you've had a chance to hear. Namely, paying classes are very important, and that's where we fully agree. For your information, we were here this morning, before I got here, I had a meeting with IMF representatives. That pay grade system and the whole methodology is going pretty well. I told you last time, by the end of the year we'll be done and we'll be applying that system over the next year. Remember your and my conversation and the final accounts report for the previous, I don't know, 10, 15, 12 years, how many years, and we'll discuss that when we discuss the 2020 budget. So, things that are in some way, maybe someone didn't pay attention to them or whatever, we'll sort it all out. I agree with you that the system of payment classes is very important, that this relationship of fair and equality between jobs that bear the same responsibility or demand the same expertise is very important and I say, we will carry it out next year. On the subject of commentary on Article 24. So, some fluid or practice, however, is to pay the person who runs independent institutions equally with the salaries of judges. So it is in the Competition Protection Commission, so it is in the Anti-Corruption Agency, so it is in the Commission for the Protection of Providers' Rights, and so is our proposal to be in the Commission for State Aid Control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62042	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62043	It's good that you, Minister Mali, understand the problem, but believe me, the problem is understood by all the ministers back seven years, even more, and by those who were in that other regime. The problem is that every year you hear – by the end of this year the pay grade will be completed. I admit, the truth is that you have fulfilled the promise of the final budget accounts for the previous period, it has fulfilled the promise. But, well-intentioned advice, don't promise ministers, it's nicer to do something, and then you cheer the nation up – here we have made payment classes, now it's going to earn the same employees at the public administration in Raznje, as well as the one on the Savaweave and the one on the Black grass, and the one in Serbia's Montenegro, and the one in Zajecar, etc. It'll be one of the reasons why people don't run away from these places. You know how to pay for it now? He says – life in Vranj is cheaper, so they can have less salaries there than these because there is more expensive life in Belgrade. That is, but whether we want to get someone back, or someone to go back to their place, or not to go out of that place, and among other things, there should be a salary that, in this case, is exactly as much as pay is the same job in the center of the big where he would like to go. So it's good to understand, but I'm telling you, don't promise until it's over. You know, with how much heat Cory Widowsky talked about, how it -- here, here, just, just a knock. With how much heat Ana Brnabić talked about it, it worked – just to print it out. So it's not like that and God forbid it is now. We will all, we insist on this because it is good general for the state, for the budget, for the public administration, and therefore for all citizens living in Serbia. It's always in our interest, that's why we're writing amendments, which is why we're distracting you, and it's in our interest that everything the government does is in the best interest of the state and of all the citizens who live in this country. We'll never tell you anything bad when you do what we insist on. But here, when you do those paying classes, when we discuss it here, we will say – Sinisha Mali has only fulfilled the promise. For now, you're on promise, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62044	Right on line, Minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62045	Thank you very much. So I'm aware absolutely that it's neither a simple topic, nor a simple methodology, nor a simple system. It's about a big change. That is why for the past year and a few days as I perform this function, I have been careful when giving information and/or announcements about the application of this system. A very important system. Here's a year, dear Mrs. Radeta, we've been dealing with this system. I'm sure of what I just said, and we'll have the whole methodology completed by the end of the year. After that, we're waiting to talk to the unions, we're waiting to talk to the public administration employees, but at least we'll have something to talk about, because still, I have to admit, we didn't have quite the exact details about the structure of the most prominent public administration employees. I think we are very close now and after that we are absolutely ready to look at the pluses and minuses and the advantages and disadvantages of any system or methodology that we will ultimately apply, but that is necessary, I absolutely agree that this is necessary and if you look at the past few years of what has been done and in collaboration with the IMF and without them, in the end and in terms of reforms and the Tax Administration, reforms of the banking system, reforms of other institutions that primarily relate to the control of the business of public enterprises, the establishment of so-called companies. The fiscal risk control units within the Ministry of Finance, etc., I think that this section relating to payment classes will in some way be the rounding of the reform package that was agreed with the IMF just a few years ago. As you know, this agreement expires on us in January 2021. By then, we will certainly have that system implemented. I say, we have a couple of tough months of talks and negotiations with all the interested parties over the next year, but I have no doubt that we will make a deal there, and that system will eventually succeed and implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62046	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62047	Just one sentence, we Serbian radicals would like you to finish this job without that IMF. We've got smart people, there's a lot of them in the ministries and people who know their jobs, and we know the state of our country best, we know our people best, we know the situation in every part of the public administration, so do it yourself, it'll be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62048	Right on the line, Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62049	Thank you. We do it ourselves. It's just one of the items that we discussed with them about reforms that need to be done. There's no one else to do it, certainly, to ourselves, so on the other hand, teamwork is at stake, the whole government is involved in it, all the ministries. I say by the end of the year and next year we'll be discussing much more details on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62050	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to use a few minutes to look at the issue of this amendment, or the issues we are discussing today, but also the various assessments and attitudes expressed in this room today. First of all, the issue of state aid control - yes, it is important and is not wrong for those who say that, if there is no proper control, it is possible to use these kinds of programs and abuse them. In addition, cases have been recorded in the Republic of Serbia when it happened. It seems to me, on some previous occasions, that we have talked about this particular subject and have shown that it has been officially found that there has been abuse and that it has been officially found that in the largest number and most drastic in its dimensions these abuses have been, you remember for sure when, in the pre-election time of 2012. So black on white was found, the former regime did not hesitate that this type of abuse was committed. Of course, these programs later with these kinds of drawbacks, to be mild in judgment, choosing the term we're going to call them, had to experience a certain revision. The fact is, of course, there is no such abuse today, that it is not being observed. On the contrary, when we say that maximum attention is given to the desire, the intention that these programmes be prepared in quality, to well define criteria and scopes of assistance, that, first of all, take care of the effect that, let's say, some foreign investment can cause in the Republic of Serbia, about the positive effects we are talking about correctly, and therefore, precisely about the number of jobs that are being provided, we are talking about the total level of investment that is coming, that then, on the side of the country, we are putting in the best possible way possible. Of course, it is no secret to say that this kind of abuse in the pre-election period of 2012 is not and is not the only kind of abuse that has been achieved and, of course, it is no secret to say that when it is done correctly, when responsible and domestically, then it can be talked about positive effects. Thanks to these positive effects, serious and responsible policy and in this segment, but also in every other issue regarding our economy and our economy that have established Alexander Vukic and SNS, we are talking today about hundreds of different already realised investments, hundreds of different projects that have brought new jobs, and we are counting hundreds of thousands of jobs. At the time when abuse was used and when it wasn't enough to abuse the real, you didn't have this kind of effect. We, to remind you, have recorded the loss of jobs and this drastic loss. We're talking about a period of several years just from 2008 to 2012. Official statistics say half a million jobs lost. And now, look at the way it's done, whether it's costing itself, unorthodox and damage, and what effect is being built in that period that we certainly have to remind ourselves of. We must, among other things, because today, here, among other things, we are being asked to compare ourselves with that period. Well, one of the folk MPs who has been elected to one of the 2016 election lists, and that's why no one should be angry, because each of us chose where they would participate and who they would share the election list with, says, let's see, to compare what happened to agriculture. We can, of course, and we should always see and compare to agriculture and the job issue and the average wage issue and whatever parameter you want, and the one you don't want to see, let's look into each other's eyes and remember. We, ladies and gentlemen, have talked about these things these days, too. We showed these things. For each sector you can make such a nice parallel display and look at how it used to be, it's small and yellow, and to look at how it is now -- it's big and blue. This specifically refers to the amount of funds we have through the budget, and we are talking about this rebalancing which is the theme of this session, which we voted yesterday. So that's this level of big and blue. The better it is, the naked eye sees it compared to this little yellow one. Well, if we need to talk about how many states are singled out, how many countries care for each sector, and even for the one that applies to agriculture, we can, here's the look-out and everyone says, this is two and a half times more if it's about separations. How much does it make sense for someone to say here and is it 2.3% or 2.4% less? We're not talking here at all. In Serbia today, there are no differences of 2.3% and 2.4%, two and a half times more, two and a half times better. These are some differences that man, if he wants to speak honestly and honestly, he has to notice and he can't admit even in accordance with these objections, and specifically that rebalancing yesterday was voted upon. There's a minister. He can fix it if I'm wrong in some numbers. Is it related or not to, among other things, over two billion dinars of new ones in this sector, the agriculture sector and just in the area of subsidies? Over two billion of us brought this... (Marian Risticevic: and more. ) This is over two billion, and there seems to me another half a billion on various facilities and infrastructures, again for agriculture. They correct colleagues who take care of these numbers very carefully, I sometimes round up a little, but, you see, always to our harm. I don't want to give us too much credit, and we have something to say. Is that a good thing? Is that a compliment? I'd say so. When they mention what is happening today with Serbia on the foreign policy plan, so is the good thing and to praise that we have such good relations with both the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, which some of them, to God, care for here, so good that no one could ever boast of these former ones, from this regime that has tried to do whatever it takes, using malversions, breaking laws openly, making damage and terrible money by getting elections, but nothing worth it, they never had that level of relationship in any way, not about the economy, nor about our business co-operation, nor about the infrastructure that we do today, and with those of our partners besides other partners that we have, but I must tell you, neither about the issue of Kosovo nor Metohija. Do you want to talk about what we do for Kosovo and Metohija today? Here, it can go again in the context of this session, again in the context of this rebalancing. Let the minister follow again, so if it's necessary to correct. Is it precisely about this rebalancing whether over 2.5 billion additional funds are foreseen for the Office for Kosovo and Metohija? That says nice in the description. That's what the Parliamentary Budget Office did. Any MP can get that material, any MP can use it. Worked by people an accurate analysis and say – transfers to levels of government over 2.5 billion to encourage economic development, support for the functioning of local capacities, educational and educational institutions etc. We are still announcing, and that's what the president of the SNS parliamentary group said here when he called on our countrymen to fight for their future and to go to the elections on October 6th. Reminded of a man in the plan, the official plan of the Serbian government, the official institution, could no more than 350 new projects related to Kosovo and Metohija, directly in the service of life and the survival of our compatriots on AP territory, worth over 150m euros. Isn't it good, isn't it commendable? I'd say so. All of it, and for honest recognition of who is and how hard it is, who is able to provide what result. Among other things, to remind himself of who he is and when he made sure that 15 states withdraw the previously given consent, or recognition so-called. "Independences" of Kosovo and Metohija. And that's one of the indicators of who's fighting and who's able to when they're fighting the score and make it. That it's not just a wish, without which there is, of course, nothing, but knowledge, the ability to do the result. The former regime didn't do that. Those on whose lists some became MPs in 2016, they never bothered about these things, because we know they were busy with something that was much more important to them. For hundreds of millions of euros that, but not in investments, not for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but for the accounts of their own companies, 619m euros, to remind us, as revenues were allotted to Dragan Gilas's accounts. It was their preoccupation, and that's why they didn't do other things. And how did they treat Kosovo and Metohija, as they do today? Here's an example for you today. When I say today, you know, I mean literally today. This is one of their favorite tabloids, called "Today". They've been moaning for days because Rada Trajkovic and that Rasic, who spoke fluently Albanian and said - I'm a Kosovar, I'm a proud member of the youngest state in the world. They're moaning about how they went on Sunday. Now you see what it says here, I am reading to you now, and you feel free to check that I did not make a letter wrong: “What does it mean to win the Self-Determination and the LDK in the elections in the former southern Serbian province? “ It is for them, and they say on the front page of Kosovo and Metohija the former southern Serbian province. They say "open" people. That's what they think, and they advocate it, and that's what they do, and those favorites of theirs that don't get off their front pages. I think, above all, of Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and other coalition partners, Rade Trajkovic and this Rasic, according to the Kosovoers themselves, according to the inhabitants of the youngest state in the world. Otherwise, people who have openly said they advocated political co-operation with Aljbin Kurti have been talking about it for years, not once, three or four times, Borko Stefanovic has tried convincingly to explain why Kurti is a good man, this Kurti who advocates great Albania, this extremist that Serbs cannot think of, has always been a desirable coalition partner for them, but it is a question of relations. It makes no sense that someone is asking us a question that we are fighting for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who are fighting for Serbia on every agenda, what and how we do and who and how we respect the world. Our policy is to pay everyone more, even in the public sector. By voting all together, that's what we've provided. It's already been said, but let's do it again. On average 9.6% increase in salary. For different dams, from 8 till incredible 15. You know what? There'll be more. Speaking of fulfilled promises, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia at the level of 500 euros will be one of Alexander Vukic's and SNS' promises. Surely among those more important when you look at what people in Serbia naturally care about, but it will be one of them. The salary of the President of the Republic, someone mentioned, you know, I'm not telling you anything new when I remind you. This job Alexander Vukic certainly doesn't work for his salary, this job is primarily done with his heart because he loves himself more, because he loves the people and because he sincerely wants something to be done for him. When the job is done day and night, then the average salary is 500 euros in the Republic of Serbia, and there are hundreds of thousands of new jobs. You have more Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, when you turn to people, when you turn to our citizens and ask them, what do you think of all this? Serbs specifically said in Kosovo and Metohija two days ago. Over 98% says – Yes, we trust Alexander Vukic, yes, we trust the Serbian government, yes, we see all the good results. Those who do not see and whose differences between the small yellow and the big blue are not enough to see things, let them take a look and listen to what the Serbs say. If that doesn't help them either, then I'm afraid there's no help, there's no answer for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62052	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62053	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Orlic has forgotten one detail. Why does Borko Stefanovic praise Aljbin Kurti? Why? Albin Kurti, a known terrorist, sentenced in 2000 to 15 years in prison, has been released in March 2001 by the DS, and his political career begins. Borko Stefanovic praises Aljbin Kurti for being allies, because they released him and because they believe they, DS, believe that in a certain way they qualified against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija by getting Albin Kurti, I think, 0.74% more than some other Albanian list. I would like to say that those who released Albin Kurti in 2001, who were legally convicted of terrorism for 15 years in prison, probably expect gratitude from the same released Kurti to help them and to fight not only the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, but rather to make Serbia's position as Serbia's leadership in the negotiations that will follow with representatives of the so-called. "The States of Kosovo".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62054	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to state aid, I've also requested an additional billion dinars for agriculture for amendments to the budget. With that in mind, I'm obliged to remind you that apart from the agrarian budget that someone calculated at 4.99, we have the means to co-operate. That's over 600 million dinars. Everyone forgot, and I have to remind the minister of 500 million dinars from the budget reserve that were used for the intervention buying-in of wheat. So it certainly belongs to the distribution of agriculture, so that 5% of them are not 5%, those 4.99, that they are far more than 5%, don't need to be particularly proven to those people who want to understand that. It's hard for unreasonable people to explain it, because if they could be explained, they wouldn't even be unreasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Committee on Agriculture, all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, not only the president, have repeatedly, over many years, asked to raise funds for agriculture and agricultural production. All forgot the payment of commitments and debts incurred during the yellow cockroach party, 10.2 billion, when then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic made a decision, along with the government, to pay for it with public debt. This has never entered the balance sheets of the agriculture budget, as before the end of the year it was a public debt paid to farmers. They got the money, and the state booked it as a debt, like a public debt that has to pay. Also, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the agrarian budget should be increased and the position of all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, an undivided position, is to increase these funds by several billion or by as much as we can earn, or as much as we can stretch, to cover ourselves. You need to live on the earned, you don't have to live on the man in charge, and what we earn more needs to be shared. All our citizens deserve more money, especially farmers. We want that extra money to be allocated to livestock, to obtain breeding heifers, to increase the livestock fund, because let us not forget that by 2012 200 thousand cows were missing, that the real, as Mr Atlagic says, "cowocide" by Dusan Petrovic and his team. We have potential and plant production that doesn't use our livestock. Our pastures are almost relaxed, they need throats, high-quality breeding throats, they need throats that will give a solid amount of milk, so they don't produce milk, but they will give a good calf and a good toll. Because in the export of beef we have on "halal" markets, according to the "halal" standards, by kosher" standards, so, Mr. Chairman, and in the European Union, we have a chance to export significant amounts of beef, because Europe has made hyperproduction of milk, high-milk cows do not give a high-quality throat for it, and therefore they are importers of beef meat, and we have a chance to use plant potentials, meadows and pastures that we are increasingly using and three and a half million tonnes of corn plus soy and wheat products for cattle diet, so we can automatically with 0.33 head per hectare to go to one, which would increase the livestock fund by about three and a half million throats, and that would guarantee an additional value in GDP of seven billion through processing. We can't use that potential for one year, but it's time, Mr. Minister, that you still increase it a little bit next year, so it's not 5.01, or 5.02, to throw in one billion, two, especially for this intervention buy, not to use budget reserves, because they may need for some other purpose, for God's sakes, and so on, to try to get some mineral fertilisers, that's a special item for the Stock Reserve Directorate, for mineral fertilisers and an intervention ransom by changing mineral fertilisers for wheat and corn, corn to trade for cattle, pigs and cattle, and in such a way we wouldn't lose money, it wouldn't be cost, but we'd have that money in the slaves and we could react on the market, we're saving the price of live cattle, and so we're restabilizing. In this way, we would not lose money, but rather preserve and prevent farmers from protesting because we could influence through ransom, through exchange and exchange, the prices of agricultural products and the prices of live cattle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62056	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic to article 35. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above the article 48th and the 48th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62057	We heard everything here. Here we have heard about Kosovo, about agriculture, and about super control, and about language norms, but what is a disappointment, is that the government continues to state as a strong argument of the IMF, so that's exactly what it was about paying classes, it's important that the IMF has a favourable attitude towards everything the government thinks it is doing. The Serbian government looks like them when they have their opinions, but they go to another to get their opinions, so they are richer for another additional opinion. That's what the Serbian government looks like. Serbia's government thinks they're good paying classes, but the IMF has to confirm that, and then it's convinced that it has two opinions and that those two opinions can go to parliament. Just a man not to believe it. You have a form. You in this law clearly define form, define control. What means? It's coming down under state aid. Gentlemen, we're discussing something we're not going to say that is not significant, it's significant, but the huge assets that are out of control are in public enterprises. Who controls these funds? Gentlemen, you have a system called Serbia's electricity. Serbia's electricity year by year is recording worse and worse results. Who's in control of that? Was anyone responsible for that? He didn't answer. Have you tried to change the handlebar? You haven't tried to change the handlebar. Why? Because you claim they're professional enough, that they're capable enough. You, in fact, have, to put it in some jargon, you have a hollow constructive story. It consists of having a structure, but it's hollow. You are telling us here how you will control, how control will be established for both small and large funds, and then you enter the language controversy, and you say that half of Serbia, if not more, speaks the minimus. Sure, sure, especially Pomoralje and that part about the Bather. They must be talking like that. They're familiar with the expression, it's a bit of a stretch. With that expression, they're born. You serve everything and everything to cover the essence. Speaking of these small amounts of assistance, gentlemen, does this mean that you will control the resources that are allocated to maintain the work and function of NGOs? Are you going to control the funds that are being allocated to hold a festival at the Petrovadine Fortress? What's his name? What my colleague Sreto Perić would say – that. Will you control those funds? It stands out from a republican level of 35 million dinars, thank you, Natasha. It's more than a small asset in the minimum category. It's more than a minimum, as Pomoravlje and the surrounding of the Kopalniks would say. Will you control it? How are you going to control it? You give from a republican level of 35 million, from the province level you don't have small funds to maintain the festival. Local self-government sets aside funds to maintain the festival. It is held in the space of the historical cultural monument of Petrovaradin Fortress. You're funding the collapse, the destruction of that historical cultural monument. Does that make any more sense? Why? Because the IMF, so-called, has a mild attitude in maintaining such manifestations. That's from before when she first took the so-called step. Since then, the EU has been kindly looking at anything that would potentially harm Serbia, or youth or Serbia's youth. It is a more drug-selling festival than it is in a year's traffic throughout Serbia. You are all sitting in this House, you who belong to the majority, who hold the power, and you marvel and admire – how radicals speak openly, and don't forget that both your children and your grandchildren are in potential danger of being victims of such festivals. Instead of introducing order in this country, to control the huge, huge resources spent in public enterprises, we are here to say, for the next year, how one of the colleagues carried out the exact information here, Telecom will not be paid into the budget because they decided not to pay dividends, that in some other way they are engaged. Here's what my colleague said. Wait, guys, did anyone come out with clear information here how much money was spent unplanned, against the law, not to mention, in those big systems? We have a devastating fact here. We have a devastating fact that local self-governments are spending their resources the way that leaders think of it. State auditors are sending us reports. When were those reports discussed? It is part of a general debate about DRI, and it is not concrete about some local self-government. What's that for? That's why, Serbian radicals, with this amendment, we want to shorten the deadline for the adoption of a sublegal act, i.e. sublegal acts that will precisely define some of the provisions of this law and instead of a year, as you have determined, from the day of adoption of this law, we are asking it to be three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62058	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word now has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not want to deal with language barriers, but I keep asking myself one question: why does one of our state-owned enterprises want to make a negative campaign, which is what I'm saying when it comes to EPS? First, it should be known that for decades it has not been invested in EPS by 2012. Decades have passed until investment has begun and when someone has objections to EPS, they should know that the modernisation and improvement of the efficiency of EPS work is being speeded up. I'm just going to give some examples that I know about. I don't want to get into something I don't know. Let's say that the wood power plant has two blocks that were a total of 320 megawatts hours per block, that they could never reach more than 294, 295 in their production, since they were built they couldn't achieve that production of electricity. After the modernisation that ended in 2016, it seems to me, these blocks can work with over 350 megawatts of hours. So from 290 to 350 megawatt hours is a pretty big difference. Carbon-suming systems were created in Kostolc, so block two and three, and in Wood, block three and four. It is also working on modernising our “Nikola Tesla” thermal power plant in Obrenovac. Now someone would like to say that, while modernizing, this company is turning into a loser. That's what it looks like. Now explain one thing to me – how do you think a whole system that is being remounted and modernised can work at a maximum of its capacities? I don't think that's possible. It's like driving a car to a mechanic, so while he's at the mechanics, you want to drive him. Well, he can't. I don't understand why one of our state-owned public enterprises is trying to make you a loser. The second thing, even in the worst times of the EPS, has never been activated by guarantees issued by the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for loans they have raised, let alone today. So, after 30 years, we're building the first serious energy block in Kostolc, i.e. in Drvno, it's not good, we're modernizing the thermal power plants we have, and that's not good, and someone else is saying, the losses are 15%, and the others are five percent. If someone knew what a cosine was, like, 98 or 97, they wouldn't say that kind of thing. What's the extent of using the trafo, what's the degree of use of the electric motor, the transmission grid, what's the om's loss, what's the loss of the counter-engine power? He doesn't know that, but it's important that he knows some statistical information that nobody knows anything about. So don't say unverified things. Is EPS strategically important for the Republic of Serbia? Of course it is, because it gives us energy independence and stability in the first place, and when we attack companies that give us energy stability and independence that aren't just for households, as many people say, that's why we'll always be able to import electricity or produce. The problem in Serbia is no longer a problem, but in Serbia's Development Strategy, we have the thermal power plants and any other power sources necessary for the development of our industry that re-launchs a whole real sector, so now we're going to be throwing ourselves at the data that essentially, I can say, has nothing to do with real life. So, Elektroprivreda is a strategic public enterprise for the Republic of Serbia. I can say right now that it's not for sale, and every time you're trying to take down a company like that, I feel like someone's preparing it for sale. I have this feeling, because when someone says that a company is inefficient, that it's expensive, that you're losing it means it's cheap. When you say a company is successful, it works well, it means it has a very high value and it's hard for someone to decide to buy it for some small money. I say, it's not for sale, it's strategically important for the whole of the Republic of Serbia, for its economy and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62060	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62061	Just a sensitive man like a gentleman has feelings, and that's a fact. Dear fellow, I'll try to explain what the loss of the Elektroprivreda consists of. You have some standards when it comes to energy. These standards clearly state the degree of efficiency, i.e. the exploitation of certain sources of electricity. When it comes to hydropower plants and thermal power plants, then something that is standardised is that losses can be tolerated, when it comes to the transmission network and when it comes to production itself, up to 3%, 5% is already alarming. It says there's been a complete maltenia or major threat to the entire transmission system. I'd like to explain it to you in anatomy. Let's say your thinking center is in the bottom of your back, the reproductive center is in your head, and now depending on the length of the path that passes that information, so the reproductive center is going to reproduce it. It's the other way around. The quality of the network here must be at that level that there must be no loss of more than 5%. When the loss is 14%, what you're saying, and it's true, and in such investments, such investments, it's warning that it's not about the transmission of electricity, the quality of the transmission, that it's not just about production, but that somewhere in a magical way, the electricity produced in thermal power plants or hydroelectric power plants disappears. That's the point, and it has to be examined. You know, I respect the fact that you're alluding to the fact that huge funds are being invested for renovation, for adaptation, for improvement. It's all true, but the losses are enormously high. Warning, alarming, impossible. Impossible, even when the whole network is, not to say, destroyed, by quality, not physically, but by quality. You remember when there was a bombing, then those power losses weren't that much, they weren't that much. That's the point. The state has to control, to say, the alarm – from the planned revenues in the Elektroprivreda, so much has been achieved, and so much is planned, not achieved because of that, that and that. (President: Time.) ) When it comes to technical conditions, then something is not normal because it is 5% maximum, sir, Arsic, 5% worldwide. Over 5%, that's alarming. That's what this is about. So it's not because of the quality of the network, it's not because of the quality of production, the good part of this percentage isn't, it's because of something else, and the other thing we should be dealing with right now and finding out. It is not that we are destroying to devalue the value of a public enterprise worth Serbia, it is not only the ruling party or yours or my personal value. That's the value of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62062	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic. VEROLJUB ARSIĆ: At no point did I say that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is owned by any party or SNS. Let's get this straight. When I spoke, I said it was very important for Serbia, not for SNS, don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. Just a few minutes ago, those centers you mentioned and the reflexes are denying you. So, let's get this straight. You may have had a permutation of the position of reflexes and all that, but I'm not going in there. That's your problem. My problems aren't at all. We can talk about these technical aspects, I believe most citizens won't understand us, I don't even know if you'll be able to understand. I believe it's really hard, and especially since you're taking data that's not proven to anything anywhere. So the losses can be different. I can't explain things to people, but, well, that doesn't matter. If someone has something in their production plan that doesn't come true because of various situations, meteorological opportunities, etc. And you're showing it like someone's stealing electricity... You don't understand. I understand perfectly. So, first of all, I know that the Energy Maintenance Act says that you can neither create nor destroy energy. First thing, if someone steals electricity, report it to the authorities, so let them handle it. It's physics. Report this to the competent authorities. Let them handle it if someone steals electricity and thinks he steals. Technical capabilities and networks are what they are. The network is reconstructed, restored, modernised, and there is no conversation here that this is happening. You can say that, too, that it's not true, but wherever you go across Serbia, the events deny you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62063	At no point did I say that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is owned by any party or SNS. Let's get this straight. When I spoke, I said it was very important for Serbia, not for SNS, don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. Just a few minutes ago, those centers you mentioned and the reflexes are denying you. So, let's get this straight. You may have had a permutation of the position of reflexes and all that, but I'm not going in there. That's your problem. My problems aren't at all. We can talk about these technical aspects, I believe most citizens won't understand us, I don't even know if you'll be able to understand. I believe it's really hard, and especially since you're taking data that's not proven to anything anywhere. So the losses can be different. I can't explain things to people, but, well, that doesn't matter. If someone has something in their production plan that doesn't come true because of various situations, meteorological opportunities, etc. And you're showing it like someone's stealing electricity... You don't understand. I understand perfectly. So, first of all, I know that the Energy Maintenance Act says that you can neither create nor destroy energy. First thing, if someone steals electricity, report it to the authorities, so let them handle it. It's physics. Report this to the competent authorities. Let them handle it if someone steals electricity and thinks he steals. Technical capabilities and networks are what they are. The network is reconstructed, restored, modernised, and there is no conversation here that this is happening. You can say that, too, that it's not true, but wherever you go across Serbia, the events deny you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62064	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Mr. Mircic has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62065	Comrade Arsic, you are a witness like many of us here that Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic appeared overnight. They appeared by making huge capital overnight thanks to electricity trade, among other things, electricity trade. Now watch. Are you sure one of these two still doesn't have any effect on the electro-priority? They know the mechanisms and how they're involved. I'm not so sure they've been removed and they've been denied any possibility of having any influence. It's very difficult, without any intention to humiliate or in any way diminish your knowledge. Look at the situation. You have a 24-hour period of production of excess electricity in all systems in Europe. For example, there is an exact period when, from 23 to 1 a.m., excess electricity is produced at one of the hydropower plants or systems in Serbia. Dispatches working in these systems, they're rerouting that surplus into other systems. It's a link between the international electricity system. Why? To get that current back at one point, simplistic looking. You know that in Ugljevik, Vuk Hamovic still owns the thermal power plant. You know his campaign is still Mladjan Dinkic. The wolf and Vojin are official, and behind is Dinkic, Labus and all those tycoons who held power. This kind of loss in the Power industry is alarming in this direction that I'm telling you about. Maybe we're wrong. We may be wrong, but the analysis has to be done. It's got to be done. Here's the finance minister. It's alarming as soon as one big system like Elektroprivreda, Telekom or other systems don't pay into the budget annually. That's alarming. You can tell what the reason is right away. (President: Thank you. If he's justified, everything's fine, but if the losses are 14%, that means he's missing somewhere. It's not exactly a bad-state power transmission system to be such a waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62066	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62067	Okay. Now, one of my esteemed colleagues said here, when it comes to Elektroprivreda, in his discussion that on bills supplied to the citizens, EPS is stealing citizens. Let's take the simplest possible bill, at the nominal amount, to see how much the electricity bill is paid, and then divide it by consumption, or the number of kilowatts, so find me a country in this part of Europe or in Europe that has cheaper electricity for citizens than the EPS delivers. Let's get that straight first. The second thing, just to be clear, is that excess electricity doesn't happen in hydrocentrals. It can happen in thermal power plants because those by their nature can't power off the grid, that you don't have a lot of running costs after that. When it comes to hydrocentres, it regulates the flow of water and if it's a good hydrological situation, and I see a man laughing, I just don't know who's laughing at flour, because now I have to be like that, it doesn't matter at all. There are several ways to regulate that, let me say, excess electricity. Sometimes resilient hydropower plants are directed. Should I explain what it is? There's water when it's watering, there's water pumping. You can sell electricity on the market, you can do a lot of things with it. If someone believes that electricity is being stolen and that someone from the EPS is involved, there are competent public authorities, primarily the prosecution, the police. Ask them that question. Don't harass the National Assembly anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62068	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62069	We're not very sensitive to insults, we're used to it. We are not gentle, of course, when we address colleagues, but still a little dignity should be included in the work of the National Assembly. It wasn't nice what his colleague Arsic said earlier, and he was trying to explain to us, I guess at some point he was studying, so he tried to explain to us, I don't know, electricity production, etc., in fact, he showed that he didn't know anything. Since he used a folk proverb earlier, I would also use a folk proverb for what he said, and I would say – what is smart is ashamed of, Arsic is proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62070	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62071	Article 27, Chairman. While an esteemed colleague advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you had to remind her of both circumstances. It's one thing to laugh at and what to do, the other to be ashamed of, and also to the circumstance that it's said here that my nervous system comes from my lower back to my head, and then my colleague didn't answer. I wasn't offended at the time. Then I don't know why they're offended. Why are they going to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure? I don't understand that. So when they have no arguments, then we'll start with insults, so when there's nothing they can do about it, then we'll hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62072	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I can only take the opportunity to ask all the MPs, I have to agree in part with my colleague Arsic that he is offended at the speech of my colleague Mircic. Now, I urge that we all behave with dignity and not insult each other. It's that this was indirect, but anyway, let's just take care of what we're saying. Since we're very far away from the topic and we're talking about electricity production, electro-economy and everything that's not part of this amendment, I'm going to continue to work after this round of violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 57th amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 64th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62073	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna borrow one, now it's not mine since birth, I'm looking at a light bulb, so I'm not Tesla, but I'm glad I was present earlier, so I learned something, so there's a chance we're changing a little bit. Mr. Minister, we recommend that you listen to Serbian radicals for a practical reason. They had not done so before, we had pointed very seriously and responsibly to certain things and problems, they did not listen. First, we distracted them from doing a little differently with stealing their mandate, they didn't do it. Look where they are now. We don't care about them at all, we don't care about them, we care about them, we care about how we care about the fate and life of Serbian citizens. Why am I saying this? Simply because you were there in an explanation for the adoption of this law, you said you were introducing state aid control, so that there would be no competition in subsidisation on the market. Here you have said a sentence to me, that the strong may protect the weak. I don't even know it in Serbia, let alone the EU member states, except for the honour of those who have the same problems as Serbia, so they have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Here you're saying there's going to be equal subsidisation, state aid that can go to a certain level, someone even called here for reciprocity. What does that mean? They 5%, Germany 5% gives its budget to develop and speed up agricultural production, and at that level it borders Serbia. Well, that's a huge difference, their 5% and our 5%. Let's get all the legal regulations in the way that suits us the most. You're referring to this committee and you're saying that it's going to regulate some things. And it didn't even happen when the president of the state went somewhere, he was given a certain problem and he said the state would participate with that money by heart. He says and approves, that someone's green light, but then some rules are arranged to distribute those funds. An extremely high salary to the president of the commission will lead to him being very serviceable to the one who chooses him, and that is always the majority of the assembly. We already have these situations. If he has to control this, then what does the Competition Protection Commission do for us? And what's the state audit for? What, though, is the exact availability of huge resources in public enterprises? Who's in control? Does everything have to be controlled that way? It is enough that certain funds can be obtained on the basis of certain procedures, and then I guess it exists in your ministry and so far you have had an organ that controls the spending of these funds. I mean, if you'd listen to this, you'd be better off. You're famous for that, when I say you, not personally, but this regime has not abolished any agency, but it's only in the form of a commission, so on those of you, I don't know how many, over 200, added maybe 50 more for these eight years, and you have to bear in mind that in each of these regulatory bodies or commissions there are between 30 and 120 employees with extremely high salaries. Among other things, what you spoke about a few days ago and led to the average salary in Serbia being 500 euros. If it were so average in real, real life, the standard of Serbian citizens would be incomparably higher. We don't dispute that some have extremely high wages, some have small salaries. Listen to us, Mr. Minister, sometimes you do what we suggest, because it's not our goal to harm any citizen or even your rule. We know that today a certain number of people must arrive in Rač, collected because someone has promised to pour 100, 200, 300 meters of their way to the macadamian, then he will go there. If people don't want to go to certain places, they don't need to be forced, they don't need to be forced in any way. You have many reasons now, if you are convinced that what you are doing is good, there is no need to do something that Serbian citizens do not like. You're referring to some high percentages during the election, and they're not controversial, that's so much, it might be better if you could barely move to 40, so if you needed a real coalition partner you'd respect, who would respect you as the biggest coalition partner in it, and not win 50 percent, you'd become aware that everything is in your hands. No, it's all in God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62074	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:15 p.m. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We continue to work on the fifth item of the agenda - draft accounting law. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62076	We have suggested that this Article 2 be deleted and this is the principled position of the SRS, essentially not affecting the bill, but we think that the definitions to be introduced, as a legal norm, is absolutely unacceptable. You have one member here who has four pages, where you wrote, I don't know what a legal person is, what a balance sheet, what a statistical report is, what a parent, what a dependent, legal person is, etc. Every time we have a member like this, we say it's not good and we don't need it, especially if we know what you wrote in your explanation, that you don't accept the amendment, because what you're doing is prescribed by some directive 2013/34 EU. Indeed, these directives and this EU make us sick, and that is why we want to, I say there is probably no need to discuss this, in terms of replication, because you have accepted that you listen to everything in the EU, and even in this once completely unnecessary situation. We Serbian radicals are absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU, and we use every opportunity, including such members of the bill, to remind the public in Serbia that Serbian radicals are the only ones who are against Serbia's entry into the EU. Especially, we think we're doing some things, before the other day, which isn't going to happen is special, absolutely unacceptable. We make laws according to EU directives, and the EU gives us far, I don't know how much. So we know that you will not accept this amendment, but we will always submit these amendments, and on the Accounting Act we will go through the other amendments, because we are thinking and speaking in principle of discussion that this bill is not good, that we have a lot of failures, that there are a lot of unfinished things in the law, and that this law will not contribute to anything good, as you said, especially by promoting e-government here, through accounting law. We are in a situation that some important things will not be able to be done in this electronic way, such as temporary situations in the building, such as severances when it comes to the transport of goods etc. I said we'll talk about it through the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62077	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62078	Thank you, Chairman. For the sake of the public, therefore, one of the necessary criteria for the closure of Chapter 6, which is – the right of companies, is also the adoption of a new law on accounting, which will include provisions, i.e. legal provisions of the EU, into our legislation. These amendments are mostly similar, except for the request to delete the different points in Article 2 in paragraph 1. This article adds certain definitions to facilitate the application of the law, but also to ensure that legal solutions are in line with the definitions set out in Directive 2013/34 of the EU. This Directive has introduced newspapers into accounting regulations. The main reasons for its adoption were, above all, incomprehensible provisions that existed earlier, which were in force until then, but the objective and trend in the development and improvement of accounting legislation that should have been followed above all by medium and small enterprises, i.e. medium and small legal entities. The objectives achieved by this regulation are aimed primarily at reducing administrative costs, improving the business environment of medium and small legal persons and saving businesses in EU countries. In order for us to join the EU, we need to meet certain conditions, and one of them is also the adoption and application of such a directive. In any case, it is the rules with which we are harmonising our legislation but we can still maintain a certain degree of freedom in the regulation of national legislation. The result of all is this bill that is before us today, which we are discussing in particular, in order to take part in one of these final stages in the process of harmonising accounting regulation both in Europe and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62079	Thank you. Replica, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62080	Thank you. The bill on accounting is probably one of the laws most still criticised by the profession in the draft. All we Serbian radicals said during the principle debate and what we're going to say in particular is exactly what the attitudes of people who are experts are about this business. Finally, some MPs who would vote for this bill were, when the bill was in the draft, making remarks, more or less, with these remarks we are talking about and then claiming that the law would not be voted on. We understand that you make a deal between the executive and the National Assembly, but that's not good. The National Assembly is, however, the one who should finally say whether a bill is good or not, whether it will be accepted or not. Indeed, it would be such a fine example that MPs who are against such a bill remain principled and say that the law should not be passed. The colleague said just before what I said at the beginning, that you listen to some directives in law making, and then she said, that we could join the EU, we must pass accounting law among other things. And in order to be able to think about joining the EU, we would have to achieve that by all EU members saying, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, as this will not happen, we Serbian radicals will never change our position on the EU as tombs of small peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62081	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62082	This is about the formulation of individual terms, or concepts in this Article 2 but what is the essence of this whole law, which is good for us Serbian radicals to define the entire area relating to accounting. In fact, no one has any objection to doing so by making it clear and precise, as most parts and legal provisions are stated, to define who can do this job and how an accounting agency, or an authorised agency, becomes. It is quite fine, however, what is very present here, almost a rule that in every law in the explanation, it is based on every law that proposes power is that it is a step closer to the EU. Or, in the end, that digitisation is something that is inevitable and that digitalisation will speed up our path to the EU. Yeah, maybe it's from the point of view of the government. Perhaps, the government sees that this digitalization process will solve a lot when it comes to administration, but we have a particular problem here. First of all, we have a problem here to train the people who are going to be doing this job because, slightly speaking, it's chaos. You have people here who have agencies, who do this job, right now I'm talking, who don't even know what a continuum account is, they have no idea what accounting is. They have something called a program through which accounting can be conducted, i.e. books and inputs all data into the program, and this program casts out results. And now it's about getting people to work out, to regulate these licenses who can and how and to establish control. Control is very important here. And these general terms, these general places or something that has been mentioned recently, that is the fourth industrial revolution Serbia should enter. You know, there are normal periods of society development. You can't exactly come from the original community into communism, it's a process that lasts and you have to be aware. We can say - we'll do it by e-mail. But look at Serbia. It is necessary to look at the reality in Serbia, how many people are qualified for, what are technical conditions and a number of other things, so that we can now argue that it will be something that will make a big contribution in Serbia. It needs to be done all the time, and first of all, order needs to be put in place when it comes to accounting and people who do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62083	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62084	Thank you. It's a good thing Mr. Shanovic came, too, and I'm sorry you can't answer the MPs, but I have to call on one of your statements, because I followed how all this was happening when I consulted on the draft of this law. You have confirmed what the SRS is against, that these regulations comply with EU rules, in part the closure of Chapter 6. Then the avalanche over you, I think of the minister, you and all the creators of this law by many accounting experts in Serbia who are not consulted for such a thing, because you understood that this amendment, which I also submitted to Radeta and Mircic, is only a way to show complete dissatisfaction with such a bill. The union of accountants and auditors of Serbia is the only one that will be able to carry out new licensing for some future accountants. The question arises why they have this exclusiveity. We know the answer, because they're the only ones licensed by international organisations for that kind of thing. Citizens must also know that this Alliance of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia did not drink all the minds of the world and that it is abnormal to ask for such a thing from people who have both graduated from the Faculty of Economics and specialized in the field of accounting and were indeed right from the Association of Accountants of Serbia when they gave you huge remarks on something like this. Here, now I'm not to be personal, but one of my best friends is a woman who was long ago in 1989, licensed as an economist for a job like this. And now someone who has so much experience and so many employees, renowned accountants in the city where I come from, in Kragujevac, asks himself a question, as well as probably accountants in Belgrade and people who have been doing it for two, three or more decades, why this kind of innovation? Because it is required by EU regulations. On the other hand, you've also made a major problem in previous amendments to the law, which is that now accountants have to run the goods bookkeeping and for entrepreneurs and hand over the final accounts, just like they do for businesses. So entrepreneurs who do business one way or another have so much money to pay for it, please every bookkeeper will say you'll pay me the same as to run the company, because when he does write off the goods, because when he does write off the goods, when he books, it's the same thing as if he's going to cancel out the palettes of some tiles, pipes, bricks, or one bun, one pants in one buty, and so on. So you have not been fair to those who are users of accounting services, nor to those who do this work truly, respecting the profession and with great experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62085	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this area is very important to us. Given the fact that the president of the DRI at the 84th session of the Assembly Committee on Finance said that around 217 billion were misrepresented last year. Given that fact, then anyone who understands something in this area or wants to settle the situation must be prepared to accept certain changes and certain systematicization, as well as to do a unique register of accounting people. Here was a good proposal to form a commission made up of the best accounting professors, a commission that would also have representatives of the finance ministry and representatives of professional associations. And only in those conditions would it make sense to license people who will continue to do this job. When I spoke in the debate on the principle of this law, I also said that there was only one institution that would be able to license people who would deal with accounting. You told me why I force it to be one, when there are two. It is true that there is also the Chamber of Auditors, but who now works in accounting and works as an accountant he can lay down at the Chamber of Auditors, but cannot start working in accounting until he has three years of work in the audit. Then it's pointless, it's completely unnecessary. I think it would be useful to introduce discipline in this area if you gave up your intention, whether it's personal or perhaps a wrong assumption that it would be a good way to qualify accountants, I don't think it is. They are very responsible, I speak for most, and above all I think about those who are members of the Chamber of Accountants' Association, because you know that they have given great support and helped with the reform of the Tax Administration. They suggested that the VAT form, which contains 45 columns in Germany, be with us, even though the original variant was, I think, over 200, and then they reduced to 145. These are people who want to also introduce order and discipline into this area. I think you have both ways and possibilities, and ultimately, the obligation to do so, to have this area taken care of, systematically. And, if it didn't happen to us that someone who's a hairdresser, I have no intention of, of course, insulting any occupation, but certainly, someone who's only a hairdresser can't work as an accountant. We've had such areas so far, and you've pointed out yourself that some people's books were run by those agencies that didn't have any employees. This is not possible and you have already given some guidance where we see that quality improvements will occur. You must bear in mind this fact, to meet the requirements of the profession, not of the MPs, not of some individuals, but of the profession, when it comes to obtaining a license to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62087	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. She reported on this amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62088	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, paragraph 21 defines the concept of the related parties to legal persons in terms of international standards of financial reporting and a colleague has proposed to delete this point 1. I don't agree with that. I think point 21 needs to be an integral part of this law, first of all because that definition is needed to prevent corruption. This law prohibits criminally convicted legal and natural persons and their related persons, as well as their associates from being founders, owners of legal persons, or entrepreneurs engaged in the provision of accounting services, and that is what is stated and defined in point 21. So, as I said, first of all, to prevent corruption, this provision needs to remain in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62089	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Miladin Ševarlic: I'm reporting for word. Professor Chevarlich, you don't have time anymore. It's a unique search with this previous point, so you've wasted your time. You can call me if you have your own amendment and then you have two minutes. Otherwise, you spent as many minutes as you had as an individual MP. The debate has been united, so we've been on the same search since this morning. Thank you for understanding. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62090	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 10. The draft accounting law refers to liability for accounting documents and you have re-formed this member for the introduction of mandatory control of the credibility of that document. However, this formulation of this article is not precise either, or it is not specified how to control the authenticity of invoices as an electronic document. For example, temporary situations that require overt by the supervisory authority. And in order to specify the proposed member, we have also intervened to this Member of the Law by proposing that a new position be added after Article 4 which reads: "For the confirmation of authenticity, accounting documents in issuing temporary situations, the supervisory authority is determined". I would also point out an additional increase in the costs of the proposed changes because entrepreneurs will have to allocate additional funds because they will be obliged to provide all necessary technical equipment, data carriers and software to protect accounting documents from any possible abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62091	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic, Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62092	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 18, paragraph 2. Proposal for a accounting law. My amendment refers to certain obligations of legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs. The law imposes an obligation on those entities to obtain adequate knowledge from various international organisations. The SRS finds such a thing inadmissible. So why are our institutions this guy's, if proper knowledge has to be reached by international organisations. We had a lot of DOS personnel who introduced something like this and who obtained various certificates and various diplomas from international organisations. We saw what that led us to and what DOS personnel taught you there. We sold sugars for three euros, gave away the most fertile agricultural land. We sold the most profitable companies like cement factories, tobacco factories and the like. They sold some commercial giants, so the state takes over all its obligations, such as taxes, municipal costs, social programs, connecting employment to employees and so on. That's why I asked you to delete this part of the text that imposes such an obligation. Something like this is in direct contrast to our state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62093	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanović, Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62094	Thank you, Chairman. Today, we are having a debate on another bill that was found in front of the National Assembly with a whole new text of the law. The new Accounting Act was adopted in 2013. Changes were made during last 2018, and one and the other were made at the time of the term of office, and now we have a new text of the law before us again. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled a new text of the Bill on Accounting, an amendment which is proposed to amend Article 22. Article 22 referred to harmonisation, demand and obligations. We have proposed our amendment to supplement attitude 3, so that legal persons and entrepreneurs in the capacity of creditors and debtors, in addition to the duty of the authorised auditor to confirm the state of claim and obligations have the same duty to business partners. It is certain that, in this way, individual concerns that may arise during business co-operation, but also reduced risks, regardless of the provision of criminal provisions for those who are not disclosed in the notes when submitting an annual report with financial reports, no harmonisation of claims and obligations, there are such cases and, in particular, in the public sector. That is why we have submitted this amendment and we believe that the amendment is more precise. In addition, it also provides certain security in business. We're aware that there are risks in every business, but it's good to have them as little as possible. One of the ways to reduce them is precisely good legal solutions, as offered by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62095	Thank you. The word is according to the amendment, Mr. Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62096	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Mali with associates, after taking responsibility in 2012 so far, the local self-government of Leskovci, headed by the mayor, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, has made it possible to create 5,000 new jobs. The reduction in the number of unemployed continues. The company "Jura" expanded its capacities and opened another new factory. This will allow the employment of 1,200 new people. The project is under way, and it's working on opening the third factory. Turkey's Jinsi company will create 350 more jobs in the area of former Synthetics. All of this is possible because the city bought the assets of the South Express company at the price of 40 million dinars, as well as the property of the Synthetics factory for 30 million dinars, while the government of the Republic of Serbia invested 185 million dinars in its reconstruction and adaptation. In 2016, the Dutch company VNB Knitting opened its production plant in Grdelica, and in 2018 a Romanian factory "Tera Steel" opened in Leskovac for the production of a sandwich panel. In this year, the same factory expanded its sixm-euro plant. This enabled the employment of new 356 woodworking workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62097	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. There's always good news from Serbia's Manchester. Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62098	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the revision, there is a very serious need to carry out an audit of the revenues of certain MPs who have not earned that money. You need to sanction the nelados. Imagine how many subsidies, which someone doesn't want to say, can be paid for the money these gentlemen who haven't been doing their job for months, almost years, how much money they get today alone. So, if I may, it's about 150,000 dinars a day, no matter what they're sitting down, they don't get ambushed. Today, two MPs or two female MPs, Gordana Komic and Aleksandar Jerkov, regularly charged travel expenses from Novi Sad to Belgrade, receive salaries, as well as all others who have not come and do not do their job. Who will carry out the audit and make it clear to the citizens who voted for them to be in parliament how much is this unhappiness costing? Here, let's take Mr. Jesic's example, when was the last time you saw him in the assembly? So, let's get Mrs. Maria Janjusevic. These are two folk MPs from India, who, unlike my little ones, don't do their job. For the viewers who follow this transmission, to know that their receipts are the same as mine, but unlike me, they don't come to work. If they happen to come to Belgrade, they sign up for travel expenses. And it is time for some revision to determine how much it cost the citizens of Serbia, how much this subsidy can be for the passengers, how much it can be for the fishermen, how much we could pay for the orchard so far, how much we could put in the water systems, for something we paid the gentleman who spent a year boycotting the National Assembly, and that I could not determine the real reason to this day. So, no one here has ever hit them hard. On June 13th, I received data from the secretary, after six-seven months of boycotting the opposition's MPs, according to statistics conducted by this CRTA, the Open Parliament, spoke for a total of 571 hours, making up one-third of the parliament, and the two-thirds of the parliament's authority was saying 548 hours. So it's not true they didn't have anything to say. It's not true that there was a media blockade, because mostly in 95% of the cases the transmissions went directly. In those few percent, it was moved as a video for the transfer of the team. I want to know, as well as the citizens, how much does it cost, especially the nelados of Boško Obradović, called Boškić-Ljotic-Yeltic, who started using the password of Dimitri Ljotic – we do not need votes, we need fighters, and we need to enter the institution by applying force, while pulling traffic signs etc? The citizens didn't pay him for that. Therefore, Mr. Minister, it would be good if at least, since there is no punishment, to at least determine to the citizens and to give an indication of how much their unhappiness cost, how much they took a daily note, how much Bosca Obradovic was paid for rent costs. There is a reasonable doubt that we are paying him rent for his apartment, which he registered to a friend, and he bought it from the funds that were intended for the election campaign and which were not returned to the budget, but through fictitious corporate stores, the money was pumped, which Nenad Canak says, and ended up in his pockets. With that money he bought an apartment. He's going after a friend of his from Ivanzica. He also took 35,000 dinars a month to pay his rent. And while the Assembly pays him personal income, rent, etc., food, he spends most of his time raping traffic signs, pulling, sticking stickers, etc. The law enforcement authorities should start doing their job, and we should tell the citizens, to find out exactly how hard it cost, that citizens in the next election know who they shouldn't vote for, who won't do their job, who won't work in their interest, who won't even be against the government, won't resist, so someone who wants to only qualify for personal incomes and travel expenses in the Assembly, and yet they have no idea they're doing their job for which they're very well paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62099	Thank you. The word has Dr Milan Ljubic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62100	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, in modern market conditions, business management is not possible to imagine without information contained in financial reports, i.e. information created in accounting. Accounting shall study and monitor data and convert them into information necessary for management. It is therefore important that accounting policy helps management of businesses, as well as external users, investors, to get a more adequate picture of company performance. Financial reports which would be more relevant, reliable and comparable are essential. The law provides for the obligation of professional calls for accountants in agencies, thus improving the quality of these services. The state will have better insight and control of these legal norms. It is important to have expertise and knowledge in the field of accounting. It is very important that accountants respect all international standards and have continued education, which is also proposed solutions. Another important paper is the delivery of a regular annual financial report. The draft law provides for the moveover of the deadline for the submission of the annual financial report on 31 March of the following year. This deadline will oblige the economy to be more up-to-date when it comes to delivering documents and closing the last year to produce reports in the prescribed period. In order to have a better and more precise picture of the situation, a better assessment of future performances of operators will allow investors to make good investment decisions. The transparency of financial reports and the substantial adoption of this law are therefore important. The goal is to raise the level of quality of financial reporting, which is one of the preconditions for creating a better business environment to stimulate the development of domestic economy and attract potential foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62101	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The 32nd Amendment was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 34th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62102	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, those of the opposition who criticized us, as a result of the small subsidies, who forget to take a bit of a critical look at the times when they were gone at all, but when they were getting the money, while I was talking about the costs of those who boycott the work of the National Assembly, and not boycotting their own incomes, to repeat that today, Mrs. Comic and Mrs. Jerkov, who went through all the trainings, those political trainings at the CIA, probably taught her there that she didn't have to do her job, that she could be paid, and for no reason, today picked up one 8,000 dinars of travel expenses, plus two diaries 7,000, 15,000, 15,000, God to see you. For those 15,000, we could pay off subsidies to some farmer, for example 4ha, for two cattle, for one bull, etc., but we have defined ourselves to pay for the nelados. Citizens of Serbia who chose this National Assembly for their sovereignty through us transferred it to the National Assembly, and we transferred it to the government and as someone who defends the sovereignty of citizens. I ask that the truth be fully revealed and that exactly how much these unemployed have cost us, who for days, weeks, months, have avoided doing their job, how much these axes have cost us, lost, to correctly calculate and to warn Serbian citizens that in the next elections they know who we should not vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62103	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 39th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62104	In a general fight against the grey economy and Serbia is a country wanted by legal improvement in the field of accounting, and in particular by revision, to help bring financial flows down into legal frameworks, to reduce the so-called. The gray economy. What has been burdening Serbia lately is the degree of corruption that is present in Serbia. We have research by international agencies specialising in investigating corruption in certain countries and we cannot boast as a state with some high place, which would mean that corruption has been reduced, even more so in index points, for two index points Serbia has fallen on that ranking list, as there is always talk of some ranking by international agencies. What is also present in Serbia is the irresponsibility of individual members of the government when it comes to the availability of financial resources. While we are looking at amendments here to improve the law, we have one reality that is present in Serbia that for building infrastructure, especially when it comes to highways is simply thrown away with money, with money from budget funds, or with money collected from taxpayers. We are witnesses that already open, with all the evidence and facts, the public shows that the highway, on behalf of the construction of the highway from Preljina to Pojat, is unnecessarily set aside 300 million more than is necessary. We have a devastating fact that in the construction and completion of Corridor 10 and one and the other, due to negligence, due to carelessness, because of ignorance, due to haughtiness, specifically of the ministry, and especially of the ministers, it has been additionally spent on dozens and dozens of millions of euros. And we, no matter how much we warn here, are always facing one of those same facts, which is that as part of an explanation or explanation why it is so, that citizens of Serbia will be the ones to evaluate, and the assessment will be given when the elections come. That's not the point. You may also improve Serbian citizens' current standards, increase wages, increase pensions, maybe give them some compensation if they go to the polls, and especially boost if they vote for you, but remember, those who use such methods will not survive for long. If that were the case, Boris Tadic, because of his authorship on this invention, on this patent, would have invented it to pay votes, to carry packages so-called. Yellow packages, he would rule today. So, on the one hand, we have to look at how to improve the law, to reduce this gray economy, to prevent money laundering, to prevent terrorist financing, and on the other hand, the most responsible are the arrogant, irresponsible ones, who spend a lot of money on taxpayers, and, in particular, the elections are approaching, there will be increased negligence, or a higher level of haughtiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62105	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Professor Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment concerns Article 40(5). I asked for paragraph 4 of this bill to be deleted, as Serbia is not an EU member, we do not need to comply with our regulations with their legislation. I simply wonder -- would the EU not have passed all these laws on me and what would they have passed? In particular, the Accounting Act was on the agenda of this Assembly last year, when there was obstruction in this house, by uniting and joining dozens and dozens of legislative proposals, and we were killing each other by writing and submitting amendments and titles, and title, and subtitle, and mostly on the first three, possibly four members of the first law on the agenda. Why am I saying this? Because they were then important laws from this sphere, from finance, such as the Law on Audition, the Law on Accounting, gambling, value added tax, and I don't know all of which. We Members of the SRS have warned you that what you are doing is not good, that you are voting the laws, and that we are practically not having a word of discussion about them. That is how the European directive came into play, so in parliament only European laws are heard, laws for Serbia to some future European Serbia or Serbia's Europe, if any. We close one chapter at a time, but we close in a European way, not in our Serbian way. We don't have a European standard, we don't have a European way of life, but we're not so far past the world, so we don't have to be disciplined in advance, that they're bringing us back into some context, I didn't say shackles, which are just about to come in two thousand and who knows which, maybe two thousand and hollow years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62107	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 57th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nikola Savic. On Article 57 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62108	Article 57 refers to criminal provisions for economic crimes, and again we have submitted a principled amendment here and we express the position of the SRS and the threatened fines for commercial crimes and for violations, and we do this whenever you have these large ranges. You're saying you didn't accept the amendment because the bill is in line with the regulations governing economic offences. Maybe that's how it is, and even if it is, those regulations aren't sacred. We just want to draw attention that one of the types of corruption is the most represented, let's say, the most people include this very corruption in sentenceing. You, when you have a range of penalties, as you have predicted here in this Article 57, that someone may be punished by a fine ranging from 100,000 to three million dinars for certain economic offences, now you see one who determines, who imposes a fine, how strong he could be as granite, so that he doesn't think of this abuse and that this provision is not subject to corruption. We know from practice, the whole of Serbia, that corruption in Serbia is represented at every turn, in every place. And now you're leaving the possibility to some inspector, some kind of control, whatever, that for the same economic offense he can impose fines ranging from 100,000 to three million dinars. Who's the one who's going to realistically judge to give someone a fine of 100,000 and the other one three million dinars? On the one hand. On the other hand, how can the same or similar economic offenses in the penalty range be evaluated? So someone's going to commit a business offense for a hundred thousand dinars, so it's worth it to him, who knows what he gets if he commits that economic offense, and the other one is going to be fined by three million dinars. It's far from sound logic, from common sense. Again, we Serbian radicals always intervene, and this is how we want to reduce the level of corruption in Serbia. The smaller the range of penalties, the smaller the corruption in those broadest parts where every clerk, every inspector, every controller of this or that utters according to these EU regulations that you bring here, says some measures, says penalties and says, "Yeah, you're gonna pay three million, and this one says -- wait, don't, come on, cut me down to 500 grand." All right, give me 500, you 500, all right, and he fits into that fine that starts with 100,000 dinars. So this is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62109	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62110	Entrepreneurs face a number of problems and before they start a job and these kind of dragon penalties are really inappropriate, especially in this range where really every tax inspector can come and say - this and this irregularity is assessed in the way that everyone sees it individually, so very often it happens when they have to and prove themselves, and it is not far from achieving any quota and budgeting. You all who have had contact with this well know that any tax inspector if he wants to look for hair in an egg can punish an entrepreneur. That's why we thought that range should be lower, compared to one to three, from 100 to 300,000 dinars. It often happens, and believe me, it's the exact data, here, let's say, for Kragujevac, over three thousand mostly entrepreneurial stores have asked to reprogram their tax obligations, for the simple reason that they were not able to through planning their incomes and through activity to settle it on time. It's usually for the owners of these companies, they tend to neglect themselves, think about taxes and contributions that they pay for themselves, and pay for their workers, they can't arrive. Now, when they get into a situation, Mr. Mali, that they need to get into that reprogramme, you know what they charge for? They're charged with health insurance that they didn't even use. And there was Minister Loncar and he said -- how is that possible to charge? You retroactively to an entrepreneur who wasn't in a position to pay for himself, so he didn't even go to get treatment, he didn't have a certified book, don't God forbid he needed it for a kid if it was secured through him, what he's going to do, people had to pay in private. It is the same for farmers, or those registered as entrepreneurs in agriculture. Now it's huge debts. People didn't use it, and on the other hand, if they do anything as a violation, you prescribe these kind of punishments. It's not correct, it's not good, and it's only going to destimulate domestic entrepreneurs if you treat them this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62111	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 60th amendment. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62112	Thank you, Chairman. For the sake of the public, a member of the 60th defines the deadline for the adoption of sublaws, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the deadline be up to six months. The colleague proposed that the sublaw be adopted within 60 days. I don't think there's any need for us to be in such a hurry to pass sublegal acts, because, above all, it's most important that these sublegal acts that are passed be of good quality. If I am well informed, by the new year there will be some 15 more financial laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which means that this ministry will have a lot of work to do in the coming period and that it will take a long time to produce a quality sublegal act, and above all, because the bill says that the sublaw for the implementation of this law will start to apply from the financial report drawn up on the day 31. 12. In 2021, and until the start of application, the applicable sublegal acts adopted under the Accounting Act will apply. So until then, there's plenty of time to bring in all the sublaws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62113	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm surprised he doesn't have any colleagues, Peric. Since we have completed the search on all amendments, it concludes the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. I'm just a little surprised, Mrs. Radeta, because he, a man, is 99% of the time, he, Tomislav Ljubenović and Nikola Savic, and then it's always weird when they're gone. We move to the sixth item of the agenda - Proposal for a REVISION LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Verica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić, Nemanja Sarović, Marijan Rističević, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Dubravko Bojić, Sreto Perić, Miljan Damjanović, Ružica Nikolic, Filip Stojanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoran Despotović, Vesna Nikolic Vukalović, Bozidar Delić, Nikola Savic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Momcilo Mandic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Marina Ristic, Petar Jojic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62114	Just before, you wonder why there are no colleagues, Sreta Peric, who are regular and who are neatly defending and explaining their amendments. It is true, and I am telling you that when you say it on the air, you could say that Sreto Peric went to Ljubljana, where he lives, where tomorrow is the session of the local assembly, and the SRS is recently part of the government at the local in Ljubovija. We have the president of the Assembly of Aleksandr Renovčević. Sreto Peric's team had to do that part of the job as a boardman. Thank you, indeed, for noticing that the MPs of the SRS are sitting neatly in this room. As for the amendment to Article 2 again, what we had in the previous bill. A member you define terms, you explain to someone who will do what the review of the financial report is, what is the subject of the audit, legal review, etc. And you should keep in mind that these regulations are just going to be applied by people who do audits, accounting, people from that profession. They certainly know exactly what the term means, and the essence is in the application of those other members of the bill that actually point to how good this law is or not good. It is not good because this law is also in fact a alignment with some amended EU directives in 2013. Then imagine that you are bringing again, you recently passed a whole law that will only apply once Serbia enters the EU, and now you have a regular, here, now we have, I don't know, a member of the 125th that talks about the fact that the Republic of Serbia is joining the EU on this law. Guys, I don't know how you don't understand how pointless this is, how far away this EU is for us. So if, God forbid, Serbia were to enter that EU, then all these laws could be passed within a few days, if it were some authority that advocates Serbia's investment in the EU. Like this, it really is a complete nonsense for Serbian citizens to be distracted by certain things that have nothing to do with life and will never have to do with it. Never will a member of the 125th law be able to apply in Serbia, because you have predicted that it will apply from the day Serbia enters the EU. Who knows which way we repeat to you? That is what our people would say about the world never.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62115	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's to getting you back on, I hope, in the discussion. You were telling me about this data and telling me about how there was, apparently, some sudden growth in imports of funds to work. I, the right to tell you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, hoped that this was indeed the case. But looking at this document that you've given me, I must first of all say that I expected this to be much more detailed, because there's not enough structure here to really talk about this. So this has to be much, much better divided. The second thing, if we look at the structure of imports per year, you've given data since 2012, then the participation in total imports was 12.6%, then in 2013, 11.5%, so it falls, then 11.9%, falls again, then 12.7% in 2015, 12.9% in 2016, 12.4% in 2017, 12.7% in 2018, and now we have this limited data for the first eight months of 2019, where 13.2%. Looking at this, you first had a small decline compared to 2012 and then you had a growth, again in 2017 a decline below that level from 2012 and this year will be a slight growth. So, based on what we're seeing, there's no way to talk about this big take-off, some big expansion and a high share of importing funds to work in Serbia's budget deficit, which is bigger year after year. So, I'd like to ask you to give more precise information, and I repeat, based on this data you've given, it's simply not possible to conclude what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62117	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62118	As far as the audit business is concerned, we're quite clear here. We in the SRS insist that this and how it is interpreted, in terms of which the powers of the auditors are and what is the essence of the audit. We are witnessing that the material coming to us from the Republic Auditing Institution is huge. Most of it concerns those parts that are financed from the budget, and above all there is the most interesting functioning of local self-government. We in the SRS have examined these reports in detail and astonishing and frantic information is that there are enormous values which, when expressed in dinars, are placed or used against the laws, that is, against the internal acts that regulate the work of each local self-government, i.e. the assembly or authorities of local self-government. It clearly states that the main reason for this is the absence of the so-called ‘republic auditor’. internal audits that would periodically review all these financial transactions, i.e. reports and thus facilitate work relating to budget audits and budget spending, from local, rural and to republican levels. The state should go in that direction, in this direction that as many people are licensed, trained for this job as it makes it easier for the Ministry of Finance, or for all of us. What is startling, when it comes to the current situation, is that many of those who knowingly or in some other way have broken the law and have been breaking it for many years, based on the report and the findings of the Republic's auditor. They are, in fact, out of reach or out of touch of the law, for the simple reason that they represent the governing structure, whether from this party or that party of the ruling structure, but in those main positions as responsible persons have not until now carried any great responsibility. On the other hand, there are also those who have already felt the consequences of applying against their unconscious business, or work, in some public institutions. There must be uniformity, the criteria must be the same for all and those sanctions, i.e. the measures that involve certain penalties to be imposed on all, regardless of which political option they belong or any other division or belonging to be divided. We Serbian radicals insist that people get as much training as possible for these jobs. Of course, there are basic conditions that candidates must meet in order to be auditors and any organisation, especially those from the public sector, must have a licensed auditor and that is quite clear. Otherwise, there will still be chaos like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62119	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62120	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic, even though you did not apostrophe me as a disciplined and dedicated MP. I'm kidding. Since the Revision Act was in the National Assembly last year, and it was voted practically without any debate, that is why it came so quickly to the remont, which certainly would not have been the EU directive. We had the 2013 and 2018 Revision Act, now a new one is proposed. So this law is a new-old form or more precisely an old complemented, typical dossage practice that has earned progressive support. With my amendment, I asked for Article 9(3) and (8) of the bill to be deleted, and points 4), 5, 6), 7 and 9) to become 3), 4 and 5, 6 and 7 respectively, with the reason that Serbia is not an EU member and that there is no need for our regulations to be in line with EU rules. In an explanation of not accepting my amendment, the government has stated that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed legislative solution is in line with the relevant EU rules. The aim and interest of the EU is not to help us to get better, but rather its goal is economic, political and any other domination, which we will never reconcile with. Here we are constantly talking about European laws, about the European perspective, about Serbia's European future, well, I guess we are making our own laws in this House. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the establishment of an effective quality control system in the audit is yet to be achieved. Raising the quality of financial reporting in the Republic is still an imperative, only improved financial corporate reporting can count on a positive impact on economic operators, state authorities, to contribute to a better assessment of the financial climate and enable investors to make good investment decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62121	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 16th amendment. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 28th amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 28th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62122	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed this amendment to Article 28. The bill also changes that – the audit company and licensed authorised auditors are obliged to act in accordance with the law, respecting the principles of professional ethics, objectivity and expertise. The amendment covers everything necessary to ensure that the work of the auditor is carried out in accordance with the law, and you, in the light of why this amendment is not accepted, state that this is because the proposed legislative solution is in line with the relevant EU rules. The SRS position is clear to you and we are absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU, and we think and we are sure that we will never enter the EU. That is why we believe that we should not take over every directive from the EU at all costs. We do not need to work according to their dictatorship and in their interest, but we should primarily work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia itself. Our fundamental objection to all the laws so far, but also to the Revision Act, is that you bring all these laws exclusively under EU orders and directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62123	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62124	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 33(6). Proposal for a law on audit. The amendment itself requires that the word be given - justifiable, replaced by the word - legally. The bottom line of every regulation is that it has to be based on some law, especially when it comes to a law like the law we're considering, which is the Law on Audit. The revision itself implies that this is the final step in assessing or interpreting something. There are no deviations here, up to the smallest details must be in accordance with the regulations, otherwise, why so many regulations that are more and more every day. We had a DRI that had to take care of all this. Finally, after a long time, we received reports on the final budget account for about 15 years back. I have to admit, it's for all the credit. The persistent insistence of the SRS on these things seems to have finally yielded results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62125	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62126	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39. Proposal for a law on audit. Now that we're considering this bill of law, we have the same situation as the Accounting Act. A brand new law was passed in 2013 and was amended in 2018. The promoter acknowledges that at the time of the adoption of the 2013 Revision Act, the law was subject to alignment with 8. The EU Directive governing the area of legal review, which is fully in line with this law. That, meanwhile, the amending Directive was adopted on 16 April 2014 8. The Directive, which applies to EU members, starts in June 2016, as well as EU Regulation No 537/2014. the year with which the current law is partially harmonised. Today, when submitting this bill to the National Assembly for adoption, the Proposer acknowledges that, basically, the reasons for which it has been designated to access the new Law of Audit are, under number one, compliance with the requirements of the new EU rules, Directive 2014/56 of the EU and EU Regulation 537/2014. the year this area is being edited. Well, only then, number two, is the removal of the observed shortcomings in the application of existing legal solutions. That is why the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment that we have suggested that in Article 39, everywhere wording appears in the text, with regard to international review standards and international quality control standards are deleted. The application of the EU directive is mandatory, which is what the proposaler himself wrote for EU members, which is not the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62127	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. Member of the 40th Amendment with the correction was submitted by the MP of the People, Master Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62128	Thank you, Vice President. Let's try to exchange arguments a little bit since the amendment was rejected with one explanation, first I'll say for those who don't know what the purpose of my amendment is. In Article 40, in the first sentence, I asked companies of public interest to replace themselves with words – public societies according to the definition and the Capital Market Act. In addition to the audit report drawn up in accordance with Article 39 of this Law, the Article 40 states that a new additional review report by the Commission is to be drawn up in accordance with Article 39 of this Law, the drawing-up of a new review report for the revision of the company of public interest. The Commission's additional review report should be in writing, to explain that the result of the legislative audit, since it contains a large number of items, over 15. This additional report, in my opinion, is too large and significantly increasing the engagement of the auditor, which will necessarily lead to an increase in the price of audit services, in the revision of society of public interest, and which will additionally burden economic operators. In addition, the issue of the useful value of all this detailed information which, above all, concerns the procedures and audit procedures carried out for society of public interest and requires significant advances from the members of the Commission on the revision of international standards of audit and the audit methodology itself. We propose that this additional report refers to the legal review of public companies itself in accordance with the definition of the Capital Market Act. The reasons for which the proposed amendment is rejected is that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed legislative solution further affects the raising of the quality of the audit report. I don't mind raising the quality of the audit report, but I would also like to work a little bit on raising the quality of the members of the Board for the revision of society of public interest. As regards the introduction of an additional review report for the Audit Committee, which is obliged to produce audit companies that carry out a public-interest review from the point of view of the potential cost-related relationship in its making to the benefit of the same, it is indicated that it should not constitute an additional cost for the applicant of its production, while its benefit is multiple, facilitates the work of the Commission for the revision and gives further confirmation of the quality of the audit report. As I said before, I have nothing against quality, but again we are going back to this apprehension, just some basic elements that must have members of the review committee. If we're going towards this, I think the revision will cost more society, that there's more work to do, and that these additional reports that are predicted by this member, which will cost of course society, might be unusable because, again, I'm at least a skeptic when it comes to, I don't want to underestimate anyone, but we all know well, if we want to be realistic that they won't have anyone to use and that they have useful value in that society. If you could think about it one more time, let's see if you can accept this amendment with a correction, let's at least narrow it down, for starters, until a little bit of reviewing commissions in these public societies are profiled in some time. of public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62129	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a master, Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62130	Thank you, Vice President. Here's another amendment, and that would be from me and the SPS, as far as the amendments are concerned. Tried how and with the previous amendment to at least point to some things that we think are objective nature. When it comes to this amendment to Article 50 in the position of the 2nd word - four years, it is replaced by words - two years. I explained why it was necessary, because the rotation of the audit company where the company can carry out ten consecutive audits, after which there are four years of banning audits. In the response I received, where my amendment is rejected, it is not accepted for reasons why the proposed legal solution further protects the principle of independence, objectivity in carrying out the review of financial reports. If we take that according to the Banks Act, as far as I know, it's a year's break, if there's an objectivity, and here we're looking for an objectivity of four years. That's why I suggested that we cut from four to two, that we at least bring it into some normal frameworks, that it doesn't make such a difference, but I can see that I haven't come across an understanding, but now I'm trying if you can think a little bit about accepting this amendment, because I don't think it's going to disrupt anything if we accept this, to cut from four to two, because these deadlines apply to public societies according to the definition and the Capital Market Act, not to all legal persons. I hope I've had at least enough arguments now to accept this amendment and reduce this deadline from four to two years. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62131	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted the title above the member and article 55th amendment. The title above the member and article of the 56th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The title above the member and article of the 57th amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62132	All these amendments, i.e. these members, refer to the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, and we, by proposing to delete these members, and this Article 57, wanted to draw attention to the unnecessary integration of this profession into the chamber, especially this way. It's been going on, like, since 2000. You keep building some professional associations, and the Society of Judges, and the chamber of this, the chamber of it, and you license this, and you license it, and then those associations are actually one of the main sources of corruption and crime. You're neglecting the fact that someone's finished a certain school, that he's acquired some calling, that he's got some work experience. And all that doesn't matter, it's important that there's a commission of four or five of them that will form that Chamber of Authorized Auditors, that they question that someone who has completed normal and regular schools and who has learned to do a job, who has a working experience, and then someone in the Chamber lacks it for this or that reason, and that failure can only be because he may have been auditing in some firm he cares about, so he's found some shortcomings, and he's still running a case against a responsible person and that legal person, and then someone like that will say about a few of these people from that chamber, that he can't do those jobs anymore. No one's got a problem with the fact that people specialize closely and professionally, but you can't go near normal schools, next to college... Well, what's going to happen to you besides the Faculty of Economics, a state-renowned college that can form a commission that will question and determine questions and so on, and therefore give some assurances, as is done in passing a state exam, a professional exam, and so on. No, but you're yelling at the chamber, so the chamber will take the money, and then this group from the chamber will determine who's licensed, who's not. Well, just remember the troubles that last today with licensed bankruptcy managers and so on. You're sick of work. It's bad for what you're doing. We're just pointing out to you, trying to get you back on some normal path, and first of all, we want to distract the public as much as this government is doing badly, regardless of what you represent as epochal successes, essentially from the aspect of an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen, an ordinary people, we're all ordinary, but conditionally speaking, you're not doing anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62133	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The title above the members and article 58 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62134	Well, we're against the establishment of this audit chamber, and now the rest of the chamber's affairs are defined by this Article 58, which we've asked by amendment to delete, because it's unacceptable to us, indeed, that the chamber determines, as you said here, the ethical codes of conduct of the auditors, whatever that means. Listen, now someone who wrote a code to say this is consistent with it or not. The auditor shall operate in accordance with the law in respect of the audit of the economic operator or legal person for which he is responsible. What would it look like now that we, the State Auditor, are now above him government, right, or what authority, the Assembly, are giving him some codes of conduct? That's not the problem. We have a lot of quality, I am absolutely confident of that, and the renowned audit houses, but it is that the DRI has made the biggest remarks in the bodies of local self-government and in public enterprises, where the government is carried out, so budget funds are spent on indirect budget users, are the biggest possible abuses. That's the problem. Instead of going to root it out and helping, eventually, the DRI and that team of people who ask you to have more space and more employees, so that you can control how in local self-government someone spends people's money, you invent these innovations and chambers that prescribe codes and other conditions and questioning and improvement, how they will determine it. That's really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62135	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62136	So, just for your information, that chamber has existed since 2006. Nothing new is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62137	Thank you, Mr. Mali. Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62138	The Serbian Radical Party has been present in this newly renovated multilateral system of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, since 1991. In all the meetings of the National Assembly, even in 2006, the SRS parliamentary group was also against the establishment of this chamber and unlike others, who have neither programme nor ideology nor goal, we stick to what we were saying then, we speak now. It was shown in the time behind us that this chamber had neither improved the business of the auditor nor helped these renowned auditors to do their job better. Someone thought of it at the time, and that's what's left to this day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62139	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The title above the member and article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. The title above the member and article of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. The title above the member and article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the title above the member and member of the 62nd amendment. The title above the member and article of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. The title above the members and article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62140	Well, what happens in the Serbian parliament, when a small number of MPs are present, especially from the ruling coalition? We are discussing amendments to a very important law. Important in the sense that it is an instrument, an important instrument for controlling financial flows and something imposed by the EU, which is imperative to prevent the fight against terrorism. Terrorists are being financed from so-called dirty money channels. We are here now to witness that in these two days or three days, as far as this Parliament is concerned, we are discussing something that makes an exception to European rules. In fact, we remember well when the argument was almost pre-recognizable for the distribution of budgets, that the IMF and the EU, or the EU institutions, are not allowing pensions to increase, to increase wages, that this must be guided by restrictive policy. You remember how it was defended, those attitudes that we wouldn't be able to co-operate with the IMF if on our own, no matter how much money we have, and then individuals who made themselves appeared, malts not in heroes, where they said IMF – no matter what you think, we won't do it. Not to spread the whole story, the bottom line is the next one. The IMF, as an organisation that makes sure that the debtor returns the money to the debtor neatly borrowed, realized that it could be a social explosion in Serbia because the belt is tightened, because it was taken to the pensioners, because it did not increase the income, because it is all in the area of unrealistic. When the IMF felt the real danger, then he said – well, raise the wages and that enormous increase. Imagine, it's not only twice as big as it is in the private sector in the economy, it's much bigger than GDP. We, in fact, people, have a phenomenon in the economy that is known as the "waterhead". It's when the hull, when the body is extremely small, weak, weak, and the head is huge. That hull can't hold that head. We've got it now. (Alexander Martinovic: It is called hydrocephalus. ) No, it's not, colleague Martinovic, it's not. You're from a medical point of view, this is from an economic aspect, and it's inevitable that such a single hull called the Serbian economy will not be able to withstand this blowing balloon. He's not gonna make it. You can talk as much as you want to be brave, that you won't listen to IMF recommendations, that even the IMF gives in. However, there must be a moment of sobering. Our economy is very weak, and we literally use this surplus to divide into personal consumption, not to raise the economy, not to raise investments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62141	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The title above the members and article 65 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62142	I was just on my way to see my colleague Mircic for some consultations, but I'll be right to say that in a large number of units of local self-government, since it's by law in that he can't, and he doesn't have to, no external audits were hired, especially for the final accounts of these units of local self-government. I remember when I was a councilman in two convocations in the town of Kragujevac, always since then, the city has received a memo that it can, and it doesn't have to engage such an external audit. That's a really big problem, and now I'm going to take this opportunity, because this title and article 65 still refer to the register of now auditors and auditors' houses, let me ask you, Mr. Minister, since large transfers go to the budget of the town of Kragujevac, are you familiar with the current debt situation? Total debt, therefore, on the basis of the commitments made by public enterprises. How is it possible that a city where there is speculation in committee circles that is more than 100m euros in debt gets the consent to take a new 10m-euro loan for completely unnecessary things, for the old ones who are at the beginning very expensive compared to what their market value is? These are views that cost a great deal, at bus stations and everything else that we're going to get into the situation of such a big city, and we see that that's not the case in Novi Sad, even though we're there the opposition, or in Belgrade, where we are, but we're also involved in some municipalities, in the town of Nis where we're part of the coalition government, where there's still something going on and it's going on and they're being put on their feet, as it's said, again, all these public enterprises that have come from the inherited debts of these yellow ones have come into the situation that they've been completely collapsed. We in Kragujevac absolutely don't see anything. Even so, it is said in urban circles, but you already know it best, and it would be so verifiable if such an external audit came, if the mayor himself had repeatedly asked Serbian President Alexander Vukic to help the city with millions of monetary amounts, but there is nowhere to be seen, even on the contrary, the city is in ever greater trouble with infrastructure and functioning itself and it would be the last moment, regardless of what is certainly waiting for him to end this term at the mayor's place, because there is a strong resistance among your SNS committees to his rule, that someone will tell us what's going on there. Are you invited, that's the question for you, as finance minister, as a man of the profession and as someone who really needs to take care of every spent dinar that, in the end, you visit on any basis of Kragujevac or get acquainted with the current financial situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62143	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment is Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the member and article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our search of amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Depositary Security You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Marijan Rističević, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Aleksandra Belačić, Aleksandar Seselj, Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric, Milorad Mirčić, Filip Stojanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Petar Jojic, Zoran Despotović, Vesna Nikolic Vulajlović, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Miljan Damjanović and Nemanja Sarović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62144	In Article 1, you said that in this basic Deposit Insurance Act, after the words "bank liquidations" were added to the words "bank restructuring". We have proposed here an amendment to delete this, to, above all, open a topic that has not been closed for almost 20 years, since 2000, by Mladjen Dinkic, from the National Savings Bank, from the time Djindjic invested his alleged dinar. They talk, later he said he thought he was paying into the National Savings Bank, and as he realized that Dinkic had deceived him, that it was a completely private bank from the time the Social Accounting Service was abolished, when Serbian banks were destroyed to bring these diverse banks into Serbia that became greeners, officially protected by law. Credits were taken in Serbia under the most unfavourable conditions in Europe. The banks that are somehow called here have such names in their home countries, but of course, the way they operate there and here is so different that there's not really a single point of touch. The consequences of this are immeasurable and today they last and today they are a very painful point of this society and this system, the consequences of the destruction of Serbian banks and the bringing of these foreign banks are also these evils committed by public perpetrators, who, because of one, two or three unpaid payments, leave people without a roof over their heads, take houses, apartments, cars, mobile property. These banks that are now on stage, let me say, in Serbia are such a bad partner to everyone and to a company and to a physical person. Now, first of all, I'm talking about natural persons, businesses that do well can meet their financial needs and some loans that are really abroad, etc. And they can certainly do better, but people take credit because they can't buy children books, school equipment, they take loans because they can't be treated, they take loans because they don't have 50 euros to buy meters of wood, and they need a dozen meters. So there's a lot of reasons, it's a lot of trouble, actually, that people make to take loans. There are few people in Serbia who take loans out of obstetrics. Anyway, more than 90% of people take loans to sort of organize life and make it normal, to themselves and to the family. What's going on? You can't pay credit for this or that reason, most often because a family member gets fired or, God forbid, someone in the family dies, gets sick and then accesses what I said is the most painful point, and these are public executioners. By the way, the SRS has submitted to this National Assembly a proposal for a new Law on Executive Procedure and Security, and with this proposal we have submitted more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens who have supported this initiative to abolish such public executions. But we're not talking about public executioners right now, we're talking about banks, or deposit insurance. I have one material here that says it's top secret, and I'm only going to read some things that can be handled in public. It is a report on the "Belgrade Bank's" business view of Belgrade's "Belgrade Bank" branches, Belgrade. So, "Beobank," and today her liquidation procedure is not over. The Beobank could still go back to normal life today and start doing business with the population, with the economy, etc., but you still have no interest because you and in this segment, as well as in many segments, have listened to EU directives, and thus have become legal followers of that previous regime that you allegedly argue with in public, you resent this or that, they resent you this or that, and you are essentially the same, in those key things about everyday people's lives, you are the same. We have here in this report, let's say, data, on the day the Beobank data came up, it was June 13, 2000. Basic data on the branch, about the Beobans. The branch is operating in over 11 business units, six of which are outside Belgrade and four organisational units. The number of workers employed on 30 April 2000 is 4.335, out of which 1,879 workers were employed in the company unit of Štadinica. The subsidiary owns 111 facilities of 35.211,66 square meters, uses 77 facilities in the rent area of 19.061,60 meters square. There are two buildings in construction, a total area of 54,000 square meters. The total number of shareholders on 31.12.1999 was 4,609, whose action capital amounted to 1,454,5 million dinars. The permanent investment of branches in banks and businesses on 31.12.1999 amounts to 161.9 million dinars. Now I ask you, do you regret that the regime at the time, which the destruction of October 5th destroyed such a thing? They didn't destroy it to the end, and you didn't do anything to bring this back to life. There is a condition for resuscitation, but there is no, I repeat, no interest. We all remember when Serbian banks were destroyed that the media then sided with the regime, as they do today, and then when the media conveyed one story in their own way, then all the regime media transmitted it, then people just started to believe it. Winter was when the bank strike started. In the banks and then and now, the most women worked. They were strikers, protesting women who had maybe 20, 30 years of work experience, winter were dressed in pumpkins, which at the time was no problem at the time, minors had no wife who had no coat, it wasn't any prestige, it was simply another way of life, and then to make people sick, so that people would be disgusted by the strikers then all the newspapers wrote the pumpkin strike, protesting the pumpkins, so they wouldn't see that Mladjan Dinkic entered the People's Bank with automatic weapons. It was the beginning of the Serbian banking sunfire, but we really don't see any reason why you don't have the will and desire to return to Serbia Serbian banking. The conditions, therefore, are already in these existing banks, not to mention new development banks, etc. You say it well in the media, you talk well in some campaigns, and when you have to do something in life, then you're gone. We don't have a bank in Serbia today that's ready... The only other "Postal Savings" is the state-owned, Serbian bank. Everything else is private banks. You don't have a bank that's willing to share the risk of a contract with a client with whom the contract is concluded. They say if you want to do this, if you don't want to give a shit, and you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you- Why? To bring our capital abroad to their countries of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62145	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Professor Miladin Ševarlic called. You want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62146	Not according to this amendment, but not at all. My five minutes. Thank you. I hope we agreed in the morning work after handing over this document, Mr. Minister, that farmers were robbed in the period from 2013 to 2017 for nearly 60 billion dinars. It was signed by the Minister of Agriculture. But I think that's a lot more, and we're going to figure that out based on the final accounts, because there are a few grounds for robbing farmers. One is that you plan the agrarian budget below 5%, the other is that you don't realize that the reduced agrarian budget, but you make it even less real, and then you report the surplus, and we'll see that now that we compare it to the data from the final accounts. If we've absorbed it, I'd like you to answer the questions you've remained in debt. One question was whether the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded a contract to take over migrants who do not meet the conditions for staying in EU countries, specifically in Austria, or whether the current Austrian government minister is lying in a statement on television. Secondly, I asked you how many of the governments of the Republic of Serbia have received organizations that the Trustee of Equality calls lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders? That's what I'm asking you for, Mr. Minister, because today it's said that those wearing a folk costume are genetically modified. I ask you are genetically modified and the participants of this parade that both the Prime Minister and several ministers are on, and is this subject to the initiation of proceedings by the competent state authorities? Also, it's last year's Dita von, I don't know what it's called, you can find it in the press. That's past this poster now. Imagine that instead of a Serbian patriarch and a bishop, two cardinals or two rabbis were put here, let's say, would the competent state authorities then react? Why is there no condemnation of such behaviour by the Prime Minister and the Ministers who participated in the meeting? Also, why are children, underage children whose cheeks are stained with rainbows? After all, color lengths were the logo of the International Association until it was taken over by this organiser. Also, Mr. Minister, in 2014, you were the mayor, here's a photograph, the date of September 18, 2014 when as mayor you laid a wreath on the monument of the Serb and Russian heroes in Calemegdan, who participated in Belgrade's defence during World War I. Today, Russian soldiers, or volunteers, were not involved. Here's what this monument looks like today. It's a vandal act without the sculpture of St. George the Winner. Why does the Republic of Serbia allow that? Why doesn't he make a replica? Why don't you get that monument working, but it looks like they've been shot again? Please also tell me how much employees' salaries remain in "Belgrade Bank", and what was the earlier talk about? Is it accurate that they are over 200 and 300,000 dinars? How can banks with greater claims be liquidated than their obligations? You can also tell me – what about the assets of the Belgrade Railway Association, which is the oldest railway credit union and whose assets were not sold out until today, since I was honored not to take care of cooperatives? Let's start with that, after all, I wrote in a survey of agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia how much agricultural land was robbed, over 400,000, and not 180,000, as it is said here, although the speaker has fenced that it refers only to cooperatives in the Vojvodina area. I'd like to finally ask you to explain to me why the toll for a newly built highway is 100 kilometers from Obrenovac to Preljina 420 dinars, while the toll for a journey that is longer than Novi Sad to Sudotica is lower? Why are the tolls in the euro at the highest rate, not the middle course, lower than the tolls in the dinars? Who do we protect from strangers or our citizens? Can we pay tolls in euros? Finally, please explain to me, since we have been having chaos on the Belgrade streets for days with taxi drivers... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Why doesn't one of the state authorities react to that and invite those people to talk? In particular, can MPs, when they leave here, from the Assembly, use their cars to help on the road through CarGo apps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62147	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62148	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we have repeatedly talked about that the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Finance cannot at all protect Serbian citizens from the haughtiness and facelessness of these foreign banks, which, under extremely favourable conditions, operate in Serbia and have shown this in practice. We just had a discussion in detail about the Accounting Act. It seems to me to be a member of the 28th. The accounting law says no financial accounting document can be ambiguous. Right? If so, how is it possible that banks in Serbia who get permission to work from the National Bank of Serbia can cheat on citizens and charge various fees, not just to rob citizens, and businesses, at the end of the day and the state, and these fees are for citizens, there are 260, so individuals and citizens don't usually know at the end of the day what's going on? You can't expect every man, although there were various discussions, round tables, one of the renowned accountants in Serbia, Mr. Tasic tried to explain it, you can't expect from a man who comes from any environment, in the end it doesn't matter, a man can be another title, an education, absolutely not understands the finances, that every tiny letter looks at and every pinnacle, and the law doesn't protect him. In fact, we have a law in Serbia that could protect all citizens from bank fraud and robbery, it's the Law on bond relations. But as long as it brings us or the law under which some Serbian citizen will sue the bank for illegally charging him with a commission that was not clearly defined in the contract. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that a few years ago the NBS remembered, so the governor made a recommendation to the banks to charge a loan-processing fee of 0.5 to 3% is now absolutely in all banks. Some of the actions say, you see on those commercials, but that's short-term breath -- no processing costs, and then the NBS said -- get it in line for the citizens and make it a fixed fee. No, they don't care at all. It's just that no law ultimately obliges them to do so. What did they say about the association? We'll do business the way it regulates the market, so who wants to go to which banks? And then again, I say, you have these short-term actions. Who, please, will sanction them for such behavior? That they're reviving interest in the middle of paying off a loan, that the tightening interest is calculated not in the way that it's agreed and before the maturity of the payment deadline for that loan? Well, that's amazing. You have the experience of Prime Minister Orban and neighboring Hungary. As early as 2014, when it was seen that the banks that were operating there had deceived the citizens in terms of loans in Switzerland, they had completely changed their legal regulations for the business of banks and they could no longer rob them in such a way. Secondly, look how it was resolved in Russia, where Vladimir Putin said in the first years of his rule, but last and last year, those regulations were changed, to protect every citizen of Russia, that no citizen there can cheat through a currency clause that will benefit banks and not citizens. What kind of way is that? You take the money in that currency, so in the domestic currency, and then the bank asks you through that currency clause, so it can be even, here's the credit in Swiss, up to 60% more than the value of that loan. So, listen to us, go on to change the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, make binding recommendations and ask for it and, above all, for you, who are also on the NBS Finance Committee to make such binding recommendations, because they are depositaries in this country and there they have been given a solution to start their business and permission that all banks have to comply in normal frameworks of their business, as I said, resolved in Hungary which is an EU member, which Serbia will never enter, but they know that they have to protect themselves and protect their citizens, for example in Russia or China, where it would also be unimaginable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62149	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Now the word has in order Veroljub Arsic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it turns out that the National Bank is a miracle worker and that it can work beyond the laws that we bring here in the National Assembly. First, the National Bank controls the operations of banks and insurance companies. For violations of the law, which are material violations of the law, it can file criminal charges or initiate proceedings to punish the bank, where it decides in the first degree as a court of offense. I'll talk later in my presentation about what it looks like when the National Bank doesn't perform its function. It seems to me that these populist stories are always very interesting and good to apologize here and thus gain some political point. I have absolutely nothing against it. They make recommendations that don't exist. You can't make a bank that's private if it's not regulated by law or you can force it to treat its clients differently. We passed the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. In a period of 2014 and 2015, Malta has reduced the possibility of misuse of contracts indexed in foreign currencies. So you have to pay off the loan and the middle rate of the central bank, go back to the middle rate of the central bank, that you can't change the interest rates during the loan payment, that you have a fixed portion of the interest, that you have a variable part of the interest. The variable part of interest does not depend on the will of a bank or the will of a client, so it often does not depend on the will of a state. These are all conditions that are classically marketable. I agree in one part with my colleague Jovanovic. The currency clause is something where banks made extra profits and that it was the generator of many of our troubles not only among the population, among the economy, but also throughout the country. Now we have a situation that the course of the dinar is very stable. As for that claim that banks can abuse something. It is obvious when the state takes care of its citizens and the National Bank takes care of its citizens, both the economy and the state in general that such manipulations can no longer be. We can come and talk about what if the exchange clause is lifted. Credits placed in the Republic of Serbia with a currency clause are tied to the euro in 90 and a few percent of cases, if not 100%. In order to withdraw credit in euro or euro currency clauses shall be applied when calculating the interest that is agreed with the beneficiary of the loan, inter alia, and the reference rate of the European Central Bank, which is currently at present, seems to me to be minus 0.25%. Now, our reference interest rate is somewhere around 3%, it's on dinar loans. So, if we abolished the currency clause, all the loans in Serbia would have been raised by 3%. What's left? It remains that the National Bank gradually reduces the reference interest rate, I can say that it has been reduced in the last six or seven years by 12 or 13 percentage points, or 12, 13%, and the European Central Bank, when it estimates that the euro area crisis is over, will start raising the reference interest rate and when the two interest rates are equal, then we can also lift the credits that are indexed in euro. Otherwise, if we completely shut them down, we'll allow the banks to earn another 3% more than they're doing right now. So much for how it's not just easy -- we want it, we want it, so we're going to do it, and we're not going to look at the other side that's going to have consequences for citizens and businesses, if we do it without one serious analysis. That's the part about politics. What is still there and what shows the true importance of the National Bank is that, among other things, in 2012 and 2013, our two banks lost their work permit. It was Agrobanka and the Vojvodine Development Bank, where there was absolutely no control over the two banks by the National Bank of Serbia, when the governor was Mr. Soskovic, and the vice governor who was in charge of bank operations was Mr. Milojko Arsic. It's the one who keeps singing and pretending to be smart on various shows, how the Government of the Republic of Serbia's programme isn't right, how our finances aren't good, how we owe ourselves excessively, etc. Now, such a man controlled the work of banks, so we had that hyperinflation, so we had the illegal export of foreign currency from the Republic of Serbia, so we had primary emissions, the right to print money on the market, that's what Professor Danica Popovic advocates. That's how they solve the crisis by printing money. On top of that, a billion euros in direct damage that had to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget because the Republic of Serbia guarantees deposits of up to 50,000 euros that they will be compensated, for everyone, for a natural person, etc. When we talk about the National Bank, we need to be aware that the National Bank is overseeing the legality of the work of financial institutions, for that very reason, that banks, especially where the founder is not resident, or that I should say domestic faces, can bring money out of the Republic of Serbia, rob both the economy and the population, leave this problem to us to solve, and they record extraprofits. That's the job of the National Bank. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is either our job when we pass laws or it's court's business, if someone thinks the bank has committed some kind of injustice to some credit user or some other financial service. Once again, I would ask my fellow MPs to take care that when they have their own plan and programme, it was political or any other, not to apply it lightly, but to measure it well, to know where to cut it, because these as they cut us by 2012, barely the state came out of the crisis, barely the population was ripped out of the crisis, and we barely kept the state as we wanted to have.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62151	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62152	It is quite clear that, as far as the state's guarantee of the funds deposited on behalf of the savings, anyone who decides on such a move makes a smart move if in more banks they schedule to this guaranteed 50,000-euro figure. But the main problem is what we from the SRS started the story. The story is based on the fact that domestic banks were literally destroyed overnight by the arrival of the so-called so-called "domestic" bank. A bulldozer of the revolution and those declared by the EU as reformers or reformers. It is simple to deny that the bankruptcy fund of banks that have been liquidated is much higher than the capital of certain banks coming from abroad to operate here on Serbia's market. For example, a colleague of Radeta, Beobanka, also cited the example. It has a real potential much greater than many banks that have come to this market. But what is the philosophy of every rational household policy? The economy cannot develop with foreign banks, the domestic economy cannot. It can't, simply, exist theoretically, and especially in practice proven that it is possible. It is possible that as many of these foreign banks, or those who stand behind these banks, allow, and we have developed the whole theory here, with the help of others, these are domestic banks, these are banks whose headquarters is abroad, otherwise domestic banks, we will, with the help of them, develop an economy. It's just impossible, people. We need to get out of that asylum, realize that business logic and policy requires, if you have your product, if you place that product on a market, then it's better to be followed by your business bank, or your home bank. It's the logic of things. Why would someone take a commission or someone live on behalf of a commission because of the payments and collection of your goods? Look what the Russians did. When Gazprom came, they immediately brought their own bank. They place their product, charge their product via their business bank. It's the logic of things. We have here banks whose main basis is the existence and business, thanks to the generally known fact that in the name of the funds that come into Serbia, by paying off those who are abroad and working, these are signs, they merge annually four billion, plus savings, etc., so our money, our capital, and foreign banks manage it. And it needs to stop, just to put an end to it. Satisfaction with being a post office, that's not enough. If we plan to develop our economy, if we plan for this economy to benefit from it, then domestic banks, not foreign banks, will benefit fully. So don't explain something that's out of logic. Well, if that were so good, the Americans would first, and these Western European countries would give up their banks, develop other people's banks. So you see how much the Bundesbank has caused, how much it has shaken all of Germany. Germany is on its feet because of everything that happens in the Bundesbank, or Deutsche, or whatever it's called. You have to make sure that this story about foreign banks, which are essentially domestic, which are more and more forgotten, take a monopoly on the market, that story, which would be people's, doesn't drink water.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62153	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62154	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of Article 3 of the existing Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. I asked the amendment to add the text "adopted" after the text "measures". I believe that my amendment regulates the text of the proposed law in a better and more precise way. All regulations must be clear and precise and amendments submitted by the SRS exclusively aim at improving the text of the law. We heard from the minister that things with public finances are getting better and I want to believe they are. As for the credit rating, which the minister was talking about, the real situation isn't exactly what it's showing us. Since 2009, when the global economic crisis took place, there has been a reduction in investment, which entails a reduction in interest. Now the question is how much is the repair of our credit rating a real consequence of our public finances or is it perhaps due to the excess of the free funds to be placed? You know, it's your market, where there's a law of supply and demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62155	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62156	Thank you, Chairman. On the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 4. Article 4 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 6 of the Basic Act, which concerns the Deposit Insurance Fund. We have suggested erasing this member, because we believe that the solution contained in the law that is currently in force should not be changed. We are opposed to the use of funds from the Deposit Insurance Fund to finance investments from the Investment Insurance Agency in fixed assets and immaterial assets for the realisation of transactions relating to the insurance of deposits at the full amount of fixed investments. We are also against the fact that the Agency's director sets out criteria for the allocation of these investments. Our opinion is that the Fund's resources should be used for the purposes for which they have been used so far, which are taxed in Article 6. The deposit insurance law, as the proposer states, is the basic objectives of the deposit insurance system, the protection of deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized legal persons in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, as well as contributions to the preservation of the stability of the financial system. The changes that are now proposed are not in line with those objectives, nor would they have a positive impact on strengthening public confidence in the banking sector, on preventing and easing the effects of crisis situations on the level of the individual bank, but also on the banking system and on the contribution of savings growth in the banking system. These are the reasons that the proposer should consider and reflect once more on the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62157	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62158	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard that counterpart Tomislav Ljubenovic proposes to delete Article 4, as well as the explanation he gave. For the sake of the public, Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act is complemented by Article 6 of the Law, which defines the resources and purposes of the Fund. In order to ensure the sustainability of the financing of the Deposit Insurance Agency, as well as its independence in functioning, it is necessary to allow covering operational costs and investment costs in fixed assets. Therefore, the legal solution defines that the funds of the Deposit Insurance Agency can also be used to cover operational costs and investment costs in fixed assets, so I believe that without Article 4 whose erasure is proposed, simply, this law would not be complete. The main reason for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act is the protection of deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized legal persons and the contribution to the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, and all without Article 4 whose erasure is proposed would not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62159	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62160	We have submitted to this article and to other members of several amendments, but I will speak of this final attitude when I speak of the last amendment. This member speaks of that the National Bank may, in part or in whole, postpone the payment of the extraordinary premium of individual banks and you said that it could be for a period of three months if the payment of the extraordinary premium would endanger liquidity or the insolvency of the bank. This decision shall be taken by the National Bank at the request of the Bank for a period of no more than six months, with the possibility of resuscitating the request. So, we think that this three-month period should be extended to six months, and this one vice versa, but that's what counterpart Natasa Jovanovic will talk about. With this whole law, you are again somehow subserving the National Bank in some way to these business banks, and in fact it is the relationship between the National Bank and the Governor of the National Bank, who in no previous dispute or misunderstanding between citizens and business banks has never sided with citizens, has always protected business banks and has never implemented certain congregation decisions, and even when it comes to these loans in the Swiss francs, it has always protected these foreign banks, because it counts that these foreign banks or those officials and owners of these banks will one day provide a good place in some place in the World Bank, the European Bank, etc. Unfortunately, as much as you and the governor of the National Bank represent the public how the National Bank works like a Swiss watch, it just isn't. It can all make up and it looks that way, but I repeat, I don't know what you're smiling about, but believe me, I'm right, ask your neighbors, friends, relatives, you might not be taking credits, so you don't know what it's like to deal with these banks in Serbia. You may not be in a position to be in charge of the allowed one, or don't give God an unauthorized minus, credit cards, that don't work anywhere in the world like we do. You know, someone who once opens a credit card and spends some money for trouble, can't get out of that debt for the rest of his life, because the interest on these banking services is such that it's simply not possible to serve it and it's not possible to follow it to the end. We're repeating that a small number of people are in debt, taking that illegal minus, these credit cards, classic credits, etc., a small number of people did it because, well, they wanted him to have a credit card. We repeat, this is what we are telling you and when we talk about these bill proposals that we have finished yesterday and today, we speak and remind you how hard it is for Serbia to live and what pains it makes people take loans and then banks can do whatever they want, and they know that they have the support of the National Bank and the current governor, as well as the previous and the previous ones and the previous ones, even the one chosen by the vote from Thessaloniki, we haven't forgotten it to some, not to you, it's a debt to another former regime. So, we just want to draw attention that, in fact, this law was not supposed to be passed like this. You take, so change five, six members, a dozen members of some serious law, comply with some directives. And those who give you directives in their countries of this bank do business in a different way. Their citizens have no problems with banks that Serbian citizens have with banks here. But, you, we've been telling you this for days now, you have no ear for the problems the people in Serbia have, and that is the fundamental problem of the current government. You don't see wood forest. You're talking, we're telling you again, about highways, about corridors, about facades, and we're all saying -- yeah, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's how the state should develop. But that's what you've been doing for seven years. It's high time you started taking care of whoever might want to drive that corridor, but there's no money for a bus ticket, and there's no way to buy a car, not even to use these unfavourable bank loans, because he can't repay loans if he works for a minimumer of 30,022 dinars, and the consumer basket is a minimum of 37,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62161	The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62162	Thank you, Chairman. The previous speaker keeps telling us how we can take credit cards today, put ourselves in charge. The basic condition for borrowing, for taking credit cards from banks, is, in fact, that we're in a working relationship. It's a basic and first criterion. It's actually telling us that people are doing this to us today. So, from 2000, from 2003 to 2007, a huge number of people were fired and then no one could take it or think to take any credit card or credit card or anything. Unfortunately, I was in a situation like this and my parents, I didn't have a current bank account, neither I, nor my parents, nor could we take any credit. And today the themes in Serbia have changed. We are today saying whether we can raise favourable loans or less favourable loans, because we meet the basic criteria, therefore, in a working relationship. When it comes specifically to this member, I do not agree that a member should be deleted for reasons because it is the job of the National Bank to protect the business banks, to protect the liquidity and insolvency of all business banks. So, the People's Bank takes care of all the business banks in the system. Although it is believed that an emergency premium will endanger the liquidity and insolvency of other banks in the banking system. The National Bank's task is to protect every business bank, because all of us economists know that in the banking system there is a domino effect – if one bank fails, it drags all banks with it, and we don't want it to happen. We do not want the practice that took place in the 1990s and the collapse of the banking system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62163	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62164	I'm just asking you to count my time from an authorised representative over two minutes. So, Mr. Minister, we, not to be so critical, we can say that in this article 7 and at all in the initial concept of amending this law, it's a good thing that you decided to obligate the banks of those who risk their business in Serbia, that their basis for calculating the premium is higher and that they also have to pay for that secured deposit of 50,000 dinars, which is a guarantee to each of them that they will gain if they fail or fail. However, we are now at the end of 2019 and it would be good to sum up all the results and see how this banking sector is further focused on the future and yet, even though counterpart Arsic, who is in the chair again, cannot replicate, that the National Bank of Serbia can't do anything, that is, and that we can't force them to do anything. That's just not true. Here, this measure right here, which is now foreseen is good. So, you say - you have to pay. And here, we've even improved this article seven. You have seen that our reaction is only in attitude 6, that the decision of the 5th member that they can postpone their payment for up to six months, we have now given it that they can only use it for up to three months, if it is their liquidity and insolvency, with the possibility of resuscitating that request. If they tell the citizens of Serbia well – well, we are doing business on the market, so please, come if you like our terms, our interest, then the state must really be more restrictive measures that you, as finance minister, should initiate to comb through their business. The question for all of you, you live in different cities of Serbia, just like me, where were those banks, why did some of the first banks leave the market? Have you asked yourself? Because they have nothing to take from these very citizens anymore. They finished their job, they simply stopped doing business here under conditions Dinkic gave them years ago. As they charged such high interest rates, various costs, and the banks were first eliminated – "Marfin Bank", "Alpha Bank", which, after the "MK Group", Kostic took over, and others, I can't remember their names anymore. Everything like that will go, you will see, cyclically, until the moment only those remain, and the state must force them to do business for their own benefit, of course, to do business, but not to such damage to Serbian citizens. Do you think the judges are then abnormal when they rule in favour of the citizens, and tens of thousands of such disputes across Serbia that banks illegally charged interest on interest? The SRS parliamentary group, then Arsic was a Serbian radical, then asked for authentic interpretation, even during that mafia government, to be told... Perhaps even it was Arsic's parliamentary question, and perhaps mine, too, I can't remember correctly, remember, colleague Arsic, to tell us on what basis is such interest charged on interest? Is that what happened? Cumulative, so you get to hold your head. We didn't say it couldn't, but it could only be charged in accordance with the Law on Liabilities that are in force. The bonding law says nicely that the tightening interest cannot be higher than the annual econtamination rate of the National Bank of Serbia. Who is it now that can interpret this state and the National Bank of Serbia to violate and rob citizens. So, Mr. Minister, how did you raise this premium base for those who risk their business slowly to be eliminated from our market? Think about it. You are a man whose profession it is, and you understand it, and you have done much better in their business, and you have come to know more than many MPs, to pass such laws that will and how to tighten the belt around them, and not those who remain here to rob the citizens further.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62165	The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62166	The bill clearly states that in the event of some changes in the business of banks, it is the state that will guarantee through the National Bank the damage caused by a certain limit of 50,000 euros, repeatedly mentioned here. The core story has been going on in Serbia since 2000, with many banks being shut down for a small founding role, and some of us, by transformation, have grown into much larger banks as some declare it according to their criteria. Let's just remember Delta Bank. Reminders for the sake of this, Delta Bank is a private bank created on capital, as you once said Mr. Miskovic, and now only Miskovic. He's a man who's been close to ruling furniture since the 1990s. He founded this bank for the most part of the guarantee for the functioning of the bank, it wasn't his property or his traffic in a private company, it was deposited funds from many public enterprises, such as Elektroprivreda, Serbiasume, etc., where the daily inflow was at the height that you can't even imagine that there is a bank today on the level of half a year inflow. Based on that inflow, he placed that money. He created Delta Bank. This Delta bank was later sold to foreign capital and now it's the Inteza Bank. What's the point? The bottom line is the following, both Delta Bank and successor, conditionally said, Inteza Bank as well as many banks in Serbia that function, you will not see that they finance in a larger amount of funds some idea or some initiative to open a small one, for something which is a little larger in terms of economy. They don't come to their senses, they finance personal consumption, when it comes to personal credit, but that's why they're asking for a big guarantee, a super guarantee, as they would say in the world, so they're asking for a guarantee of personal property, i.e. mortgage 1:3. It used to be a lot more. In order to get one euro, you had to use your personal property at the level of three euros to pawn it, to guarantee it, and when it comes to some problems, these banks use in a magical way something that is not in accordance with the law, which is that it is a much greater charge of damage than it is provided for in the contract as a guarantee, and these are perpetrators, etc. The entire system of functioning of these banks is based on speculations, speculations of the worst kind. It's high interest, it's a big mortgage. When they see that there is no more perspective in this area, then they see these mortgages being released, selling these mortgages, slowly shutting down. You have now the most pressing problem about a French bank, not to mention for advertising, that French bank has come into trouble, wants to leave this area because it has brought enough capital out of Serbia. Now he's in big trouble, he's got the damage that's been caused, or that would have been caused by shutting down that bank, to make up for it. Even French state officials joined in agreeing with Serbian representatives how to do it in the most painless way. It's a crucial story for you. The story ends in a way that when all the banks see that they don't have that much profit anymore, they're going to pull out of this area, they're going to leave a wasteland. It's literally going to be mortgages in apartments, it's going to be in real estate, it's going to be a wake-up call for why you sell, because banking logic is saying – it's better to earn a dinar, lose three, than to lose nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62167	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really surprised there's no minister's reaction here. We tried as an SRS parliamentary group first of all to point to a completely different view and what the National Bank should do and what you should do as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the regulation of the banking sector. On the one hand, you practically advocate this liberal capitalism in its worst form. You think it's very good that Serbia is ruled by foreign banks and one of the first tasks of the DOS regime and Mladjan Dinkic, it was in the first government in which, you say, as an expert, Minister Sinisa Mali participated, one of the first tasks was to liquidate Serbian banks. It was done overnight, it was done for no economically justified reasons, but it was a mission from the West so they could do it that way, because they're doing everything planically, so that they can go on uninterrupted and with complete control to destroy the sprawl economy. You know very well that the claims that the four largest Serbian banks had were far greater than the debts they had. Then why was it necessary to destroy these banks? It is precisely because foreign banks would enter, because in that orderly system when people have been with certain banks for years as depositors, where they had open current accounts, it would be very difficult for these foreign banks to convince Serbian citizens to cross over to them. They, of course, found a shortcut through those they brought to power. They ordered the banks shut down and then bees to take their skin off the backs of Serbian citizens. It's something that's been going on for years and we've heard from one of the previous debates in the ruling regime that citizens seven, eight, nine or ten years ago couldn't even open their accounts, they couldn't even raise their loans. Well, it won't be like that. They could and because of that and exist and there was a huge problem with these loans that were raised in Swiss francs. The fact is that what you pointed out in some previous debates, you have now completely changed the record, that some civil servants have stimulated citizens, that they have said that this is the best possible solution, how loans should be taken, that they are extremely favourable, extremely safe. People believed, bought cars and apartments and many other things on credit, and then unfortunately ran out of money, lost and without those things they took on credit. So the loans in the Swiss francs were, of course, cheap precisely because of this risk that existed that there could be a sudden change, a sudden leap in currency value. Unfortunately, a large number of Serbian citizens paid for it both with their lives and broken families and broken marriages in different ways. Our country didn't react properly. The fact that you are now boasting that you have found a solution and that the state, I don't know how many million euros, pays that the citizens of Serbia can finally get out of these loans, is not good in our opinion. This burden that you as a state have taken over, that is, you will now collect it from the budget and through the pockets of all Serbian citizens, a burden that must have been charged by foreign banks. That's the point. They draw hundreds of millions of euros each year and they had to deal with it as a business risk, not citizens who raised loans directly or other citizens, or all of Serbia's citizens, when you are paying from the budget now. The question is, will you go to the end of the shut-down, or can you say in the shut-down, some of you will sell Serbian banks, now you are selling the Commercial Bank, and what can the good citizens of Serbia finally hope for when they are completely left to the mercy of foreign banks? Then they'll be able to do whatever they want. They'll also be able to raise the cost of monthly account maintenance, they'll be able to fully lift interest on the funds they're carrying. When you look at what those interest rates were a few years ago and how much the loan was then, compare those levels and see today how much the loans cost, and that the citizens who round up their foreign currency practically have nothing, because interest is something above zero percent. So that's so low, it's a question of whether it's worth keeping money in banks at all, and you can see they're not the same interest rates in Serbia and some other countries. So it's a place where the state has to react, it's a place where the NBS has to react, so, to limit the banks, to cut their costs, as they've been charging enormous credit costs for years, and you've then remembered and made, let me say, a great result and said -- here, we're going to limit it, so they're going to be able to only account for the actual costs of the loan. But the question arises – what about all the extra profits that foreign banks have taken and taken from Serbian citizens in the meantime? Now, there's nothing to do with it, so write failed, and that's the problem that the state of Serbia is not protecting its citizens enough. We want you to set yourself differently, to make banks, first of all, function as citizens and when you talk and have a dilemma about whether we need foreign banks or only need domestic banks, are needed both, but wherever you have the domination of foreign banks, you cannot expect them to take care of the interests of Serbian citizens. Foreign banks, which is completely normal and which should not be questioned at all, is a fundamental interest in profit, profit at all costs. Be assured that they will always function as they get orders from the countries they come from, because in all serious states, both the state and their largest banks are connected. So these foreign banks are both a means of political pressure and monetary and each other's kind. Don't be naive and think that behind these banks is someone well-intentioned and will, for example, be. The German bank or the French or any other bit more loving the citizens of Serbia than the citizens of their own countries or that they will treat each other in the same way, because they will never. So we have to have our own banks. You spoke earlier about the establishment and development banks and agrarian banks and you promised a lot of things in the campaign, that you would stop foreigners who would tear Serbian citizens' skins off their backs, but unfortunately, in the meantime, when you came to power, you forgot all that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62169	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62170	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act proposed an amendment to this article by the SRS parliamentary group. Article 11 proposed only implemented a technical amendment to Article 22 of the basic law, which is a logical follow-up to the amendments proposed to Article 5 because of the two new positions added to Article 8 of the basic law. The SRS parliamentary group proposed this amendment to Article 22 of the basic law in paragraph 1 in the part relating to the amount of the bank’s fine. Instead of the amount of fines so far ranging from 100,000 to 200,000 dinars, the amount proposed ranged from 50,000 to 5,000,000 dinars. Our opinion is that the proposed amount is more adequate, with horizons n that it is about legal persons who intercede with large funds. Since the applicant wrote that the differentiation of banks is in line with the estimated level of risk in business, in establishing and calculating deposit insurance premiums, fairer to banks, and that it can affect the mitigation of moral gambling and foster a reduction in the risk of business. We believe that for those banks that do not respect the law, more penalties should be provided for in disrespect. This means that the benefit of accepting this amendment would be great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62171	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62172	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Petar Jojic has proposed that Article 13 be deleted. I don't think Article 13. There's any way we can erase it. Why? Article 13 defines that the Deposit Insurance Agency undertakes to adopt a methodology for the calculation of the deposit guarantee premium within one year from the date of entry into force of this Act. The methodology is brought in that, in fact, a system could be applied to account for deposit insurance premiums based on the level of risk in bank operations. The Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board brings a methodology, but the National Bank of Serbia must first agree. Without the adoption of the methodology, this law would simply be impossible to adopt, or without Article 13, whose erasure is proposed, the law would be incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62173	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62174	This is probably the last amendment to this bill and we, I said it in the first part, we gave, let me say, alternative amendments. In one part we tried to correct this bill, and in the other part we proposed to delete all the members, so that's how it was proposed to delete this last member, because if we're for the fact that there's no law in the legal system as it is, then we have to erase that last position. Why do we even think this bill isn't good? We generally think that when you change the law, I will repeat again for who knows which time, according to EU orders, that it has nothing to do with something positive and the benefits of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We think this law should have been made completely different by concept. Banks were robbed, foreign banks robbed people in Serbia and that's a fact. And now that you've passed this Deposit Insurance Act, then you should've tightened at least now the criteria for these business banks, so if they want to do business in Serbia, let them do business, if they won't, thank you, goodbye, there's anyone who will. So these banks don't pay taxes in Serbia, they don't pay taxes on extra profits. You didn't see it coming here to bind them through this law. You had to be much more restrictive than these existing banks. You had to commit them to a larger deposit. When it comes to consumer loans, you boast, you didn't say it today, but generally, you in power boast that increased consumption in Serbia. Unfortunately, spending has been increased because the number of these cashes has increased, so-called. It's a cash loan. And that's a really big problem, because people simply had to raise those loans, spend them on buying textbooks and school supplies, buying heating, paying for the backlog of the info wars, or public-communal enterprises in other parts of Serbia, is important in Belgrade, for paying electricity, etc. So it's not any real increase in consumption, it's an increase in consumption that actually costs a lot of people, citizens, yes, fellow Arsic, what you frown on, citizens who were forced to take these loans. You had to take care of all this. I say again, it's been a long time, here, almost 20 years since they were destroyed, since Dinkic and Labus destroyed banks in Serbia. Although anyone from the previous regime should go to prison for anything, to be tried, to be convicted and to go to prison, it is Dinkic and Labus. You've completely forgotten that. You have completely forgotten these debts to these people, and they have also been in charge of the people that they must one day respond, that they must one day end up in prison, that Dinkic must wear that shirt with 001 in prison, which Vukic, when he was a Serbian radical in the National Assembly, showed him. That's gotta happen. Until that justice is resolved, we can talk fairy tales as much as we want, but you've had seven years to get in the track, to get rid of some tails, conditionally speaking, you've had to give up some negative things and phenomena, ways of functioning that you inherited from that previous regime. It's about time. You don't have time for that kind of experiment anymore, you don't. It's about time you started taking care of the people. Mr. Secretary Mali, my dear colleagues in power, this government doesn't care about the people. What you're boasting about is capital investments, is something that's good, but other than capital investments, except that they can look at the TV opening of highways, people would eat something, especially those who work for the 30 thousand dinars and 22 plus dinars. So, you're not that so-called yet. Minimal brought to profit level, he's still a social category. Let's not call it that. It is a social category as soon as it does not meet the conditions of the lowest consumer basket. It's the same case with the lowest pensions, and you're bragging about how you're gonna give the pensioners five thousand dinars, I don't know when, in a day or in a month, it doesn't matter. Now imagine the one who has ten thousand or 14 thousand pensions, when he gets five thousand dinars, he thinks the poor thing I'm going to do with five thousand, and until he turns around he's done nothing, and he spends that little church. The one who has a pension of 130 grand won't even notice that it's on him. So don't worry about what real life is in the state of Serbia. You must accept the fact that it is difficult to live in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-08-0.u62175	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and in the whole. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10:00.
