ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64227	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance for 2020, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Service's 2020 financial plan and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the Military Insurance Fund for 2020. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government and their associates are invited to attend. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. By written amendment, the Government withdrew members 1 and 8 and MPs Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic to Article 3(6), paragraph 7. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendments of the National MPs of Zoran Zivkovic to Article 8, with the correction of Milan Lapčević to Article 8 and Olena Papuga to Article 8. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The name of the First Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Jelena Žarić Kovacevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64228	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as you can see, Mr Arsic, we have a part of the opposition in Serbia that obviously takes very seriously work in parliament and those who boycott work, but of course do not boycott wages, and should sit here across from us, chasing the minister through the halls and filming him on the phone, which I would say, for one MP, under each level, but well, that depends on how anyone realizes doing this function and his work. Others cannot decide whether to come to parliament to discuss the budget, or not to come, then report to be on the speaker list and submit amendments, which do not come to defend, or represent. It turns out that the proposer of this amendment also has some short-term work to do rather than discuss in parliament the most important law for our citizens. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because it's about the objections to the budget of the man who was prime minister at the time of the Dossos government, he was also mayor of Nis, and we remember that he didn't take too much care of the Republic's budget or the Nis City budget. The question arises – what credibility does Zoran Zivkovic have to criticise the budget if the tax police have filed criminal charges against him on suspicion that he has silenced 18 million dinars as the responsible face of the company "Empresa d.o.o.", which is not recorded in business books. I'll remind you that at the time, he was a National MP. What kind of mayor Nis was I not even talking about? After all, like most of the heads of cities and municipalities that were later from the DS, they instead developed our city, the factories privatized and shut down, jobs abolished, quality projects hitched off. Let's remember that Zoran Zivkovic just as mayor of Nisa hitched a project to build the Selov dam near Kursumija, whose realisation of Nis would provide water. But, as we have already repeatedly concluded, the interest of the citizens was not very important to them. In 2012, we found the city of Nis's completely devastated budget, completely ruined institutions that were unable to raise Nis in both economic and economic terms and in any other sense. Today Nis is the centre of southeastern Serbia, with an airport that works, with a project of railway bypass around the city, which is awaiting realisation, with six new factories and many new jobs, with renovated schools and kindergartens, with local roads and highways connecting the city with countries in the region, with better social policy, with more tourist and cultural developments. We also expect a reconstruction in recent times of King Milan Square, which will make our city even more beautiful and attractive for tourists. Low Banja are finally open opportunities to offer everything he has. Of course, it is the result of the stable budget of the town of Nis, but also the result of co-operation with the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64229	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mali, I hope that today you will be much more in the mood for an argument today than you were during the previous days and I hope that you will finally show respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you are trying to offend those who address you from the opposition, in fact you can only disrespect the citizens of Serbia. I've asked you a lot of specific questions about the budget. I can understand if at that moment you may not have had enough data, but given that it has been three or four days since then, I expect concrete answers today. First and foremost, the question of all issues for this budget, why didn't you provide for the funds needed to make up for the pensioners in Serbia what you took away from them against the constitutional adoption of the Interim Retirement Law? First of all, the very name of the law shows that this is a fraud, because it can't be called a payout when someone is taken away from a part of what you owe him. In fact, instead of paying full pensions, you decided to reduce them and called it a temporary payment. I warned you last time that you were a pensioner who had 50,000 dinar pensions, so that's the budget from the PIO fund, that in 47 months you took away 282.888 dinars, and only based on direct reductions. The other two basics are the legal tightening interest on what you owe and the fact that you failed to bring pensions into line with the rise in prices to a small extent and GDP growth, which means that this amount is much higher. I asked you for precise information about how much you took away from those who had 20,000, how many of those who had 30,000 dinars of pension and what was also very important to announce for every fiscal year -- what was the total amount you saved, which was saved by the state, and who was kidnapped by pensioners, due to reduced pension payments? Please, Mr. Minister, most kindly, give the exact answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64231	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64232	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 329th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work, for which they receive their salary neatly. To make things worse, today when we are discussing amendments to the 2020 draft budget, they did not find it appropriate today to come, to offer their argument, if they have it at all, and thus show their attitude towards both the National Assembly and the proposal for the 2020 budget and towards the citizens of Serbia. Some of them, as far as I can see, have submitted amendments to the draft budget, some of them announced press conferences in the National Assembly Hall, but that's what we can expect from them. To get into the O.R., to stand up to arguments, to make their arguments, that's something we can't expect from them. What could they say? What could they possibly blame? What argument could they give in favour of the importance that the budget is not developmental, as they like to speak these days in their statements, at their conferences, that the budget is not developmental, that it's pre-election and something like that, when we know we're dealing with testified liars, and that's with liars, really, to say, fantastic species? So, we have the latest lie both Boška Obradovica and Marinika Jobana Tepic, as he is already named, so they tried the other day in their construction of day-to-day different affairs to fight with Russia, with the Russian Federation, and in their call, the argument showed an eighth of a document. Eight of the documents he allegedly had to prove some affair, sell weapons to the Ukrainians, etc. I say, they tried to fight us with the Russian Federation that way, and Alexander Vukic, as President of the Republic, at a press conference a few days ago, revealed the situation of their lies. So they hide two pages, choose one page to prove something, and hide the rest in which it is clearly seen that the ultimate buyer of that weapon is, therefore, Poland, Poland and that it has nothing to do with Ukraine or killing, that they like to do it in malignancy and so very pathetic to say, that we kill Russian children or I don't know what kind of nonsense they're saying. So, we're dealing with serious lies, people who are ready daily to invent the latest monstrous accusations and lies both about Alexander Vukic and all the officials of the Serbian and SNS government. In addition, two days ago, an interesting text was published in “Blica”. So, "Blic" is a newspaper that you can't say is regimeal or favored by the SNS or the Serbian government or something. The text came out, i.e. an interview by Jelena Anasonovic, one of the organizers of the protest "One of the Five Million" and she says in her confession she confirms and confirms everything we otherwise knew and talked about months ago, that these protests are not actually civil and are not non-political, but are very political, that they were created and organised by the Alliance for Serbia and Dragan Gilas. She says – where protests were organised by the close Alliance for Serbia in cities, it was often not welcome to speak from e.g. the local front, the Free Citizens' Movement or some third option. Furthermore, she says, on the question of journalists – as the attempt to take over the protest seemed, I met with Stefan, a certain Stefan, and Dragan Gilas, and I told them that it should be civil protests, without party markings, and that we need their support in terms of logistics and some kind of communication, so that there is no sabotage. Then the journalist asks the question - who financed the truck, the sound and stuff? She says -- as far as trucks and sounding were concerned, it was paid by the Alliance for Serbia, so, Dragan Gilas, although we were on our own for many necessary logistics things, etc., so she says -- when politicians started talking, we had a problem if they were outside the Alliance for Serbia. Why am I reading all this? Because from this, and there is much in this interview, you can clearly see what we from the SNS have been saying months ago, which is that these protests were politically and organised and created and designed by the Alliance for Serbia and Dragan Gilas. I'm saying this all in favor of having to deal with serious liars, people who are willing to make up new attempts at affairs, accusations, etc. every day. I'm glad the citizens had a chance to see the Alexander Vukic press conference where he'd disarmed their entire system of lies and fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64233	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64234	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a great honor for those who are in Parliament these days and who are discussing with us, regardless of the difference in attitudes. It's natural, different policies, different parties, different ideas, nothing is controversial. As counterpart Markovic said, you are receiving a salary, a nice salary in the Serbian Parliament, you are not coming to work, you are working against the country's interest, you are trying to argue with the region, with the whole world, wherever you can cause an affair from which you, as a tycoon political criminal option, will benefit from some benefit, and Serbian citizens only harm. In doing so, not a word of these people about Serbia's budget, about Serbia's finances, about new jobs, about some kind of programme that could offer Serbian citizens, about employment, about new jobs, how to keep young people, who talk so much about leaving Serbia, in Serbia. About that, of course, nothing. Only making up affairs from day to day, some false affairs that the president of Serbia demonstrates. Alexander Vukic and SNS are on the side of the truth and real arguments. So said Dragan Gilas, he dares to say that SNS officials, when it comes to finance, have only improved their personal finances. Here's to putting in the property card of all of us individually, and the President of the Republic, and the Ministers, and all of them, I don't see anyone improving their personal financial status. That's why we know that Dragan Gilas, during the Belgrade mayor's term of office and how he improved his property status, so he officially reported assets of 24m euros, so his companies, while he was leading the city of Belgrade to break into debt, into bankruptcy, trafficked 619m euros, so the gentleman bought villas in Senjak, Dedinj, bought expensive cars, and it was all measured at millions of euros in property value, and during that time he was receiving a salary of 100,000 dinars. I ask as a citizen, as a folk MP – how is it possible for someone to be mayor at the same time and manage private companies and that there is no conflict of interest, nothing immoral and abnormal for him? At that very time, while running the city of Belgrade, these companies traffic 619 million. At that very time, he of the 74,000 euros he dragged into Serbia, where he had never come to it, gained 24m euros that he reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency and would tell someone that he had no knowledge, that he had gained personal property benefit for himself. What asset benefit? It is because we have allowed citizens in Belgrade to record low unemployment, to be 7%, if I am not mistaken, whether so Ministers, employment in Belgrade is never lower today, that the debt that this same leniency left to the citizens of Belgrade, one billion and two hundred million, so we remember both you and I, what he was saying -- not a billion and 200 million, but it is God's 300-400 long because he didn't count, nor the debts of public enterprises, nor the debts towards pregnant women, maternity parents, mothers. As they said - Moms are the law, so you owe those moms 400 million dinars they had to pay back then, to find a way to bring back Belgrade Mayor Sinish Mali and all those people who ran the city of Belgrade. Why didn't you pay people off? Did you promise in 2008 to get 400 million? So, where are they? In the pocket of Dragan Gilas. Why didn't you give people that money? You put it in your pockets, so you put 619 million euros in your companies, and then you're giving us some sense. How many factories are open then? What did he do with the PKK? Everything that man touched, ruined, destroyed. He can't tell anyone about any numbers, but he can say that at the same time I was able to perform the mayor's office, to make that "watchel" town, which didn't even have a building permit, and it wasn't safe for the children to use it, so it had to be removed, so it all cost hundreds of millions of dinars, so the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, so Nemina was done several times, so Spanish trams, and water. Wherever we entered, went out and analyzed the situation in Belgrade, it was all destroyed, abandoned. It's just, you guys had to go from minus the fat one. The day that growth in the last quarter is over 4%, they say it's no good. So, they're doing a minus because the downside of the citizens is in their pocket, and they're fat plus. Minus 3.5% that was a great growth probably during the time of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Sutanovac, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and other hostaplers. Hetherland, development banks and everything else where loans were taken, which Serbian citizens had to return afterwards. Imagine they say -- today's interest rate borrowing of 1.5% is not good, but good borrowing is 7% - 8% at interest rate. So it's good to be a green man. We see this policy of the Alliance for Rape, or Alliance for Serbia, as they call themselves, a good rape. Raping Serbian citizens is great and that's acceptable. I have to ask again, as I asked last week -- why isn't the prosecution responding when it calls for rape, for murder, for five raps in the back? Why isn't he invited to that? It's their policy. They're behind it. We haven't heard a single digit. Here's this lunatic who wants to rape, he's gonna hold an 11 o'clock conference, and yet none of them are gonna say anything about the budget because there's no program. There is no idea how to build the future of Serbian citizens. There's no idea how to keep young people, who talk about them, who stand in front of the embassy every day, how to keep them in this country. You raise salaries to nurses, nurses 15%, doctors 10%, public sector 9%, pensioners 5.2%, single aid of 5,000 dinars. Very specific things. New highways are being planned. More highways have been made. In a few years, there will be more of them than in Joseph Broz's day. Is that a bad thing? All these highways give new life, a new opportunity for people from where they went abroad, they couldn't live, they gave a new opportunity to open up some factory, to have some pay. Guys, we're getting into a situation where we listen to these lunatics pay 20, 30,000 dinars in these factories. I was in Kursumlia in a village. The woman boasted that her daughter in "Leonie" was involved in finance and had 150 thousand dinars of salary. Everything's according to the level of education. So, don't talk and lie to people about wearing diapers and I don't know what they're doing. Babies wear diapers. The workers have machines. They have their tools. They've got their own drives. They have their own factories to work. Therefore, do not lie to the citizens of Serbia, to deceive them. Tell them your programme is to destroy Serbia, that your programme is to earn several hundred million euros more, and they will send you to the elections you don't go to where you need to go. Thank you and pleasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64235	Thank you. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64236	Mr. Minister, the problem of agricultural pensions and solving these and inherited ones, as well as the current problem of this government and what's going on backwards since the SNS is in power, is that this problem for farmers who want to retire has grown bigger and bigger. Out of all, I found just the official data, 145 thousand agricultural pensions are almost the majority and the largest number is those who receive about 10,000 dinars, and there are also those who receive family agricultural pensions, which is about eight and a few thousand dinars. They're literally with such pensions on the verge of poverty. The biggest problem is for those who can't retire because of the debt that came into existence when they weren't able to pay taxes and contributions, and we launched as MPs an initiative to write off their debt for health insurance that they didn't pay because they didn't even use it. No one, not them, not members of their families, no matter what happened to them, could verify their medical records. It is unfair, Mr. Minister, for the IRS to ask them to pay that part of the debt, and it is also unfair for one who handles 20 hectares to pay the same in a scale of taxes and contribute as one who has perhaps a hectare of land or has registered a farm household for some small leu of something planted, some small plastic. That's not right. It is truly incomprehensible that no one has taken this problem seriously for so many years. It is that this debt is large and that would burden the Republic of Serbia's budget with perhaps, you know exactly that in a dinar, one billion euros, but believe that this further situation is unsustainable. In certain municipalities in Serbia, farmers do what they do from morning to morning with the president of the municipality at the door, with the competent members of the municipal council and where we are part of the coalition and where we are the opposition and are looking for a solution - how to retire if this problem is not resolved. Says your coworker - time, and it's time for you to work it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64237	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64238	I'll give you an answer to your question just let me have a few minutes to consult with the minister and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64239	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64240	Thank you. Mr. Minister, good for your work. While you were in option two, you were the best, best expert, student of the generation, four masters, PhD. So, a couple of excellencies. As you came to us, you are a miracle unseen. Those bad-ass, bad-ass diploma of yours, and it's no good. Well, you're extraordinary, and why is that? The more bad they talk about you, that means you're top one. The worst talk about Mr. Vucic, and then Mr. Stefanovic, so you, so the MPs we criticise, criticise reluctantly, criticise thieves, criticise that while you were mayor, you found a state of billions and 200m euros in debt. Shame on them. You're the one who paid the families all their debts. Military pensions - we ended up in Strasbourg. Shame on them. And we covered that debt, 700 million euros. We covered all their debts. That's how it works. The international experts talk about you and your work, and I'll just say, the budget for next year is developmental and stable. That's what the IMF said, and I can only nominate. What does that mean? A month ago, we rebalanced the budget. Why? Because he had a surplus in the budget of 60 billion dinars. That's why we raised our salaries, we raised our pensions, we gave it to the pensioners. From next year plus 5%, the Swiss model, the pensioners. Pensions have never been bigger in their lives. We've raised the salary from eight to 15%, depending on who, most doctors and nurses deserve it. The pensioners every year, there'll be next year, and gifts and all. That's how the responsible government works. About how we do the best speeches finished Corridor 10, it's about Corridor 11, 320 kilometers of highways we made. No one's ever made so many highways in their life. We've created a mass of first-row highways. We're building railroads, railways, we're building a fast track, which will be ready in a few years. Who ever did that? Never anyone. What's the point of this budget? To improve the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that there are an even greater number of foreign direct investments for this year. In this year there were 2.3 billion direct foreign investments, for the next one there will be even bigger. Projected budget of 280 billion dinars for next year. I hope more. What does that mean? We are a respectable country in the world today, a center in the region. We have the most investment in the Balkans. And why is that? Well, because people see how we work, because we're a stable state, we've created a system. I'm sure next year will be even better. What's even more important is that 27% of 2008 was unemployed. Today is 10.3%, the historical minimum, I'm sure next year that number will be one-digit. Second, raise wages and pensions. Third, it's built everywhere, thousands of cranes in Belgrade alone, 10,000 in all of Serbia. Well, only my Leader has, I'm sure, over 300 cranes. That's how it works, we improve the standard of citizens, that's the point. The point is, we live better, let someone who lives upstairs say. There's no such thing. Minimal, let's do it in 2012, what was it, 16200 dinars, shame one. They stole everything they could steal. Today, 30,022 dinars, the average salary of 382 euros, today, 500 euros. What Mr. Sutanovac said -- when it's 500 euros, I'll join your party. Well, maybe he'd join, too, but the question is whether or not we'll take him in. You're doing a great job. I can talk about the budget that much. There's time for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64241	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64242	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, let's stick to the numbers a little bit. When we talk about pensions, it's very important to say what's been done this year, about pensions, and what's the plan for next year. When we talk about income and expenditure, total income and expenditures are 696,89 billion dinars for salaries and pensions and contributions that mean for the next year 4.3% greater framework than in 2019. Why are we saying this? So when we talk about the income side of the pension budget we have 7.04 billion dinars, it means a recorded framework for the PIO fund and for the integration of the employment. Why does it matter? Exactly what the opposition colleagues have been talking about, the integration of the labour force must go from these planned items, and 1.56 million also through revenues we have bigger for the RFO and the National Employment Service. What does that show? As soon as you have higher incomes for PIO and RFZO, that means that you have jobs, that you have new jobs, that you have new salaries based on which the essential state is income, and on the dispensary side of A we will also have 7.04 billion claims for PIO, that is, the amount of money that needs to be provided for pensions, and you will have 1.56 billion for payment and damages to court judgments. What does that mean? This means that those who have acted arrogantly by 2012, say according to military pensioners and some other pensioners where pensioners folded the tab, sued the state and received these court proceedings, the state is obliged to pay off and that the state has naturally provided these funds for pensioners. But the total incomes for the PIO that show that they amount to this year 527...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64243	Excuse me, colleague. Someone's musical here. They play nice geese. They can play geese, but not while there's a session and not in the National Assembly. It just shows how much you respect your colleagues. Here's my colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64244	I thank my colleague. You don't have to try, you don't have to think about respect, everyone talks about themselves as much as they respect, and you need to expect that kind of respect back. When we talk about state transfers, they're almost 8% smaller this year. It's going to be smaller, which shows that the revenues will be much higher, that the state won't have to isolate. Every year, she spends less and less money to pay for pensions, leaving that fiscal space for that pension increase, not just for that so-called. Switzerland's formula and model, but if opportunities are found, as has been found this year and last year for one-off payments, if the good state is income and business with the budget and if the economy is making big growth rates, it will be able to pay a lot more money. This is very important, that the transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Pensions amounts to 167.3 billion dinars, compared to the pensions of 157.3 and those ten billion are planning for the Republic of Croatia's centres and spas, which involve large investment in the future, which will see more and more revenue from the state. It also includes 1.92 billion for conversions in space, in land that the state will be able to earn on the basis of fees and taxis used by the Republic of Croatia centres and used for Banjska treatment. This also raises the level of service, when we talk about spas and standards and pensioners who, on the basis of their pension waiting, have the right to compete with the PIO Fund, when the PIO Fund announces a competition for the use of the Banjski treatment financed by the state, it really uses it for health purposes and thus provides itself with a much better life in those years, when it uses its pension. Therefore, the state is considering not only pensioners, not only to increase their standards, but also to think about how they will live next year, on which means they will simply be able to heal, and also their health to improve, even if they are not so sick. What is important in answer to this question is that the state is considering that pensions, and for those who are made by their actions, agricultural activities, must be compensated by a certain procedure, by legal means and for that State plans certain funds. What shows is that the level of pensions today in GDP in 2019 is 9.99%, with the increase that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted, which is that for next year we have a pension increase, shows that each year it will practically increase 0.3% and every year and more according to the Swiss formula this participation in GDP, which essentially shows that this domestic consumption is increasing. By increasing domestic consumption, we increase, support and economic growth through all the structures of Serbian citizens. So, both those who are employed, and those who work in the private sector, and in the state and pensioners who, based on their incomes, will be able to participate in Serbia's development. Not only economically, but also politically, because decision-makers in politics, when we talk about the government of the Republic of Serbia, about Serbia's future, will have the opportunity to show who they support next year, whether those who simply make the economy with negative growth, that is, the decline of the economy, who use personal wealth policy, or to support those who simply use all their capacity to improve and improve work, not only the state authorities, but all Serbian citizens, where each individual will feel this improvement in their wallet, in their life and be able to think about Serbia's future, their children and grandchildren. So, what we're talking about today, we're talking about the future, we're talking about next year, a year that needs to show how much Serbian citizens support politics and Alexander Vukic and SNS and the Government, Mrs Ana Brnabic, but also who support the work that is being shown through the work of all ministries. This document, which is in fact the most important document in the Serbian Parliament, which is discussing, shows who cares about Serbia's future, who cares about supporting Serbian citizens in their future and who doesn't. This is clearly seen in the presence of MPs and in this hall, because the street has never led to growth and the development of the economy, but only work, teamwork and consensus in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64245	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64246	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, therefore, of the model of development that Serbia is counting on today. The SNS, which is in power in Serbia, is the one that introduced DS into Serbia, therefore, to grant subsidies to foreign investors sometimes more than 10,000 or 15,000 euros. So, in this way, the state of Serbia pays the foreign investor, for example, 15,000 euros per job, that foreign investor then pays the most frequent minimum wage and then it turns out that it is actually a salary for several years financed from the state register. The investor also gets the land for free, as well as all other permits he needs. In this way, just because the IMF says it is positive, Serbia is counting on developing, and not one, especially the state of Eastern Europe, has developed in this way, because the system only corresponds to the IMF, the interests it represents and the others, i.e.. The lobby of foreign investors most often coming from Western countries, Western European countries. In this way, Serbian businessmen are discriminated against because they cannot have the same conditions. The strategy continues to be economical, which in fact originated. It draws roots from the wireless regime and then we boast about that data, 750m euros should be given in the next tone for these subsidies. It is devastating, which is bad for our domestic businessmen, which creates one situation that no one seems to be aware of, is a blackmailing potential which, once the number of foreign investors reaches most of the workers in Serbia will be large and they will start pressing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ministers under threat of leaving and leaving these people without a job, and the state of Serbia is investing money for it. As with the Fiat factory in Kragujevac, as we now have the opportunity to see very often in all parts of Serbia, it is seen as a salvation, as something that will rebirth us, and generally not, it is mostly just good for the one who comes here, who gets everything for free, is not good for our workers, it is not good for our economy and it is not good for Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64247	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64248	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, let me explain this comment on foreign direct investments and subsidies. There's a few things you should know. First, the government's policy since 2014 has been aimed at reducing unemployment. What our goal was to hire as many people in Serbia as possible, except for one head in the family and mother, or father, or son, or daughter as possible. And that's what the official data from the Statistics Office has been working on. So with 25.9% of the unemployment rate in 2013, each fourth in Serbia was jobless. We're at about 10% today, and it's still a high unemployment rate for us, but I expect we'll also go to a single-digit unemployment rate. On the other hand, in the past few years over 400, 500 000 new jobs have been opened, which also speaks for the success of this policy. There is no difference, and it is very important to note, between domestic and foreign investments. So investment support is the same for both. What we need to pay attention to and what's very important, what I haven't heard as a comment or suggestion, that's that difference between work-intense and capital-intense projects. What's going on? At the beginning of our reforms, about 2014, in 2015, there were more and more intensive projects that hired more people than investment in equipment. Now this changes, over the last two years you have an example of factories that invest 50.60m euros, so capital intensive activities, which have exports of 200, 300m euros and employ 50, 60, 70 workers. Our strategy is that apart from working intensively, we also attract capital intensive ones that support our exports. It's a strategy we won't give up on. So what we do with domestics, we do with foreign investors. The Financial Times, as one of, if not the world's most renting financial magazine, ranked us as number one last year after attracting foreign direct investment per capita, 107 projects, $5.8 billion. This year, for the first eight months, 40% more investment than last year, so together with investments in infrastructure, in highways, in industrial zones. I look forward, to be honest, to every factory that comes. Every factory, whether it's foreign or domestic, and they're all domestic at the end. Let me tell you, the one who invested money in Serbia employs our workforce, taxes, contributions to wages here, salaries paid by people living in Serbia. That's all Serbia, that all contributes to the growth of our GDP, that all contributes to the situation in our budget, that had a surplus for the third year in a row, that all makes our unemployment rate lower, that all reduces our public debt year after year. So, a real perspective, if you look at the rate of unemployment among young people who have halved in the last few years, it tells you enough to make the right decision in 2014 and to carry out this strategy consistently, to create new jobs, to open new factories, and to distinguish between working intensive and capital intensive, but again both types of investments are good for us and show real results. So once again, the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy is to support foreign and domestic investments. We are not making any difference, you must already know, so we will continue with this policy to further reduce unemployment and provide jobs for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64249	Right for the replica, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64250	As far as investment is concerned. First, we must have a chip factory a long time ago, and we're making plane parts, and we're making Mercedes buses and what we haven't heard as something that's going to be booming in our economy, and there was nothing of it at the end. If it were a Serbian product, even though the real foreign investors here, maybe we're fooling ourselves, we can lie to ourselves. That's what we saw when our dreams of exports of "Fiyata" to Russia collapsed. Aleksandar Vukic spoke more about it in public, how it is an excellent opportunity for Serbia and to take advantage of the agreement it has with Russia. On the Russian side, we heard it was an Italian product, which is being concluded in Kragujevac, made up by Serbs because Serbs are cheaper than Italians. So it's cheaper to make it in Serbia, in Kragujevac, than the Italians in Turin. After that, whose product it is, we can talk to ourselves. So, as far as the subsidy model is concerned, if it were good we'd probably be in Western Europe, and the Western countries that tell us that, they'd be in their own home, in their own countries of these things, and they wouldn't be coming here. It's something that's meant for these countries that should only be under control, to control them among other things and economic flows. This is what is foreseen for Serbia, as well as for other Eastern European countries without any discrimination. Just as we talk about these investments and how it's good for us, we fool ourselves and that unemployment in Serbia has been reduced. Now that we're counting on who's busy and who's not really working anymore. Today, unfortunately, one who has the most regular incomes and one from whom every average Serbian consequence depends financially on the one who has a pension, not the one who is employed. Just because we have more employees doesn't mean we have fewer unemployed, but you being here, they're employed now, but in Germany, Austria, Sweden, they're not in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64251	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64252	Thank you very much. With all due respect to you, only if you could explain your position to me would you, if there were no Fiat factory in Kragujevac and that 1,500 people were out of work? If I'm not mistaken, that's how I understand it. So if you're against it, just make it clear. We're not. So it's not easy in the automotive industry, if you follow the news from the world, you see that there are always some consolidations, opening up, closing down factories, opening up new markets, you have a global war on America, China, Russia, the EU, etc. So it's not all, Your Honor, black and white, it's not all simple. What is our obligation, our task is to fight – and fight. We fight to open up as many markets as possible for our products through free trade agreements, whether they are agricultural products, whether they are food products, whether they are cars, we fight. Somewhere we can do it, somewhere we can't do it. But we fight every day to provide people and Kragujevac with new jobs in other parts of Serbia. They were mentioned earlier as ‘Icarbus’. So aren't Mercedes buses made there or are they manufactured? If you look on the streets of Belgrade, there are "mercedes-icarbus" buses driving. On the other hand, you have a month or two ago and the Chinese company has taken over this Icarbus and it will be their center for Europe to produce electric buses. Is that not good news? Isn't it certainly employment for the workers of Zemun? Well, it is. That's what we're fighting for. There's an "MTU" in Old Paz, so it's an airline industry, so it's airplane engines. That's what we talked about, here, people sign the agreement, sign the contract, find a place to build a factory, build a factory. Six new factories, if I'm not mistaken, in Nis, I don't know how many in Belgrade, in Novi Sad. I remember that "Meita" in Belgrade when they came to me from some media and told me – so you're lying, it won't be, even though you have a cornerstone, there won't be 700 employees. One, 2,500, 3,500 people are working in Meiti today, in Obrenovac. You're no longer unemployed in Obrenovac because of that factory. With new highways, new investments, honourable MPs, that's our policy. I can take a special lecture here to make around all the factories that have opened up, around all the investors who have expanded their business here in Serbia in the last few years, but they wouldn't have come if Serbia hadn't changed its image first, that we weren't a clear factor of peace and stability in the region, that we didn't have a clearly defined policy of stable and healthy public finances, that we weren't every promise we made and fulfilled regarding the commitments to investors that were coming, because it's very important that you earn their trust. Once again, they don't hire their children, they hire ours. They come, open a factory throughout Serbia, wherever, and employ our workers, pay them salaries, pay them contributions, the Republic of Serbia's budget is paid contributions and taxes from there and we finance and build new hospitals, new homes of health, new schools, new kindergartens, new highways, it's the only correct policy. And once again, there is no discrimination between foreign and domestic investors, it does not exist, everyone has equal conditions. I personally visited a private company a month ago when I was in Rakovica where the owner was extremely pleased with the support he received from the state. He obtained new equipment from China, received grants from the government of the Republic of Serbia, plus assistance through the Serbian Development Agency. With that machine he bought, he becomes a leader in the region. It says – it is a real policy that is directed to both domestic and foreign investors. Depending on the level of investment, the state will always help, and it couldn't help, I'll end up with that, if we didn't have money in the budget, that we don't have stable and healthy finances. Then, and if anyone wanted to invest, we would say like those before us, we apologize, we have no, or we promise something, and we do not, we remain in debt, just as they used to do before us. No, every promise of support for infrastructure, industrial zones, obligations to investors, domestic and foreign, we meet in a minute, and therefore you never have more investment, says Sinisha or any of us here, that's what the Financial Times says, according to the International Monetary Fund, that's what the World Bank says, the credit rating agency and the Duing Business List of the World Bank, where we progressed, is what all those who objectively view the economic policy of the Government of Serbia and the state of our public finances say. So to repeat again, we are absolutely committed to opening new factories, opening new jobs in our country. The reduction in unemployment rate, the increase in the number of employees speaks in favour of how successful we are in this policy. There is no discrimination between domestic and foreign investors, and we will only continue with this policy, with the desire to be the first on the Financial Times list this year, to be the first in the whole world in the whole population, because this means only new jobs in our country and the goal that the greater number of citizens can earn their bread in this country, not that they make their dreams come true in some other countries and Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64253	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64254	The easiest thing to do is to banalize and say that if you criticize something that's bad in our economy, then we're for quits and that these people don't work, etc. So it's not us that these people don't work, but it's the fact that the Republic of Serbia pays these wages, that it pays for it all, and that foreign investor, such as "Fiyat" in Kragujevac, is pulling extra profit out of it. We still had more times when they threatened to leave Serbia asked for certain concessions from the Serbian government. Is that true? Now that we have the Mercedes Passion, we think we have the Mercedes production now, probably. What about the chip factory? What about the rebirth of Serbia's economy? What about the 100 billion investments announced by former SNS President Tomislav Nikolic at the SNS pre-election meeting? What happened to that? You compare the investments that come from the West and the ones that come from China. Well, that's what we first noticed, it's not the same. You can't put them in the same basket, especially since the Chinese companies that come here, fortunately, come here to stay, not to earn in the first two or three or five years of business in Serbia. This is what we advocate, that Serbia focuses on co-operation with these countries, and that it leaves what the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are telling us. You say: they are objective, they praise our successes. Well, they're everything, they're just not objective. They represent the interests of large-scale capital in the world, and they are not interested in our development and our employment. How can we not understand that? What do they care what wages will be in Serbia, what will be the price of electricity? If debts and loans are served on time, we're great. And how many employees there are, what the working conditions are, what the government's economic policy is in terms of foreign investors, it absolutely has nothing to do with them. Don't kid yourself, let's call things a real name and act accordingly, not keep talking about the golden age, and I don't know what, the biggest investments, the Duing Business Lists, etc. We cannot agree so much about ourselves and then say that we live so well in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64255	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64256	Thank you. It's not a very simple economy, Your Honor, and I'm going to end up discussing it with you because I think you're looking at it a lot simpler and much simpler than it is in practice. Every country in the world supports investment and all those factories that came to our country for competition had Poland, Romania, Hungary and others, we won precisely because they liked it, they accepted the model of our economic development, the quality of labour and the perspective of Serbia. I'm going to ask you and I'm going to finish it, I think we've exhausted this subject, do you know how much the US government subsidy paid off to Boing last year? The Boing company last year, so in 2018, for those who don't know, so the American company, one of the largest in the world, and who not the biggest in the world, got believe or not, subsidies from the US government in the year it fired 6,000 workers. How would you say that if you had to... And you know what the subsidy is? Two hundred twenty-seven million dollars. Then I really don't understand what you're talking about when you're talking about whether you should or shouldn't support investors. They should absolutely be supported, they're jobs, they're employees. All countries do it because they fight for their citizens, they fight for those jobs, we fight for them, and we won't give up on it. Finally, the figures are also in favour of this, and now the management of this strategy and towards more capital intensive projects is very important and you see, in the end, the average salary in Serbia with 328 euros just a few years ago, already at 500th. Well, I guess there's something good about that strategy of our economic policy when it comes to factories, employment, job creation, if at the same time we're growing the number of employees and growing the average wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64257	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64258	What we wouldn't compare to America, if we could already have a Swiss pension, a German standard, then we could compare to America. What is it for the American budget and for the economic power of America to give such subsidies to Boing? They don't care if they do. But we can't look up to America and think that we can do the same. On the other hand, we saw in 2008 when there was a global economic crisis, American taxpayers' money was used to save the largest multinational companies, and that's their policy economic and what we compare to them at all. We boast we brought someone here because, not by Bulgarians or Romanians or Slovaks or anyone else. Well, that's because we give most of our jobs. The aim of any economic thinking should be to bring investors, but at as little cost as possible, and not to have maximum costs, someone comes to pick up an extra profit from Serbia. Well, the Serbian government could have invested on its own and set up such enterprises and deal with it, what their investor from abroad would do, I guess the Serbian government could have done it alone. We boast of an average salary of 500 euros. How many people in Serbia are getting that salary today? Whether the largest number of people in Serbia still receive around 300 euros today, what they amount to in "Media" in Serbia, rather than an average salary of 500 euros. What are we talking about? So, for example, My salary is 70,000 dinars. National Bank Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic has 600,000 dinars, we receive 330,000 dinars on average. There, this is the method of calculating the average salary today by the government of the Republic of Serbia. So half the population eats cabbage, the other half eats meat, and everyone on average eats charm. That's how the government calculates this. Don't say again, what's devastating for Serbia is what we did, and you did it, Mr. Minister, you also recorded promotional videos when you boasted about the IMF's positive scores, if there's anything we can know that's not in the works, is when the IMF continues the arrangements. We know then that we are still a colony, and we still need them to give us these subsidies, to pay off loans, and how many employees they will be in Serbia, that is the least important.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64259	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64260	I thank the chairman. My dear Minister, only a political daltonist can't see that the decision on your doctorate is of a political nature. It's a poor university where two students, activists of the Alliance for Serbia, and a senior student in short underpants drive out of the cabinet rector with a request for your doctorate's annulment. Masks also fell with a statement by a professor from Belgrade's Faculty of Biology who, at the protest "one to five million", said the following, quote -- Belgrade University is on the line of the current government, there is no return. Dear professors, it is your legitimate right to deal with politics, but start a party or join the Alliance for Serbia, not to hide behind university autonomy as cowards. 'Cause imagine a doctor who's got sick conditions for his political goals. So, everything's a clear break-in to the Rectory is agreed. Secondly, the rector's promise that the request will be positively resolved in favour of this group, because otherwise they will return and block the university again. The statement by Sergei Trifunovic made in advance, before making a decision on your doctorate, says everything. Dear Minister Mali, I must say that you work as a great minister, and the message to this senior student is to take the recession and not come out of the Rectorate until that rector gets the exams to pass them and thus graduate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64261	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64262	Thank you, Chairman. We had a very interesting controversy about the purpose of the subsidy policy as an engine of economic growth, as the government's main tool of these and several previous ones, but here's the previous speaker who turned off the topic and touched on the questions of Minister Mali's doctorate, and then I'll take the opportunity to express my opinion that it would be ethical for the minister to resign. Now I'd like to return to the subsidy policy around which the polemics were headed until just before. Each government representative and the ruling majority can be called upon for individual examples that are successful in the specific environment, with concrete investors and specific persons who are in this investment and employees, but as much as the subsidy helps a particular environment, so much spent tax money remains denied by some teacher in another environment or a doctor in some third part of Serbia and for some other investment remains denied, say Vojvodina for some part of the highway or for some master's share, a type, such as the Frushkogorski Corridor. Therefore, the average wages on the subsidized investments and the problems of the average salary in general, and it has been previously said that it is not a proper indicator of the performance of the investment because it is enough to have a small number of highly paid people who will raise the average wage up and that is why the statistics are completely unreliable and incomplete. In 2016, we had information about "Media", so the income to which 50% of the employees are employed and then the data was thrown out that only 15% of the citizens received the average or more of it, only 15% of the citizens. The argument in favour of subsidies was also timely that Serbia's economy is not competitive enough and that the state must help it until it enters competitive positions so that it can compete with European partners able to one day become part of the single European market. It is not true that only weak, fallen, uncompetitive domestic companies are subsidized by large amounts of money from an extremely profitable foreign company. The modern Serbian party is not opposed to the arrival of foreign investors, because they often bring with them the new knowledge and new technologies that our economies need. But, how can I tell you, subsidisation of a bassological, oversubsidisation is the price of buying an investment and we are actually buying and paying for the lack of rule of law which is a key factor in the investment climate in our society. Is the subsidy economically profitable or not? To tell you the simple indication would be whether at any point the fiscal revenues from the subsidized businesses and investments exceeded the expenditures of the budget in terms of direct payments through subsidies and any other expenditure that the public interest has in this country through indirect benefits, write-offs, tax write-offs, municipal equipment also paid by the taxpayers. Therefore, at some point, the fiscal revenues generated from the subsidised jobs must exceed all of these charges, otherwise the subsidy is economically non-refundable. Does the Serbian government have such an analysis? If he has it, let him show it. Everything else is propaganda. You can name one, the other, the third, the fifth investor in one, the second, the third, the fifth, and say that some big economic brand of the world that, behold, came into our small environment. Well, of course, any person supported by the tax dinar will be satisfied with such a government policy because he felt it positively in his pocket. How can I tell you, there is an impression in the public that the distribution of the fruits of the subsidized investment is unfair and that the most beneficial of the subsidised investments is, under one – the subsidized investors and two – state officials who agree with them and the subsidized investments. I'm telling you what the public's impression is. Therefore, citizens do not feel that the fruits of the subsidized investments are evenly distributed because their profits do not say so. Ratings “Standard End Pura”, “Duing Business List” and similar fancy foreign names of various economic concepts may sound fantastic to someone who is not referred to in the problem, but they say nothing about the standard of living, they only talk about the credit capability of the state and, in fact, just give information to the creditors whether we are able to repay or not. "Duing Business List" speaks of an investment climate, but if the investment climate were good and the rule of law here was present, we would be forced to subsidise less. So what is needed is the rule of law and the repair of the investment climate in order to get investors here without buying them. We need non-selective measures that do not target this particular investor and the investor, but target the entire economy. Unfortunately, in this budget such non-selective promotional measures for the economy have lagged, especially in the private sector, because the Modern Serbian Party considers that the reduction in the profit of only 0.5 percentage points is insufficient, and that it could be seen to be more rigorously auditing of the excise policies that will be taken from the economy at higher levels in the coming years, and the possibility that due to increased consumption, therefore due to the economic growth that exists, although not sufficient, more excise goods, oil and oil derivatives will be spent, and the collection of excise duties on this basis will be higher, this has been observed even in the rebalancing of the budget, there has not been an audit of the excise policy to reduce excise duties on oil products and to reduce the cost of energy products and thus to finance. Therefore, these measures of non-selective incentives are applied to an insufficient extent, not sufficiently intensive, because at least that much fiscal space has been spent on public sector salary increases, which we do not deny as a measure, but we think it has been excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64263	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64264	Thank you very much, honourable MPs. The theme you started is a very important topic. A topic that speaks on the one hand about investment in our economy, on the other hand, about redistributing the economy in terms of tax cuts and contributions. In both cases, the fiscal space you mentioned is very important. Why is that so important? Until a few years ago, this fiscal space for Serbian citizens, to understand, is a budget area if you have higher incomes than expenditure. So, you have space, you have the option, you've paid back all the debts, you've paid back all the expenses you've had, but since the economy is better than you planned, you've got some bigger incomes, and then you're thinking about how to invest that money so that in the next period you have even more income and even more fiscal space and more, of course, less public debt and more growth rates. That's where you get to what the MP was talking about. Therefore, to create a real balance or balance between investment in infrastructure, public investment, between support for foreign and domestic investors and investments, between salary increases and pensions, therefore, increased consumption and finally, between tax incentives and the redundancies of the economy that everyone expects. So what I think we did, here's another year in a row, is we just found the best balance, the balance between these few factors that are the basics of one economy's growth rate. That we're on the right track and we've done a good balance shows and points to the fact that in the third quarter of this year we have 4.7% growth in our economy. For the last quarter of this year we expect over 5.2. So these are the serious growth rates of our economy that are talking about how well we've done that balance. We are going with an increase in wages and pensions to raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens in the shortest time period, to ensure that young people who want to leave, stay and have their Serbian dream come true in our country. We're going with never more public investment. The citizens of Serbia, and you know for yourself, we also opened Corridor 10 and the highway "Milos Veliki" and is built on all sides on both road and rail infrastructure, industrial zones and everything else. We also announced the National Investment Plan. So, another 10.12 billion euros in infrastructure for the next four or five years, so we're going with that, and that's the bearer of our economy's growth and development, along with the increase in wages and pensions, along with the arrival of investors in Serbia and the support of domestic investors to invest more, and finally, what the honourable MP was talking about, is also the redundancies of the economy that is very important. Last year we had a dilemma. The fiscal space was about 63% the burden of gross on net earnings and we said – let's slowly say that what no one wanted to deal with for decades is that we are dealing with it slowly but certainly reducing that payload. Then from 63% to 62%, and here we are, today in front of you in the budget together with the laws that we are going to discuss next week and this week we are reducing that burden to 61%, we are cutting 0.5% of the contribution for the PIO Fund to the employer's burden and increasing the untaxed share of income from 15,300 to 16.300 dinars. In total, we are reducing by 1 percentage point of the profit burden. What we said last year that we would slowly but certainly reduce that burden, we keep that promise today. I'm not into it, and we've heard this from the Fiscal Council, that in large amounts, you use fiscal space to reduce it from 63 to 50, 55 or whatever, I'm not into it because the economy never likes shocks. On the other hand, we also want to see what the result of this measure will have to do with increasing employment or the behaviour of employers in our country, but on the other hand, our approach is a clear signal that we want to relieve the economy further and that we want to reduce that burden from year to year, we started last year, here this year, we will continue next year. The condition for this is that we have enough fiscal space, the condition for this is that our economy is growing. So we also projected a 4% growth rate for next year. On the other hand, just so you know, that 1 % discharge this year for the next one is 13.1 billion dinars less revenue in the budget. So, so much as we as the state have said, in this balance or balance between different factors affecting the rate of growth of our economy -- that, so much we want to leave the economy more, not to pay into the budget, so that with that it can increase the wages or encourage itself, to invest more or to hire new people. As I said earlier, the economy is not black and white. You have a large number of factors, you have a large number of variables of one growth. What we want is to find a real mix, a real balance between different factors. I think in that, I don't mean, numbers, figures, the growth rate of our economy, it shows that we're doing it, in the best possible way. We are going to raise wages, raise pensions, grow public and private investments, and, on the third hand, continue to relieve the economy, cautiously, carefully, with a responsible policy, not to make major shocks, not to make major breaks, and on the other hand, to give a clear signal to all those who have already invested or want to invest in Serbia, that Serbia's state is ready to reduce this burden, in order to just boost higher employment and higher wages for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64265	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go. I'll give my colleagues a replica first, and I'll call you back later. [[Vladimir Djuric: Chairman, I answered the line.]] Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64266	Thank you. Minister, it is true that the economy does not suffer shocks and the Modern Serbian Party would not support measures that would cause economic shocks. It wasn't the fiscal council that asked for the payload to go down to 50, it was 58. The fiscal space for that was still at the rebalancing point, when we had about 45 billion fiscal space for incentive measures. For the sake of comparison, the first law adopted by this assembly was the transfer of taxes to income from local citizens to a republican level in a similar amount. So for so many local self-governments, they had to complement the republican budget. The budget balance isn't good. You were talking about finding the right balance when government measures are being created, when there's a fiscal space. The public sector, with this budget, has received 25 billion to raise wages. You have direct expenditure on employees of 22.5 and you have another two or three billion transfers of AP Vojvodina to employees in the field of education, a total of 25 billion for public sector salaries increase. Then, 13 billion, 14, the release of the obligation to save on the basis of a reduction in wages, the public sector is paying into the budget and finally 13 billion incentives in terms of a reduction in the contribution of 0.5 percentage points and an increase in the non-taxable amount of earnings. So, the public sector has received 51-52 billion budget gifts with this budget, the private sector has received all these last 13 billion incentives through a reduction in the burden of profit. And finally, let's give the exact data about that GDP growth. Serbia, Central and Eastern Europe, from 2008 to 2018, Serbia 19%, Central and Eastern Europe 34%. The first half of 2019, Serbia 2.8%, Central and Eastern Europe 4%. So, to go back to the budget balance, the balance wasn't good for the rebalance, nor for this budget, where we have a 20 billion reduction in social policy spending in the social protection sector. We've reduced the military's capital investment from 1.1 to 0.7% of GDP, but still 2.5 to 3 times military and military-police equipment. Not in the wages of the military and the police, which are not controversial, but in the equipment, we invest more than 2.5 times in the parallel countries of Central and Eastern Europe. These are the things that eat the fiscal space and therefore the money is left behind for the promotional measures of the economy. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64267	Thank you. I don't agree with you that there's no money left. There's money, and as you can see, we're cutting taxes and profit contributions from year to year. Feel free to tell me when it was in Serbia's history that these taxes and contributions are shrinking precisely at this rate that we reduce them, year by year, by one percentage point? On the other hand, if you look at the multiplier of the profit reduction in the multiplier impact on the growth rates of your economy, when you compare the profit reduction, or the profit burden, with direct investment in road and rail infrastructure, well, what gives a greater effect on the rate of growth? It's the construction industry. It's just infrastructure investments. They're the basics. If I'm not mistaken, from my theoretical knowledge, the multiplier for the construction industry is almost two. So, one dinar investment in infrastructure, in construction, two dinars, which, because of the other industries, the accompanying industries, the work and everything else, you have a growth in your GDP. So it's not that simple. I understand your approach. You might want to put more emphasis on making money. I have a table in front of me. Since we're looking at it here, to tell you honourable MPs, gross, net earnings, that's not how you look at the world. In the world, you can see what's so-called. tax wedge, or taxi wedge. At this point, in Serbia, it is 38.4%. So the net profit burden when you look at gross versus net is 38%. We are here, honourable MPs, on average 28 EU countries. They have an average of 38.2, we're 38.4. So we are not less competitive on this basis compared to the EU average. Our wish, on the other hand, is to be even more competitive, generally, for the whole world, to attract as much investment as possible. But on the other hand, look at the Czech Republic, which is 41.4%, Germany which is 45.4%, Greece which is 36.9%, Italy 40.9%, Hungary is that tax wedge. We have 38.4%. That's why I'm saying it's not a priority, if that's what I can say without you getting me wrong. So, reducing the burden on profits should be part of economic policy, an integral part of our economic policy, and it is. A clear message -- we're going with a reduction in the profit burden, year by year, as much as fiscal space allows, but here we are, two years in a row, by 1%. It is much more important that we continue to invest in our infrastructure together with the increase in wages and pensions. For two reasons, I mention an increase in wages and pensions. On the one hand, we are struggling to make the standard of living of Serbian citizens as high as possible in the shortest period of time. On the other hand, as you say yourself, we should keep people here to make their dream come true in Serbia. That's exactly the way. So the balance of consumption, personal spending pensions and wages, increase the minimum labour price. Let's not forget, people, we have a minimum labour price increase of 3,000 dinars as of January 1st. In the history of our country never greater. On the other hand, investment and public and private growth. When you look at the report from the Bureau of Statistics, you can see that the construction industry has again achieved 20% growth rates - 30% compared to last year, healthy growth rates and finally economic growth. So these three factors are the real mix at the moment and the growth rates of our economy and the state of the budget, which points to a surplus and a decrease in public debt, at the end and a reduction in unemployment rate, suggest, with a stable monetary policy, since none of these targets have compromised the rate of inflation either. So on the right path, it's building the basis for further growth in our economy, and that's exactly the balance that's connected to factors affecting our economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64268	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64269	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, here, you can return the stenographic notes, I haven't criticized capital investment in travel infrastructure for one moment. We all know it's more of a growth factor than some other measure. Therefore, the reduction in the burden on profits could have been slightly higher and could have been seen to be a reduction in excise duties on oil derivatives that fiscal space was not used to increase wages. Otherwise, the whole budget, when you look at the tables, is done schoolwork and you get a blood count where no parameter crosses the given range and goes anywhere in red. It is to the satisfaction of foreign creditors, certainly, done, nothing is disputed. There's only one factor that goes into the red, and that's exactly that too much pay hike, pay hikes in the public sector. I haven't criticised investment in road infrastructure, I've criticised that investment in military and police equipment is 2.5 to three times bigger than countries in the region, whose economies, otherwise, can handle it better than ours. As for investment in road infrastructure, a great example is the "Fruskogorski Corridor". I'd like to say hello to you when I draw you a scenario that's about to happen. The budget envisions a loan of 750 million for the "Fruskogorski Corridor" and Sabac – Loznica. It's all one highway about 120 kilometers away. That's about six million euros per km, and I don't know where the money is for Ruma-Sabac stock. It's a loan that needs to be taken. Those loans have to come here to the Assembly for ratification. It is one thing to predict in the 750 million credit debt budget, but only 200 million dinars are foreseen at expenditure on capital investment for the project. I believe it's project documentation, something to start with expropriation, etc. You will boast next year, all of you, surely, in the election campaign that this government will build the "Fruskogorski Corridor". Here, I'm telling you -- there won't be a buffer there and the shovel won't be stabbed until the 2022 presidential election, because credits have to come through special laws to ratification here in the Assembly. Whether this will happen by the new year, whether it will happen at an incomplete spring session, which is a question of how much and whether we will have because of the upcoming elections, so as long as it all goes by, while all these papers are made, there will be almost nothing from the "Fruskogorje Corridor". I'd say hello if I wasn't right, because it's a part that's extremely necessary. It's a rare phenomenon that you have international freight traffic passing through the heart of a national park. That I do not now open the topic of environmental protection, for which the budget is also insufficiently foreseen. We mentioned subsidies. The subsidies in agriculture are certainly welcome, but they have been reduced by about a billion and 800 thousand in this budget. Finally, this historic biggest increase in minimum earnings of 3,000 dinars a month, I think citizens know what it means to someone 3,000 dinars a month – nothing. It's, how can I tell you, life, survival at the poverty line. I think that our citizens have the right to expect a lot more from their lives, and that is much more possible if much more fosters the economy and, above all, the domestic private sector through the reduction of excise duties, through the stricter release of fiscal burdens, although it is true that the Fiscal Council gives a parallel analysis that they are smaller even in our countries in the region, but we have no other competitive measure. We don't have perfect high-tech technologies and we don't even seem to have enough education, because we also have one percentage point in economic growth. So we need sharper rates of economic growth, which would remove minimum earnings as a topic from the agenda, as it does, for example, does not exist in Sweden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64270	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64271	Thank you. If I may repeat what the honourable MP said, which I do not agree with. He said – what does 3,000 dinars mean for Serbian citizens? I wouldn't exactly disrespect 3,000 dinars, Your Honor. The 3,000 dinars increase in the minimum labour price may be little to you, for the citizens of Serbia, given that this is the result of responsible economic policy, that the minimum labour price in 2012 was 16,000 dinars, and now it will be over 30,000 dinars, I think it is a good result which is precisely in favour of how much we care about improving Serbia's living standards in the shortest time period. Someone might be dealing with politics differently, so you'd say, no, we'd do it now, and maybe you'd do it, in the end, increase the minimum labour price by 20,000 dinars, by 100, by 500, whatever you want, but we won't compromise hard-earned macroeconomic stability. We don't want to play with our budget, we don't want to play with our children's future. That's exactly how the 2020 budget was drawn up. High growth rates, with the preservation of macroeconomic stability. I heard the other day, and 5,000 dinars for pensioners is a little, uh, one-time help. Well, it's a little bit and 5.4% increase in pensions, and on the other hand, it's a lot if you raise wages between 8% and 15%. Come on, people, make up your mind, do we want to raise wages and pensions or do we not want to raise wages and pensions? Do we want to raise the minimum labour price or do we not want to increase the minimum labour price? Your comment on what 3,000 dinars mean to people – nothing, and on the other hand – why did you increase your wages? What do you want us to do? But I'm gonna go back to those salaries one more time. We've heard it many times, I'll read it again. With the salary increase, honourable MPs, we are in no way jeopardizing our budget. We have money for it and it's our decision and we wanted to and we wanted to raise the salary by between 8 and 15%. When we increase that, we come up with a 9.5% salary in our GDP. I read it to you and read it again, the EU average of 28 countries is 9.9% in GDP. In Croatia, 11.6% of public sector wages are in GDP. Slovenia 11.1. Romania 11. So we're still below 10%. We are in no way jeopardizing macroeconomic stability. Then why do you keep asking – yes, you have increased your wages excessively. No, we're not. We've increased as much as we can and as much as we want. Our goal is to raise salaries for Serbian citizens. Average salary 328-329 euros 2013/14. Here, now in December over 500 euros. It is, a promise we made, a promise we keep. In the end, we work and live to make Serbian citizens live better, to have more money for both their children and themselves, that pensioners have money for themselves and their grandchildren, when they give them, as you know, grandparents always help their grandchildren a little bit, buy some candy etc. So, gentlemen, let's be clear. Our economic policy is aimed at increasing wages and increasing pensions, but responsibly, according to the results we are making. That's why I'm saying, we need as many growth rates as possible, encouraging 4.7 growth in the third quarter of this year, 4.4 for the whole last year. This year will be the 3.7-3.8 rate of growth in terms of trade wars, recessions, almost recession in Germany, recessions in Italy, which are our largest foreign-trade partners. More than a good result, where you have achieved, had a surplus in the budget, budget rebalance, a positive budget rebalance, and you have a planned deficit by the end of the year with a further decrease in public debt, while maintaining monetary stability. I don't know which more economic indicator to analyse so you can say that the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not, as they would say, "spot him" or "right in the target". That's why we're gonna keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64272	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64273	Minister, all indicators need to be analysed because they give a complete picture. It's not enough to analyze the percentage of wages they're participating in GDP, so you're saying that we're standing here with countries that have much more GDP than we are. That, of course, isn't enough. The same percentage on a small and the same percentage on a lot more don't give the same thing. You said the budget was done responsible. Repeating what I said, the only indicator that enters the red in that financial blood count is the rate at which wages are increased in the public sector. It should have been exactly how nominal GDP growth would be, let's say, 6%, it would have opened up space for another percentage point of profit or tax reduction, and that for those another 10, 12, 13 billion more boosted economy, because this is better for Serbia, because by encouraging economic growth, it will rise effectively and realistically above 5%, and then the budget, instead of 1,300 billion dinars of income, will have 1,500 billion dinars of income, so there will be another 200 billion for diverse other social policies, encouraging policies, further reduction of burdens, etc., and then there will be space on the medium and longer term for much larger salaries. But here, the balance was made by principle a sparrow in his hand rather than a pigeon on a branch. The public sector's appetites and their employees were to be fed. Okay, and they're people and they, of course, need to raise wages. No one in Serbia is satisfied with the salaries. You've said exactly that 3,000 dinars means less to me than to someone who's received a minimum, but I'll tell you, that 3,000 dinars means a lot less to me than to you. It means less to you, it doesn't mean anything to you. So I don't see why there was a need for that kind of debate. We've had a great deal of economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64274	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64275	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a unique opportunity when it is on the agenda of the Budget Law, one of the most important laws, that the position and opposition face their opinions and their views and in one democratic environment to point out the good and the less good of this law. We must not use this opportunity to offend each other and to behave, at the very least, unculturally, but we must make sure that this budget is a budget that is of interest to all Serbian citizens and that we must make a maximum effort to meet this budget of many needs, the basic needs of all citizens now. At the same time, we need to listen to what people who are professional say, who are much better understood than most of us in this problem. I would like to commend the discussion of the profor of Hasan Hanic, who was on the first RTS programme today, where he has shown in a civilized, cultural way on the good side and on the other side of this budget. Hasan Hanic, as far as I know, is a prominent expert in his field and I don't think he is a member of any political organisation, and even if he were, there would be no problem, because his discussions are always correct and always in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, we must be aware of the fact at which the ship's helm, called Serbia, came into our hands. It was the moment when the sea was working, when it was from all sides and storms and hurricanes and bad weather, when the roads that needed that ship to move towards the port in which it would try to resuscitate everything that was on it, were invisible, when there were many rocks and cliffs on that road, and only with exceptional art, intelligence, knowledge of captains and crews, that ship somehow managed to get to the port of salvation, that is to get into a remonting institution, or shipyard. From that moment on, it begins the first stage in the development of each system, including Serbia, the survival phase. We managed to fight Serbia's survival, because we were at the moment when it threatened that this ship called Serbia would sink. With great effort and great knowledge, we have overcome this stage and entered the growth stage. Normally, many would like to see Serbia at that stage that is qualitative and is called development, or development, but it is not so easy to reach that stage. It takes a lot of time, it takes a lot of strength, and it needs a lot of knowledge. Now, on that path where Serbia is and where we are discussing this budget today, we cannot be incorrect and say that everything in the budget is ideal and everything is right. It's not true, it's normal, the conditions have forced us to make the budget fit right now. I also have to agree with the Professor. Hanic and all those who said there was a need to take care of the increase in wages and pensions. No one said they shouldn't be increased. It's normal, so everyone wants to have better financial conditions. But this suggests that we must be both wise and cautious, that we must not fall into the trap that one of the previous authorities has fallen into, when, with an enormous increase and pensions and wages, it has brought Serbia into a very awkward and difficult position. We can't afford that. Now, on the way to realising this budget and on the way Serbia enters the development phase, there are many problems. I'll name one, maybe two problems. One problem, most likely today and Serbia's biggest problem, is the birth problem. We're facing a situation where our birthright is extremely small and weak. But, at the same time, I talked to Minister Djordjevic, and I'm sorry he's not here, while we're making a big problem about the situation of pregnant women or maternity mothers, where we haven't settled the issue properly legally, so we're coming into a situation that these women who are on maternity leave receive 100, 200 dinars or 1000, 2000 dinars per month. We can't expect an increase in birth rate with that kind of policy. And that's one of the problems we have to solve. We may not be going to solve it with this very budget, but Minister Djordjevic promised me that a law will soon be prepared to correct those shortcomings. Another problem is education. It's not our fault, but it's not even the reason that we're getting away with it being the fault of previous authorities in I don't even know how many decades. We've brought ourselves into a situation where we don't have enough expertise in secondary education. We are now facing a major problem that we do not have enough qualified middle and craftsmen. I've been listening to a show recently, where it says -- we're pulling our welders, welders from EU countries, because it's the South Stream, and now we're paying them three to seven thousand euros. Why did we let ourselves get into such a situation that we didn't have enough builders, carpenters, or army men? Well, look at these construction sites all over Belgrade, and that's how it is across Serbia, you'll see a sign on every construction site -- it's wanted, and then it's written by armymen, builders, etc. I was in the Black Grass last week to celebrate 100 years of secondary building school, the oldest construction school in Serbia, a school that was a devastation of extremely good and quality experts related to the area of construction. Here, I'm also wearing a badge from that party. I have already suggested once or twice in this Assembly to the competent ministry that instead of closing that school in Black Grass, they should build a master academy, where all the staff from all these professional schools would come at least a month into practice, learn and train in those areas and become top masters, as the famous Blackwaters once were, neimari, masons. As a token of gratitude, they built a monument in the Park of Returns and on their way into the Black Weed. We should not have allowed ourselves the luxury of getting into the situation that we once gave to Europe and the world, today we have to look in Albania, Turkey, Romania, I don't know all of which countries. That is why we urgently need to solve these problems and not allow Serbia to come into a situation that has been known for its good craftsmen, today or tomorrow it does not have its own people, its workers who will work in these areas. For now, I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64276	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64277	Thank you. I have reported on this controversy, that is, the dialogue on foreign investors' incentives, and this is the amendment concerning, or the amendment mentioning pensions, the Swiss formula and so on. I'd like to draw your attention, Mr. Chairman, to respect your tolerance for boasting so much, I think it's a mistake for you not to turn your attention. I didn't mean to waste my time on the Rules of Procedure, but it is a typical business remark. So, you should have paid attention to Mr. Minister, I don't think his mistake is, probably not informed, that in this part of the debate he has the right to speak only for two minutes as well as MPs per amendment. So he speaks without limitations. It's no problem, but I'm saying, you're a tolerance, you're also giving some of the presidents of the opposition to break that deadline, but it's not bad to stick to it whenever we can and as much as we can the Rules of Procedure. But what is a dilemma much more important for citizens, for life, after all, and this country is this controversial around direct investment and especially foreign investors. I would go back to that topic, she is important, especially if I didn't want to have this almost one hour and half-hour controversy with a fellow opposition, right of me, about to create the impression that the main dilemma, which I assume the authorities are responding, but that the main dilemma is that there is some of the opposition, so certainly not us sitting here, or left of me, is against increasing wages and pensions, but there is the government and the minister saying - no, we want to increase. So no one's against an increase in wages and pensions. There were some opinions, of course, here, but some expert opinions on the justification of that percentage. I don't belong among them. So I don't think it was necessary to cut those salaries and pensions, that it could have been in a different way, but I'm certainly not against the increase. I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, you, not just you, but colleagues from the ruling majority, when they talk about the Swiss formula and some other stuff, it's like it's going to be Swiss wages. No, the Swiss formula doesn't mean there'll be Swiss, sorry, pensions. The Swiss pension formula does not mean that pensions will be Swiss, but only means a relatively decent way of calculating and that way we and I also support it. Also, from the presentation of a respected colleague Stojmirovic, a little while, I could support a good part of his discussion, and he drew attention to a fact that casts little shadow on this pink painting, on the pink picture that is being made here. So, these balances, which the government and Mr. Minister are proud of and stand out here, are largely due to some other things rather than just successful or not primarily successful economic policies. So unemployment is dropping, that's said, but unfortunately I have to mention, first of all, because people are leaving Serbia. On the other hand, it's a sad fact that we miss workers in many professions. We miss the masters. It's harder to find a master, minor, today in Serbia, in Belgrade or in a bigger city than an academic or a doctor, I mean a doctor of science. It's hard to find a doctor like a nurse. So, our experts are leaving, we're getting high-schooled, we're getting high-schooled, and it's a catastrophic trend. Far from thinking that now only this or one government or one set is responsible for it, but that's a problem that we have to look into, honestly, not get carried away by some favourable and statistically favourable, sometimes a little tense, numbers. Obviously, Mr. Minister, no matter what you're talking about, it's relatively measured, at least during today's discussion, that this game, this betting by investors and on the side of the investment, has not yielded enough results. We're not against it, but clearly, different measures are needed. You haven't noticed, but you have one example that you cited this afternoon in the debate, winning, how the American government or the American state invested hundreds of millions of dollars in Boing to save it. You only predicted one thing – "Boing" is an American company. They invested in their own company. They invested in saving and helping their company, such as during the global economic crisis mass, breaking, by the way, many of the principles of the letter world and the letters of liberal doctrine, economics, and how they saved, not only the Americans, and the British, and the Germans, and the French, and their companies and saved their banks. So, this example of "Boing", which you have cited, shows just that we should have a slightly different relationship and that these big economies and big countries or serious countries, not only big ones, it's very important, let's look at Slovenia, Hungary, these aren't big countries, they can be a role model for us when it comes to these things. So this liberal or neoliberal concept, that swearing that as many foreign investments as possible, the higher standard, it will be better for the state, has not yielded results. You, like me, know that it's a concept that one other government or furniture, a group of experts have promoted since the beginning of 2000, and many have sworn in it then. That concept has collapsed more or less in the world, failed, and it has shown its bad side with us. I'm not saying this to collect any cheap political points, nor to resent you, but I'm simply trying to draw attention to this heroic and commendation that some newspaper or some international institution has praised us, so she commended us for the things that suit them. It's important for them to have a stable dinar course. It's important for them to pay off the debts they give us, and that's how the state is on some kind of rope, not to say hooks. Most specifically, when it comes to these chips, famous ones, which are not, or has, factories, or those planes, or some high-tech technologies, of course, foreign investments are welcome and should be given incentives, but it is not good at what our country, Mr. Minister, has, as you know, given years and incentives for the factories and employment of people who, for the minimum means, are rolling cables, making cables, creating other things for production that are not highly technological and sophisticated and for things that could easily be or could be without them or could be done by domestic producers. That's what this is about. So, for some complex, complicated investments, including those cars and the automotive industry, it's a branch that requires donations and subsidies from the state and, unfortunately, others, but for what was usually given, I know examples from Somboro, I know examples from other parts of Serbia, they gave subsidies, that they were about to hold water while the master was gone. By the time the deadline or the subsidies are spent, that company, that factory closes down, the investor leaves and looks for some new sheep to cut hair. So I appeal to you, I end up with more attention, more emphasis on domestic production. You're proud and you say, so she criticises you, you say -- no, they have equal treatment, domestic and foreign investors. First of all, the question is if they do. When you look at the figures you see that actually much more goes into subsidies to foreign investors, and even if they have equal, I suggest you, see that in a discreet and rational way support domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64278	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word is Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64279	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 106th and 107th, and I could also advertise the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I don't know if this was on the toilet, but I didn't understand anything. So neither did the speaker stick to the subject of the agenda, and in my view he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. How? You all remember the Law on dual education and colleagues who attend the National Assembly meetings all the time know that the previous speaker was against dual education, and now he's pissed off that there are no water masters, no masters for this, no welders, nowhere to find builders, etc. So someone who was against dual education and the creation of new masters now complains that these masters are gone. Of course, the previous government, which he supported, invested more in dual education and less in gambling, and where he was a lucky winner, without buying the lottery, imagine when you don't buy the lottery and the lucky one, and you get lucky, then Boris Tadic's lucky hand must have gotten involved in it. That's why I think it hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, and given that in some real sector, I've been so degutant when people who have made such a deficit, when people who haven't done anything in the economy, or when they've supported a regime that hasn't done anything, when they're talking about how to work today, and I know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that there's only dust left behind, the dust, the state wasn't, they've scattered everything, but they've filled their pockets... When I remember, they didn't do anything big, that they weren't sweating, let alone the sweaty water got drunk, that one nail in the wall hadn't hit, that even today their sweaty shirt, as we solve their problems, we could hang on to something, when they talk about the economy and how they should work, when they talk about public opinion research, when they talk about journalism, when they're also journalists, public opinion researchers... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... And when they teach us what to do, it is an insult to a healthy brain, let alone the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64280	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Now the word has been given by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64281	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the previous ones, since the debate of the Members of Parliament in the Serbian Parliament, and I can say that the debate has had a high degree of personal and clearly defined economic attitudes. In general, I could not understand anything excessively because I listened very carefully and when they start to discuss an economic topic on one principle, we end up in a completely different principle and that is a political position. Here, in general, on budget management, there are very few theoretical grounds not only in the Assembly, but also in the discussions we hear in the public, as well as my distinguished colleague when quoting some distinguished professors. I'm a pay raiser. Why does it matter? I'm not saying I'm completely familiar with the economy, but I get it pretty much. I'm in favour of an increase in salary and I'd like to pollute with my colleagues and with the public of Serbia, who has no such attitude. By increasing the salary by 22 billion, we lead to an increase in personal spending. By increasing personal consumption, we lead to an increase in GDP growth. When we increase pensions, we do the same thing, we lead to increased personal consumption and creating assumptions for GDP growth. Why don't I agree, in fact, why a large part of Serbia's public doesn't understand when we cut labour taxes, which we're reducing, that it's the same effect as an increase in wages. When we cut labour taxes, we actually increase personal consumption by theoretically increasing the salaries of workers in the real sector. It is the same effect on GDP growth, as a reduction in labour tax, as an increase in wages in the public sector, as an increase in wages, if you believe in multipliers. You have a theory that says you believe in multipliers, you have a theory that says you don't believe in multipliers, but in either case, multipliers never give less effect than what you've invested. When talking about the public sector and investing in the real sector, that is, what the Serbian government is doing by giving subsidies- subsidies are given in two cases, when you have a level of unemployment at the level of the macro-economy large, or in another case, as was the case in Serbia, and in other cases when you have a reduced demand. Here we come back to the multiplier, and there's no variant that says that for a hundred dollars you're going to have less than a hundred dollars invested. At worst, the effect of vomiting on the Republic of Serbia's budget will be as much as we have invested, and you have the assumption that it will come up to three times as much. What I would particularly like to point out, Mr. Minister, and I think that is one of the key topics that speak about economic growth and development, and that would agree with my colleagues, who brought this up -- it is the education system in the state of Serbia. The education system, in Serbia, is a classical system that has not been reformed from an opportunity somewhere, especially in higher education since 1946. You have a higher education that has more than 20 billion own incomes and you have said nicely that you and the Serbian Parliament, as well as the government, have not reduced the financial resources of the University of Belgrade, but have reduced their own revenues. So, the poorer functioning of that in the financial sense of the university. Not to meddle in the autonomy of the university at all, I simply from the corner of someone who is on the Committee on Budgets I want to subcentrate and I think it is a question that you should open with Minister Sarčević – an education system that implies a way of funding higher education, secondary education and primary education. It is time, Mr. Minister, to draw a line and see if Serbia wants to stay in this funding model, or if we want a modern education, world-class in the way of funding. It is unacceptable that the own funds of the University which are the largest and move at the level of the budget of the city of Kragujevac and Nis together have been practically removed from each of the Committee's budget controls and we as owners have no right to function and understand how these funds function. It is also unacceptable that the funding model by which we will have education that we finance only on the basis that the state owns total discrimination among private owners of education institutions. It's completely incomprehensible in modern order. The state of Serbia has an obligation to ensure that the system of education, as it says under the Constitution, provides safe and accessible primary and secondary education, but nowhere does it say that we must and should make discrimination in the way of funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of ownership rights. This is one of the key issues that certainly affect the social gross product, economic growth and development and certainly is some skeleton from the past that keeps falling out of our closet. Of course, when you reduce taxes on work, you do not encourage the economy – I do not understand what you mean by economic incentives? The reduction in labour tax implies that this amount of resources you reduce goes either to increase personal consumption, or to earn workers or to go to investments. In both cases, the growth, i.e. the incentive and potential for GDP growth, is the same as the other financial resources you invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64282	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Now the word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64283	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of funding education, especially higher education, is definitely a subject that should not be overrun so quickly. I have certainly supported the idea proposed in the draft budget to increase education revenues in general. However, what we have in higher education is that this is a unique case in the total spending of state resources, i.e. the resources of citizens where we actually have a state, or government whose role is only to make money that and after that we no longer know what is going on with that money. You don't have to be an economic expert to just take a little peek at how certain universities at universities finance, where they still show up. additional revenues, additional resources, something that absolutely does not have a standstill in the law, but in general, the state and the competent authorities have accepted in some way to be defeated by certain structures of the oligarchic groups and individuals who have fought for some kind of illegal status. That, gentlemen, is inadmissible and not just because of certain political and legal inaccuracies. This opens the space for even worse and worse conditions in higher education. That is why I call on the competent authorities to continue to deal with this issue together if we want to save education in general, especially high education from total collapse. In fact, whoever is following these days and this attempt to deal with legally elected state authorities, the government and in general, the authorities in the wake of the disputed doctorate of Mr. Secretary of Finance, which is actually just a means of a political reckoning, if you still have a clear eye to observe the details, you'll conclude that there's absolutely nothing to do here. So, the quest to preserve academic honesty and just introduce the concept of non-academic behavior is another acrobatic, or demagogue deformity that needs to be challenged, and in fact the concept of unacademic behavior itself is neither academic nor legal. In fact, it opens up a new field of free evaluation of certain people who are in positions in higher education and who can declare anything unacademic, and on the other hand we have hundreds of examples of negation of facts, negation of scientific truths, disrespect of basic methodical, thought and scientific principles regarding taking certain views. Of course, we're not afraid of new ideas coming from university circles, even political issues, but it has to be explained by the arguments of a better one, in general for society and the state. And when it comes to academic honesty and non-academic behavior, it appears by people who over the past years have been sickened by higher education and have been symbols of non-academic behavior, have participated in various activities, organs, through conflict of interest, directly in violation of the law, in violation of legal norms, and today, through various microphones, various televisions and various bodies, and even some ethical committees and certain positions, actually appear as saviors of the academic integrity of the alleged struggle against non-academic behaviour. This isn't just a matter of having to deal with the finance minister or the government, this is a lot more to me. This is an attempt to build under the umbrella of the university in deep shade by protecting itself by the notion of university autonomy, in fact, a bunch of destructive energies, gentlemen who can cost us a total debacle in higher education. I'd like to use it as an alarm, and at all levels including the Education Committee, including certain other structures, to address this issue, if we want to use our last moments to save what can be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64284	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64285	I use the time of the parliamentary group to say that the 2020 budget is higher by 7.7% for the field of education and 2.2% for science, technological development and innovation, which shows the responsibility of this government and the state to take care of science and education in a completely different way than before. But here we have now opened a question about who, say the People's MPs of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Expension Control also said when he was Minister Krstic and when he was Minister Vujovic, and here he is now and when Mr Sinisa Mali is Minister of Finance. So, transparent in spending public funds, the issue of own resources, certain state institutions, unrecognizable to us MPs. We don't know how much universities and colleges earn, and we don't know how much they spend. So, when it comes to private, you can simply see it from the final accounts, but when it comes to state colleges, you simply can't see it to the end honestly because based on their own resources, they don't have to show the final accounts and those on the realisation of the budget. The most important thing for them is to show that budget part that goes through the budget and goes through the Treasury Authority, and that part of their own funds can already give certain investments, projects, and simply no one has to control it. Therefore, the biggest lie now given these last days through the Commission's decision that Mr. Sinisha Mali has a PhD in plagiarism, is that Mr. Sinisha Mali gave a smaller budget to the Belgrade University because he knew, for God's sake, that the political commission would condemn him for doing something in 2011. First, it's one big lie, because Belgrade University received 804 million dinars more for next year than this one, I'm talking about budgets, and they showed that their own funds would be much less than they were last year and before. Now that's a question of whether it's going to be smaller or not and why is it going to be smaller? Does this mean that it's incompetent leadership to train a financial institution to earn more or at least the same as this year? So now I'm asking a big question here in public -- when are we going to be able to look at the exact same way as all the people who have certain functions in this society? So, they've been selected in a certain way from certain structures, they're professors employed in college, they're also public figures, they're also doing a public job, they're subject to the Anti-Corruption Agency to file their own property report. Therefore, what is available to finance should also be a public matter. We have talked about it for over five years, however, no minister wanted to face the fact and to start this topic in public because it is not popular. You know, it's not popular to be a minister and talk about teachers, because it's something that doesn't touch here or in any other society, but now we're coming up with another situation. If this Belgrade University has spent five years campaigning for a particular doctorate, the moment Mr. Sinisha Mali took office as mayor, it is 2013, Mr. Prof. You know what he's saying -- here's five years of our fight to prove that Sinisha Mali plagiar and Aleksandar Vukic has been torn down by such a decision. This means that it is a political decision, because if that doctorate was not important to anyone from 2011 to 2014, and it is starting to be important in 2014, so a whole political campaign is being conducted between students and teachers, that there are certain structures in society that trigger certain protests, which are funded by the Alliance for Serbia, and then we come to have confirmation of all of this. Yesterday and the day before, we have at "Blica" Jelena Anasonovic who says there was no plan to take over the Belgrade University and the Rectorate in order to exert political pressure, and we also have Sergei Trifunovic at his disposal at any time, if they were to close again at Belgrade University, then he told you that it was a kind of blackmail from the Belgrade University to ask for more money than the finance minister, blackmailing him to be a plagiarizer. So today, we have a subject in public that wants to bring down the entire education system of the Republic of Serbia, and besides bringing down a complete system of funding and a topic called the 2020 budget. It is political preparations for the 2020 elections, but excuse me, what are those who are preparing for this political avalanche? They're getting ready not to go to elections, actually because they know they're going to lose, and they're actually about to take over the state institutions illegally, that's to lock themselves up in colleges, and try to say that they're all plagiarists, that they're all thieves. Then you get in society a bad atmosphere where investors who need to come don't want to come. That atmosphere is actually going from the professor to the students. That's what's wrong. This is what destroys Serbia's future, which ruins the concept of young people living in Serbia that is developing. You don't want to see numbers, you don't want to see Serbia's development, you don't want to say that something's progressing in Serbia over the past five to seven years, after reforms have been carried out. We have the last four years of non-stop surplus and progress, but you say it's not good, it's nothing good, it's too small a growth relative to countries in the region. You just want to dissipate everything that's good. When we talk about the university and when we talk about college, I just want to tell you, if you look, if you want to be honest with the doctorates, not just Cynthia the Little, but many and current professors, the first question is, did each of the professors have published work on SCI when defending that doctorate? Secondly, the question arises, if the Faculty of Organizational Sciences and the Commission has made a decision that it is not plagiarism, that there are errors in citing quotes in the opening part, it is a methodological mistake, that it is so called. software that controls whether or not someone has plagiarized certain parts of the work, means at the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, and if teachers, who are in that entire university, say that it is not plagiarism, and that you are in a position to be declared under political pressures as plagiarism, then we are talking about a Serbia that simply has no mechanisms to make an adequate, relevant decision whether or not a doctorate is plagiarized. Because here we have one game, playing with people's fates, playing with PhDs, playing with the public and those people's families doing something. I totally understand Mr. Sinisha Malloy, who didn't want to cancel all his doctorate, because if you look at his diplomas and the average of his studies and everything he did, if it's a mistake to become mayor, if it's a mistake to become Minister of Finance, to challenge his work, then he's absolutely right that he didn't want to withdraw his doctorate and say - I'm pulling him because he's a plagiarist. I think that because of this, when we talk about this political punishment that someone has to pay for such a thing in public, it just has to come out and say, each of us carries our own burden of political function, but it must never be subject to anyone's debate and anyone's destruction of life. No, only Sinishi Mali, but Alexander Vukic, because Mr. Trebišanin on "N1" on the show says that this university decision is actually the first step towards destroying Alexander Vukic. So what else do we have to talk about if one "N1" should deal here with the doctorates of people who are in political office. Who knows how many professors you don't have in politics, and they have, say, problems with the use of footnotes and you can characterize it if it's plagiarism, it's not plagiarism. We don't know that today. It should be controlled in both private and state colleges, but all of them, it also means those who are professors now because, believe me, in state colleges there is less control than in private colleges, just because the focus in society at private colleges is so much that the apriors are all plagiarists, that the simple level of knowledge, the level of criteria in private is much smaller, which is of course not true, depends on both professors and those in the decision-making system when and the teaching scientific higher, and when the rectors are concerned. Therefore, our conclusion today is that you have a continuation of this political campaign, that those who have made decisions are in fact ousting from the authorities and Alexander Vukic and trying to make life, not only Sinishi Mali, but all those who perform important functions in society today, have dwindled and sent into the history of the past. That's not gonna happen. Why? Because there must be people who will fight for the truth to tell. And you received an answer as to Sinisha Malo, and by Alexander Vukic, and by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and by Mr. Minister. This morning he was welcomed to put some chains around the ministry until he resigned. He shouldn't resign. It should not be because it should show Serbia that the truth must be won, regardless of what someone wants their media to show that a political campaign exists and that that is why Aleksandar Vukic should resign because Sinisa Mali allegedly has a certain type of plagiarism, because she has methodologically made mistakes. He's certainly not hiding it, and that's why he must be sorry today. But what makes him sure he won't resign and cancel his work, because he knows he's done his work fairly and spent a lot of time doing that doctorate. But it was a goal, you know, to bring down a doctorate at the state college, so that everyone in private and all those belonging to the SNS would be shot down afterwards. Well, we're gonna have to fight all together to prove to the public what's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64286	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64287	Thank you. A large part of today's debate here in the Assembly, when it comes to the budget, relates in fact to the part relating to the increase in pensions and salaries, on the other hand to education, methodology and attitudes to education and its application, i.e. the adjustment to the labour market itself. I would actually refer to that part of the debate and that part of the story, to point out that my personal opinion that, when it comes to this draft budget, given that it was based on real foundations, it was necessary to make an increase in wages and pensions. Why? If the result in the budget is already positive, why not raise wages and pensions and thus stimulate better citizens' lives so that they also feel the improvement in their daily relationship, aside from the fact that, of course, spending will increase. On the other hand, when a positive effect has been achieved in the budget, without increasing pensions and salaries, would it not, on the other hand, from the opposition and other lines, ask the question, why not increase when the positive success and the positive effect have already been achieved, but everything is given to other goals where the people do not feel a better life directly. We are also talking about the problem in our country that citizens are going abroad. Why are they going to work abroad? Because there's a lot more to pay for the same work. So let us, based on real goals, on real achievements, on real income, grow here wages and pensions, make a better life and that young and at all citizens do not want to go to another country, but rather stay in their own. I will support every government that is currently projecting in some future time the development of an economy based on foreign investment and on domestic capital, which would develop both the state and business sectors. Also, on the incentives of the state and the creation of state aid that develops and helps businesses exactly as planned, someone says – ah, it's a overcome state economy, it's not like that anymore. However, in many developed countries, we see that there is exactly the state taking care of certain sectors of work, certain sectors of production just to achieve the objectives of the state in all segments of its work and development being functional, achieving economic objectives and achieving economic interests. For such a development of capital and such a development of the economy, of course I believe that they can always gain the support of all citizens, and thus the majority in the National Assembly. What is also important, I think, when it comes to this, when it comes to one long-term forecast, which is constantly aimed at finding ways and conditions for the development of the economy, to ask a question and plan long-term pension security. Today we have a situation that pensions have reached a certain positive level, that we have come to get it so-called. In the following year, the Swiss model increases and harmonizes both with GDP developments and with price developments, which shows a balanced concern about pension growth in line with the conditions that objectively exist. But the question arises, if we know that the problem of restoring the population is a big problem and that in the next 20 and 30 years, it is difficult to bring about one of the necessary levels of renewableness of the population in the most positive sense, that the young population is leaving, then I ask the question – how are we going to finance pensions in 30 years without being out of the budget, that it is not the grant, because then it will not have, as it is already said in today's debates, to a sufficient extent of young labour that will finance pensions. So I'm saying that right now, at this very moment, the state and all the responsible officials are just thinking and creating conditions that there are funds in the state budget, or in the social security system, in a country that goes from the gross income of employees, but on the other hand that capitalizes and creates an adequate system to use private funds. But when it comes to one and the other, I think that there must be an equal relationship to one and the other fund, i.e. at all times when private pension funds, or state funds, funded by all citizens, created by certain capital, were invested in the travel economy, and invested in enterprises, and were invested at the end and in the spa, and we are talking about their sale and their privatisation. It must also create a basis to protect this capital, because it is protected abroad and in private funds, so that tomorrow and in 20 years, all trust in state funds, everyone also added their capital to private funds and thus created that necessary financial mass to ensure the social conditions of the lives of all citizens. We see that there is also a way of working and work at all connected to, I would say, and the position of workers in our country. I advocate that with the development of the compensation economy, wages, workers' earnings must follow that economic growth, because work must not be underestimated, work must have its price and must not go below the absolute level of its evaluation in a good way. We're finally a few sentences, there's a lot of words here about education, there's both private and state. What I find important in both systems is the quality and knowledge that will be given to young generations and all those involved in all education processes, I would say, for the whole working century, because there is no more – I have finished school and now the learning is no more, but in no other case can it be underestimated and brought to the level when students, when students do not get the right knowledge and the right training for work. Education must not be brought to produce so-called "state". biomass, or children, not to acquire the right knowledge that they will later be able to make the right use of in the economy and in the work. Functional integration with the labour market in our education reform must absolutely be linked to the labour market, the needs of the economy and its projection in some future period. I believe that in one responsible country, this kind of planning and development and one and another activity can only lead to the quality and security of what creates the basis of a modern and developed state. That is why I expect budget planning to be absolutely based on such principles in the coming year. I hope that the minister, or future government, will keep everything in mind and that this will be the principle of creating a modern and developed Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64288	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64289	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I support the government's opinion on the proposed amendment. I'd just like to say something about the allocation of health care funds that are scheduled for 2020. I must start by saying that the Serbian government has already done enough to improve health care in Serbia and that this trend with the 2020 draft continues, as seen from the fact that the health budget has increased by 70%, i.e. it will account for 2.4% of the total expenditure of this budget. What I particularly want to point out is that these are the distinctions that are foreseen for preventive health care. For this purpose, 1,325,513,000 dinars are foreseen, especially for the prevention and control of leading chronic non-infectious diseases, such as cardiovascular, malignant diseases, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases. I would remind myself that 17.9 million people die in the world every year as a result of heart and blood vessels, and that a third of all the causes of death in the world are heart and blood vessels. The World Heart Federation warns that at least 85% of premature deaths can be prevented from controlling major risk factors such as smoking, malnutrition and hypertension. Heart and blood vessels, or cardiovascular diseases, are the leading cause of death and in our midst, and they account for 51.7% of all causes of death in Serbia. In 2018 cardiovascular disease and malignant disease accounted for two-thirds of the cause of death, and each fifth person died of malignancies. It is known that the risk of cardiovascular disease is greater in those who suffer from diabetes. As I said, in Serbia about 50,000 people die annually from heart disease and blood vessels, most of all from a heart and brain attack and the result of hypertension. Therefore, it is very important to allocate funds for preventive work in health care, for screening population reviews, for the health promotion of the population, because early detection and initiation of treatment will reduce treatment costs, reduce mortality, increase productivity and return to the working ability of those who have been ill. I also want to point out one more thing that is covered by this budget, which is positive for healthcare, which is the separation of significantly larger funds for the treatment of rare diseases, which, according to our country's data, there are about 450,000, although there is no register of patients, so that this data is not very reliable, but certainly this increased allocation from the 2020 budget of 2.4 billion dinars will facilitate the treatment of this group of patients. I want to say that it is necessary that, in addition to investments that mostly go to large clinical centres, funds are channelled into smaller environments to improve healthcare at all levels and internally, not just in large centres. I have to say, it's already done. So in Lazarevec this year, an outpatient maternity home was built, which solved the decades-old problem. I would also like to say that it is necessary to provide as soon as possible at the local level and the stationers or any other institution that will be used to treat the patients in terminal stages of malignant disease. It's a big problem for both the sick and their families at the moment, so I think the solution to this problem needs to be found as soon as possible. Finally, although not least significant, I have to say that the salary increase in healthcare is the highest, that nurses will get 15%, doctors 10%, which is very significant, and this is made possible by the proper policy of the Serbian government, which has reached surplus in the 46.6 billion dinar budget for the first eight months of this year. This will certainly affect the reduction of the outflow of personnel and that these personnel do not go into the world, and this will also ensure a better performance of healthcare in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64290	Thank you, Mrs. Bukvich. Now the word has been given by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my apologies, I couldn't get involved when my colleague Tomic finished. I wanted to call back then, but when I got involved, you had already given your word to your colleague Dragas, so you would return to what counterpart Tomic was saying in the part where she spoke about the alleged plagiarity of Mr. Minister. It may not be, in addition to this amendment today, it is not a subject, but it is important that we take our stand in the Assembly, because this Assembly has also elected Mr. Little as Minister. It is becoming more and more important and it is no longer just Mr. Minister as an individual, it is becoming more and more important whether or not we are going to take a stand to prove it, and there are many, many arguments to prove that this is a political decision and a political stance taken at a high institution, such as the University of Belgrade, because, here, you have now on social networks in the last days of each other, mentions many other names of people who are in significant functions in this country that they have also plagiarized their doctorates, and doctors are science. I mean, I deliberately said that they were plagiarizing, and that's the key thing I want to say about Mr. Little and his dissertation case. You haven't heard one word in public mention in the context of this decision, so we're not even talking about the other side today. There's no one to plagiarize their own doctorate, there's another side, on the other side of him who's officially confirmed that the man's doctorate, defended the dissertation, and she's accepted it. I will never accept any position of the University of Belgrade on this case or any other case until they announce it to this public and I hear it, and then I will take my position, what did the University of Belgrade do to get through and dissertation of Mr. Malo and now all those who mention it on social networks, etc. Where's that other side's fault? Will someone please tell us what kind of university this is? What moral rule? I don't accept that there were people sitting there who couldn't appreciate the true value of dissertation, who couldn't then assess whether it was plagiarism or not, I don't accept it. So it's not, and it's my biggest argument, that it's not the right state of affairs, but that it's political pressure and that it's a political decision. And, the esteemed lady rector, what she allowed to be in the recession, and we know what went through, was then actually succumbing to all these pressures and then it was seen that she was working under pressure and some things allowed to be done. Therefore, it is she who should leave her post, not Mr. Minister to resign. Because we didn't choose Mr. Minister and nobody because Dr. Science is, but because of what he's done so far and what he's doing now. Well, let the lady take her resignation if she won't clear up the situation in her teaching staff at Belgrade University. And if that doesn't clear up, we'll have political decisions again in the future, subsequent decisions and the subsequent mind of the university. How do we believe in that university and its capacities if we expect things like this to come up again tomorrow? So, please, this is what I wanted and I'm sorry that, and here I always defend that we should talk about, but this is an extraordinary thing for me, and I didn't want to point it out and remind myself that we should look that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64292	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word now has Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64293	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-worker, respected colleagues, the 2020 budget is real and in the given frameworks, indicating that the budgeting of public revenues is carefully planned, its main objective is a balanced distribution of fiscal space, to increasing living standards, i.e. on increasing wages and pensions. Salary by 8% to 15% higher and pensions by 5.4% per Swiss model since New Year's Eve. This, according to the minister, does not endanger macroeconomic stability and it is time for citizens to feel better. The 2020 budget is also realistic in the given frameworks, indicating that budgeting of public revenues is carefully planned. Since my fellow MPs in the debate have not been able to discuss part of the health budget in principle, I will briefly look back on this very important area. The draft budget for sector 18 divided 27, which is health care, defined 32.7 billion dinars, which is 13.828 billion more than for 2019. Almost half of this amount is transferred by the Ministry of Health, RFZO 15.1 billion. The main objective is to improve and preserve the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and the sustainable system of health care. In other words, the aim is to strengthen the nation's health potential and set up users, i.e. patients at the centre of the health care system. The budget of the Ministry of Health covers the following areas, regulation and supervision in the field of health care, preventive health care, quality development and availability of health care, development of the infrastructure of health institutions, support for the exercise of the right to compulsory health insurance, prevention and control of leading and infectious diseases. I would single out certain programming activities, which are prevention health care, i.e. detection and management of risk factors for the development of the disease and early detection of the disease. For these purposes, a billion and 344 million were allocated, which is for 201 million more than in the 2019 budget. Here I must, reminders to mention a very important branch of medicine, which is the health care of a working population, i.e. medicine to which we have unnecessarily reduced importance, and that it has great importance in early detection and prevention of disease, as well as in early detection and prevention of diseases related to work and occupational illness. Any country that takes care of the health of the nation invests in prevention because only a healthy man can contribute to himself and society in general. I would add one suggestion, all praises for the increase in wages, for increasing quality and improving quality of health care, for investing in infrastructure, but this is about standards for the number of doctors per population. The point is to increase the number of doctors in preventive healthcare to the population. The next programme activity is to improve the availability of health care to sensitive groups of the population, as well as to the Roma population. This programme activity includes the implementation of the action plan for improving Roma health from 2018 to 2025 and will be directed to improve the health protection of this population, in terms of prevention, mandatory immunisation, systematic examinations, protection of reproductive health and other activities. I would single out another program activity, which is the health care of people with rare diseases, and for these purposes, 2.4 billion dinars were allocated, which you will agree on much more than in 2019, when 250,000 dinars were singled out. This is proof that the state and how they can show humanity in action. I would also refer to the budget fund for the treatment of disease, condition or injury that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia. This Fund has been established to provide additional resources for these purposes for which the RFO cannot provide funds for payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance. The largest amounts are planned for programme activities, regulation of the health system 10.6 billion, under which the Ministry of Health handles the health care system, compulsory health insurance systems, health insurance rights, professional training and specialisation of healthcare professionals, and in particular the deficiting professions. New activities and projects planned by the draft budget are support for the activities of the bank of reproductive cells, a project to improve radionucleotide therapy and a diagnosis of the improvement of the application of radiation and brahi therapy in Serbia under which the acquisition of equipment for the Institute for Oncology of Serbia, as well as professional education staff, as well as a project of Serbia's anti-cancer activities that will fund the work of this humanitarian organisation to support cancer and public education. Finally, it is not burning to repeat that this 2020 budget is so planned that it allows for a balance between economic growth and raising citizens' living standards, increasing wages and pensions and investing in public investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64294	Thank you, Mrs. Ivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64295	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Marinkovic, let me say that this Budget Law is the most important law this year, and for the next year that will be valid. That he was really made safe, responsible and that he was developmental even though our political opponents in the Alliance for Serbia claim he wasn't. Before we say what this budget is, we should remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what the budgets were before the SNS came to power. In a few sentences, I will only remind the citizens that when the SNS came to power, the budget and the budgets were found, so we say, the Republic of Serbia and the country that was economically, industrialally, completely devastated, the country that was demonized, whose demonization was also attended by representatives of the current Alliance for Serbia, a country with a destroyed military and defence system, a country with too much debt, a country with too much unemployment 26.5%, a country without faith in the future of its citizens, a country without any international reputation, a country in which those in the Alliance for Serbia and Metohija gave up as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and a country in which the health system was estimated by European officials the worst in Europe. I now have something specific, Mr. Vice President, to say who is responsible for the name and last name and how much in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia. Let me say that one of the main culprits is why the budget is not larger, Dragan Gilas, head of the Alliance for Serbia, in a nation called the Giki Mafia, which entered politics as a common "gologous", and came out of politics as a leadership figure with 618 million and thus damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget. Vuk Jeremic, a people known as the Wolf descendant, otherwise a member of a criminal international gang of thieves and fraud, damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by several tens of thousands of euros. Dr. Janko Veselinović, in a people known as Janko "stanocrat", is famous for stealing the apartment of Professor Milica Badzi in Obrovec, Kurjakovic's 7 brothers and for having to support us in quotes, this teacher, for twenty years, damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Dusan Petrovic, called Dule "cow-killer", or 10%, because during the time he was Minister of Agriculture, he gave only one year to slaughter 250,000 cows from the 500,000 total fund that the state of Serbia had at that time. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he further damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia because at the end of June 2012, after the lost budget elections, he paid 8.5 million dinars in June to create a water management plan. No less or less finished the 8.5 million election. It is the one who gives support to Zelenovic, who goes and muds Serbia's state outside our country's borders daily. The next order that damaged the Republic of Serbia is Marinika Tepic, known as the "Flying Dove", and known in the people alone, along with two distinct things. The first thing is that he lays down in one political party at night, and in the morning he wakes up in another political party. Secondly, she committed embezzlement at the Department of Physical Culture, while she was the province's secretary and damaged the province's and state's budget, the state of Serbia. The next on the list is Bosko Obradovic, called "the ball". Why the "slut"? The people call him, they ask him all the time, the citizens call him, they meet him, and they ask him why he keeps banging. I replied, he's a professor of Serbian language, he invented probably the eighth fall of "stupid," because it's really goofy every day. What did this man do? He raided the RIK and attacked members of the RIK. He raided the municipality of Pećinci, attacked the president of the Serbian Parliament's Administrative Board, Dr. Aleksandra Martinovic and beat him with a mouse and damaged the budget and thus, raided the cabinet of presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Maja Gojkovic, raided a police station in Guca, committed an attack on journalist "Pink", attempted to invade REM, sought to believe or not shoot the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The attempt, an incursion into the building of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, asked the Serbian Army to carry out a coup in Serbia. He made a break-in into the RTS building with the saws. He broke into the So Gornji Milanovac building, where he was kicked out of the building, otherwise he would have damaged more of the Republic of Serbia's budget. He threatened President Wolfie with a slap. Finally, on November 19, 2019, he said, I will now quote: "Wolves must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States to survive. That is why it is now the right time to intensify the attacks on him from all weapons." Do you need, respected citizens, to explain what these Alliance for Serbia are doing every day? They don't care about the election. They are interested in the destruction of the Republic of Serbia. The seventh on the list is Milojko Pantic, who daily muds the president of the Republic, the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the people known as "mad" or "spicture". Pantic is dead drunk, driving a car, causing an accident on Brank's bridge. That hero escaped from the scene and drove in the opposite direction. Normally, he was arrested by our police and taken to the police station for rinsation. That's why he accused her. Guess who? No one but Alexander Wolfie. You didn't believe it, respected citizens, to me when I said, there's a year, that Milojko Pantic is a drink. Now, after this incident, it really is, and those who know it, it's really just one piece of shit. Next on the list that damages Serbia's budget is Sergei Trifunovic, in a people known as "Sergey Pisa". He said he would piss on President Aleksandar Vukic's grave. The man damaged Serbia's budget with his NGO. That I don't deal with him very much, just to quote his colleague Biljana Srbanovic called "cocainovic": "The unpunished lying Sergei, that's the leader of the protest, always the insidious liar, always licking on me, was the gold medal in getting in the ass, always lying, always stinking, always picking on money, eating, drinking, never washing, and always cheating on his colleagues." It's a finished quote. There's really no need to talk about him anymore. Milojic Radoslav Kena, in a people called "Kena Pirpi", has damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of his municipality Smederjevska Palanka. The People's Messenger is in this high house, and you can see he's gone and never comes. He was president of So Palanca. He illegally spent out of the municipality's budget, as president of the municipality, on beer 457,710 dinars, only in 2016. At the Atrium cafe, he spent 110,800 dinars on coffee, beer... (President: Comrade Atlagic, please excuse me, I ask the MPs to turn off that music, it makes no sense, we are not in the pub, but we are in the esteemed home of the National Assembly. )......................................................................................................... in a coffee shop from the budget... (President: Okay, everyone has the right to say what they want, but that doesn't mean we can play music now, throw each other's papers. It doesn't make sense. They can't distract me, they can play as much music as they want. He illegally spent out of the Smederevska Palanka municipality budget 457,710 dinars per beer. At the Atrium cafe spent 110,800 dinars, on coffee and beer, from the county budget. And 15. On May 05, 2016, he spent extra on beer 139,850 dinars and thus damaged the budget and pockets, respected citizens, yours. Not yet in Smederjevska Palanca deleted the graphite that the citizens wrote to him, and I'll quote him, "The truth is alive, there's no beer in Palanca, there's only foam left, there's yellow Ken. And the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it. The one who drinks the bar, the budget pays everything, I'm the yellow Ken, from the Glibovac. "Dran Sutanovac, in a people called "grabovac", damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget with only one transaction, with one who criticises us every night on TV screens, which is that former Governor Soskic, with only one transaction, with 260 million dinars. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the state auditor says. Zoran Zivkovic, known as the farmer in the attempt. What about him, how did he damage the Republic's budget? Only one figure -- the former prime minister of the government damaged the Republic's budget by 536,000 euros on the basis of only one subsidy, which he raised for vineyards. And instead of making vineyards, he was plowing the vine on the grass. His work is well known. Boris Tadic, called "lipicaner" for six months, while he was president of the state, damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by spending more than 40m dinars than Tomislav Nikolic in the same period. That's how they spent what our people would say -- the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that's why they're attacking Sinisha Mali today. Nenad Canak, called in the people of the "Nesha Gicoje", said he would advocate recognition of an independent Kosovo as a presidential candidate. Cedomir Jovanovic, called Ceda Duvanovic, has, on various grounds, damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by several thousand tonnes of wheat. Velimir Ilic, a.k.a. "Stealing Director", what about him? You remember when he spoke - steal a little bit, and today he's the main critic of us here, because we take care of every dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Dusan Teodorovic, here he is, an academic, called the "headquake". You saw him on TV last night. He's shaking, I'll show, this is how his head shakes when SNS and the president of the state, Alexander Vukic. And that's why the people say -- here's the academics of the earthquake. What about him? It's a man who fled from Serbia to America during the bombing, to the CIA schooling, came back after two years, so he could do what he was doing. Otherwise, he's been evicted from the Traffic College because of unemployment and irresponsibility. Next up, the 17th in a row is Professor Dr. Rade Veljanovski, among professors called "Eggs Work". Why? Because he damaged in various ways the budget and every university and the state of Serbia, because he was working on his doctorate. Professor Ognjen Radonjic, look at the wonders of this, I'm surprised at Professor Rabbit who he took as an assistant. Radonjica? "Professor of torture." I was talking about him at the last session because, according to one of his students, he has a pathological need to humiliate a student. Even the information officer asked for student grades, and he couldn't get to them. Today he leads the protests and spits on us in magazines, honest people. It's one of the bad guys from the professor. If he was a professor, he wouldn't be doing it to his students. Professor Dr. Jovo Bakic, for the third time a doctor, called "shithead," because he said, quote, to explain here... (President: Professor, if you can just refrain from those terms. We don't have to go here. Thank you. Let's explain, Vice President. He said of Alexander Vukic, and I quote, "he's an asshole, Angela Merkel." It's a finished quote. Why, Mr. Vice President, have you never, or anyone, wondered why he's telling the president of the state, and when I quote him, then you and the press are warning me? Is it true, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Is it true, respected citizens of Serbia? That's right. Never a journalist, never a politician from the Alliance for Serbia objected to him. And when I said just what would happen if I said he was a piece of shit, and the asshole doesn't mean what you think, Vice President, that means "unreasonable man." Take a look at Professor Petrovic's book, "Serbian Speaks in Vojvodina" in four volumes, so you will see what it means. I don't do anything, and I don't insult people like you. Zoran Lutovac, called in the people "the stray," because citizens tell him - strayed into politics, here, his party broke up again yesterday. Balša Bozovic, a gourad pirate from Maldives. The one from Maldives flies around all the time, but certainly not from his own money. He was well fed while at the Belgrade city level. Goran Markovic, 22, on the list, called "bumbar" in the people. What do you say about him every day when he defiles the president of the state and the honourable MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The only thing I can recommend to him is what I recommended to him, that all the vomit he told us to frame and put in his living room and remind himself of the level of civilization culture. Bojan Pajtic, in a nation called "a relative". Why? While he was president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, he also hired a 20th knee. I'm not saying it again, gentlemen of the press, that you don't think I'm saying it, and damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the province of Vojvodina, says Goran Jesic. Here, I will quote him: “The Boyan Pajtic employed in the Executive Greater Aunts, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, sisters, wives and godmothers. ” It's a finished quote. He adds, quotes: "From 670 executive staff, he increased his relatives to 2,700". It's a finished quote. That's what Goran Jesic says. I didn't say that, and I'm known to be called. At the end of the bay Sanda Rasković Ivić, called "bundasica". Why, the sparrows know that, too, and to say what it damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia while it was in the Commissioner for Refugees. She spent enormously. She spent half a million dollars on crazy stuff somewhere. That woman said there was genocide in Srebrenica, which is not true. No relevant Western explorer, I can count 60 of them now, has confirmed it. Secondly, she also said that "Storm" is a humanitarian action twice on HRT. Dear citizens, not only did she lie, but she lies every day. Here, let me remind you what she lied to 5.11. in this high house here at a session in 2018, at 13 o'clock and 33 minutes. She said at the announcement of the award of Alexander Vukic by Vladimir Vladimirović Putin, I quote, here, in her stenogram, she said, "It's a lie, there's nothing out of it." It's a finished quote. The truth is that Alexander Vucic has won the greatest medal. After Nikola Pasic, I don't think anyone's got it. If there were a little morale, a MP, a professor's, a human, would come to this High House, it would stand against us to apologize, not to us, not to Alexander Vukic, but to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me in the end, colleague Tomic told me about Professor Trebeshanin. Please don't talk about him. The man did not go down from television screens for four, five years, muddying the state and cooperated with those who robbed the Republic of Serbia's seven-year budget and with some psychologically his so-called. "Frasama". That man has no shame, no morals. He said last night, if you heard about Vacic, he says - Vacic shouldn't, what some Vacic, I don't know who this Vacic is, that he told Zelenovic that he should swim by some river, whether, but, he says, someone can be found, so do it. I ask, dear Professor Trebishanin, what do you think no one is following you? Well, every sentence of yours, I have 12 years on television screens. I ask you why you did not reprove your colleague at the Faculty of Jovo Bakic, who said that we would swim in the Sava and the Danube, as the Ustashas spoke from 1941 to 1945? Did you warn him? Did you think there were no "mads" who would try to carry out some dishonest actions and the president of the state and the MPs of the SNS and the coalition partners of ours, etc? So, to see the duplicity of morality. In the end, I will end up with this sentence, Your Honor, Vice President, very important to the state of Serbia. Not one... You shouldn't have come, you come once a year, Guric. No German intellectual, no German journalist or publicist will ever work to harm his own people and state. He will never say anything ugly about them, says one German to one of our Serbs -- some Serbian intellectuals, politicians and journalists, with a wave of opposition party activists, now the Alliance for Serbia, come in this case to Germany, but also other European countries, whether, Western countries, and propagate anti-Serbian stances under a firm of democracy and liberation from dictatorship. It's a finished quote. What does it remind you of, dear citizens, of you who remember? That was October 5th. It's on the stage now, the walking ones. The same people, the same words in this Assembly, both on the street and on TV screens. They don't care about anything but the street. That's what academic Vane Teodorovic says, you heard him last night - just the street and the crash of the street. Dear Members of Parliament, can you believe that's what the professor of the university and the academic says? Well, to political parties, who defends him, then act politically. In the end, there's only one sentence about the Ph.D. I'll have a special call about it in the next few days. Let me just say one sentence, which is that it's a purely political thing. Mr. Minister, be brave, be patient, justice is on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64296	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Now the word has been given by the MP general. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64297	Dear gentlemen, I would like to point out one moment that is very important for the budget, which is that the budget will be made before 1 December. It's a great success and a minister, both the government and the president of the Republic. When did we get the budget before December 1st? Why did we bring it in on time? Because Serbia is going safely, because we are increasing pensions and salaries. Why did we increase so much? Because we're going to increase next year. Why no one says that seven ministries received fewer amounts than in 2019, that the President of the Republic received 0.3% less, that the government received 4.2% less, that you in the Ministry of Finance received 11.2% less than the funds you received in 2019. About the salary. Not every salary increase will increase personal investment in GDP. She wants this one now. Why? They got an increase in people who'd get all that money, more than 90% back in the budget. That's what you need to say. Of course, pensioners are always there and there's no need to open a budget debate until this table you've given here is seen. I also entered here in 2018. There's also the year 2019. It clearly shows a positive trend in which we are going. So these salaries are welcome and they're a guarantee that next year they'll be bigger. So, what's the big deal? To keep paying and pensions on time and getting bigger every year. About direct investment, I'm the first to have more domestic direct investment. I'm about to be gross national income, not to be gross domestic. What's this about? We have to cover the current account deficit at this point. We do not have the opportunity for domestic direct investment and therefore we must cover it with direct investment from abroad. Here, it says here that the current account deficit is 5.3% of GDP, and that direct investment will be 6.3%. This 1% difference says we're going the right way and this had to be. Further what I want to talk about are colleges. The colleges received more funding, and so did the minister, rather than something about additional revenues. The Ministry of State, the Ministry of Finance, must help colleges to have as much extra income as possible, as higher supplementary income creates conditions for teachers to have higher salaries, to make a better standard, to make students study more easily, etc., only that additional income must be visible. It must be registered and shown in the final account. If they don't, there are mechanisms that will make them do it. So, we stand for it -- the more additional income, the more standard, the better standard. In the end, it is unthinkable for me as an educational worker to, say, a journalist, an analyst three or four times make grammatical mistakes and say "saving, saving, saving", how many times he said "saving", I experienced it as a blow to the head. Journalists, learn, it's not "save" but "saves", because this is what students, students, etc. listen to. That's your profession, you're a TV face. You take this criticism well-intentioned. Take the grammar and listen to it for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64298	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The First Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64299	It is important to continue with the topic of budgeting higher education. In that regard, I'd like to pay attention to two things. So for a long time, it has been announced that laws or legal arrangements are being passed to fund universities, i.e. higher education institutions. I'm afraid we're very late and we're actually helping with the lack of that law to have a kind of black or gray area. It doesn't make any sense, and we can't just end up being satisfied with the number and say, this year is more, so much and so much we've given. This is the good side of this story with regard to the government's will to finance education and to increase budget revenues for education, but not to have full control of these funds, to have no reports, to have no feedback, people, it's the introduction of the wild, and it destroys the overall quality. I repeat, I'm not for extra funds. Additional funds at a public institution must be legalised. They're used to buying assistants, associates, making most of the tips and bodies, and that's dangerous. We can't go through with it. Then, the issue of the Law on Belgrade University as a national university, because by amending the Law on Higher Education, we adopted, therefore, the attitude to isolate the university, but we cannot remain on it. The state has no organised university, generally, especially Belgrade University. What's happening to us since these rebel actions at the university, especially at that university, are very bad signs. If this, with this reckoning, with the government and the finance minister, goes lightly, gentlemen, it's an announcement of a much stronger blow. Remember, don't underestimate it. Either they will you or you will them. Don't underestimate that fire. A small fire and a small disease are never underestimated, because if you underestimate them, they become both a great disease and a great fire very quickly. This is not where discussions should go about who loves the minister, who is for him, who better to commend him. These are symptoms of systemic disease and we should not be dealing specifically with this topic, but with the topic of installations that are in very poor condition, and from such installations fires are easy to plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64300	Before I give my word to Goran Kovacev, I would like to agree to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform the People's MPs that the National Assembly will work after 1800 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session. Mr. Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64301	Certainly, the issue that has been raised in the context of the amendments is very important for the functioning of the education system in Serbia, and I would like the public and Mr. Minister, in principle, to get to know all of this and to discuss the budget with concrete facts what funding in figures looks like. The own income of the economic classification of 0.4 higher education is 13 billion 291 million. Of that amount, Mr. Minister, more than 82% goes to salaries and personal incomes of employees at Belgrade University. Only 2% is leaving for equipment and real estate separation. Now we're coming up with a key indicator. The state audit institution, and these are DRI data, says 95% of its own revenue of 13 billion is actually tuition. So much for the economic and transparent business of the university on the market. Only 5% of their own incomes are due to their work, 95% by tuition and monopoly. In fact, Mr. Minister, fiscal revenues, that is, fiscal expenditure for people who pay that tuition, obligations, denied from the state of Serbia, and now we come to the key data, 48 to 86% of these own revenues, according to the DRI report, are going to pay and receive employees at the University. If you have 82% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and up to 86% of your own income for staff expenditure, that's why we have 2 to 2.5% of the investment in real estate equipment. What's more tragic? We as MPs, the Committee on Budgets, for four years now, and based on the DRI report, we cannot obtain information as to how the funds stemming from our own incomes are spent. We don't have names, we don't have economic classifications, we don't have end-users in the vault. Who's got the resources? This does not say in the economic order of the area of education, it says that in the field of education, regardless of the political attitudes, purely financial, we have a total destruction, which is more or less due to the functioning of the state in the field of education, without competition, in any area where you have no competition and you do not have the right to free choice. In the end, you have a monopoly. The high education monopoly ends up in the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. in fiscal publications, which are not suitable through scholarships for Serbian citizens. That is why, Mr. Minister, it is necessary, in accordance with the Law on Changes to the Budgetary System that you announced for the next year and the Law on the Finance of Higher Education, announced by Minister Sarcevic, to demonopolise the system of funding for higher education, in order for Serbia to have a better quality and better education, and thus also a better workforce.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64302	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64303	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker, the town of Leskovac is significantly working on promotion and economic growth, and the main prerequisite for this is arranged traffic. Since the SNS, with its coalition partners, assumed responsibility for managing the city, Leskovac has so far received 40,000 metres of new traffic and 740 million dinars have been allocated for this purpose. We are especially proud that we have begun to turn the dream of a large number of our fellow citizens into a public one. Last week, it started with the construction of the city's central square, and the residents of Leskovci will receive a new multi-functional place of gathering and the town's marking in 360 days. This capital investment is worth 223 million dinars. A significant investment that gave our city a better look and contributed to better functioning is the construction of a new market, into which we invested over 120 million dinars. Then, the complete reconstruction of the Centre for Social Labour, worth 44 million dinars, as well as the reconstruction of the multi-purpose hall "Partizan" in which more than 70 million dinars were invested. The project "e-parliament" implemented in the previous year by the UNDP, which invested 182,000 euros and thanks to it, is becoming more transparent, faster and faster. The priority of the town of Leskovec in the next period is to create new jobs. This aims to plan to continue the development of the "green zone". The plan for this area of the city is the municipal-infrastructure equipment "green zone", and this investment is worth over 100 million dinars. Also planned is the realisation of a public private partnership for public lighting, which will enable the replacement of lighting in the territory of the entire city, the city and all 144 inhabited cities and the placing of new ice lamps, which will lead to savings in the city and allow for better and more modern lighting of the city. The project is worth a billion and a hundred million dinars. Traffic infrastructure is one of the actors in local community development. What we are planning and not going to give up on is certainly building a bypass, i.e. Bulevar Nikola Pasic, by reconstructing the road to Bojnik. The town of Leskovac also has excellent co-operation with the Public Investment Management Office, through which numerous projects have been implemented and will only be implemented. After 70 years, the Office for Infectious Diseases has had a complete reconstruction for which the Office for Public Investment Management has singled out 46 million dinars, while 62.2 million dinars have dedicated the reconstruction of an institution for adults and older ones. The oldest elementary school in our city's territory, Josif Kostic, passed through the first 70 million dinar reconstruction phase after 165 years, while with the second phase, 60 million dinars and students will be in one of the most modern schools in our area. With the help of the Public Investment Management Office, this year we started a reconstruction of the hospital's main building. The value of this investment is 21m euros. The President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, also visited the initial reconstruction papers. On the same visit, President Vukic visited the city stadium, where a new facility worth 20m euros will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64304	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64305	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, agriculture. Belgrade University, only Belgrade University received more than last year, 7 or 8%. He's got 820 million more. Agriculture, at first sight, got less. Now it looks like it's got to be for this rector. She's a little bit of an icy, and that's where she has to be added, and when you add it, she doesn't admit it. What are you laughing at? It's just like that Five. When you add it to it, they say you didn't add it. He's rebelling, Dragan Gilas. I was expecting from Dragan Gilas, a fellow farmer, since he bought 25 acres of work overnight, somewhere in Sikulam near Negotin. It took my family 60 years to buy it. It took him 60 seconds. So, I expected Dragan Gilas to ask for agriculture, but apparently this rector is fond of him, apparently she is highly positioned in his movement, as Anasonović herself says, or as the leader of the protest is already called. I asked for more for agriculture, three billion. When she can get 820 million just for Belgrade University, why don't we get three billion for all of Serbia's agriculture? I may have asked for more, but it's my custom, I live in the country, I know how to torture farmers, and so I asked for those three billion to be put into rural development for the purchase of breeding cattle. It's that tie they pulled, these exes that don't come to the session right now. I wanted to invest it in the supply of breeding throats, because we are mostly engaged in exporting agricultural products, cereals. We have 0.33 throats per hectare. If we had a European average, one throat per hectare, to export meat, milk, eggs instead of plant production, we would have three million more conditional throats, which is three billion each year. It's been processed, not in the final degree of processing, that would be worth six billion. For cereals, corn, barley, soybean products, for cattle flour, we receive only 800m euros annually by exporting. These 800m euros, we have invested these grains in the livestock production of other countries, and our stock fund is minimal. That's why I wanted us to renew the stock fund and in this way get our cattlemen, that our processors, who work with 30% capacity, say, slaughterhouses, get raw materials and that's how we process Serbia's economy. Let me just tell you that every pig produced in the Martins, produced in Lakarka, produced in Srem, only three villages around Sremska Mitrovica sometimes have a production and production of 200,000 pieces. Every thermo-processed pig gives a larger social product than one Fiat. So, from the hoof to the final product, it's all from Serbia, that the total production, the total amount of waste on domestic production, and that's why every processed pig in Serbia is worth more than one Fiat from Kragujevac, which is so much talkable and written. That's why my proposal was that what agriculture gets, and not getting a little bit, I admit it, is now being amended by Mr. Martinovic for another 720 million, which I commend, I wanted to get another three billion, but I also have to tell the farmers that regardless of this amount, all the requests for the incentive of subsidies that are in accordance with the law to be filed will be paid, and if the figure is planned to break through, that the state will pay and that the more it is spent on subsidies in agriculture. I want to thank you for what we have received, and I believe that this year, and in particular, we will get far more and we will raise the stock that these have ruined and thus invest our plant production in the production of meat, milk and eggs and increase GDP from domestic livestock, domestic plant production, where everything we export and produce will be the income of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64306	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64307	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we could from the amendment promoters to hear it, but we heard that from you, Mr. Minister, in the principle debate, and I will refer to the previous speaker, so Dragan Gilas, during his term as mayor, had private firms that earned more than 600m euros, and only the net profit, or the one he showed, was 105m euros. He left a record deficit in Belgrade's budget, nearly 20% and a total debt of 1.2 billion euros. You will agree that it is suspicious that his personal property, private property, was growing while the property, or budget of the city of Belgrade, was devastated. And now Dragan Gilas is taking this opportunity that we in the Assembly are discussing the most important law for our citizens and somewhere on the side, on the street or in various press conferences is making remarks. I will remind you that his borrowing was high, that the interest was 7.25%, and our borrowing interest is about 1.5%, so five times more favourable for the budget and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We thus saved 4.4 billion dinars on interest only by refinanced the expensive debts left until 2011. And that's another reason why we need to accept this budget that's ahead of us and we need to do it. But we need to hear what we did. We have also heard in the debate so far that budget policy in 2020 will mark the growth of standards in terms of salary and pension increases, in terms of new investment for infrastructure, for economy, for bridges, roads, railways, for new schools, for new kindergartens. When it comes to the intention to speed up economic growth, it should be said that public investments in 2019 amounted to 220 billion dinars, and in this proposal the figure was increased even to 260 billion dinars, nearly 10 billion dinars for foreign investment incentives. This year, so 2019, we have 43% more investment than last year, and over the past five years, 320km of highways have been built and the strategy will continue in the future. Further investments in water and sewerage networks, waste water treatment plants, etc. are planned. What I want to stay on for a short time is part of the budget relating to the Ministry of Justice, namely investment activities of the Administration for the implementation of criminal sanctions in 2018 and 2019. I don't want to talk too wide about it, but I just want to list the cities that marked investment activities. So, in 2018, it was Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica, Požarec, Leskovac, Pančevo. In 2019, investment activities were in Pozarevc, Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade, Leskovac, Kragujevac. From IPA 2015 projects received vehicles and computer equipment for offices for the enforcement of extracurricular sanctions on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A project has been launched to extend the system for the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures with electronic supervision, etc. What I would like to single out, as some of the new items that we can see in the proposal of the 2020 Financial Plan, are certainly project-technical documentation for new objects and for objects to be reconstructed. I would single out the building of the closed-type accommodation facilities and the construction and equipment of a new prison in Kruševec. I believe that this budget, which we are only discussing today in particular, should be supported, because it is developmental, because it shows us that it is well balanced, and in terms of cost-income planning. Our government was able to propose a budget like this, precisely because of the successful reforms carried out during the past period that were difficult, but which apparently yielded results. We created the conditions so that we can say that the 2020 budget will be developed and that we will be able to continue working to improve the living standards of our citizens. Now we will have money to invest in some things that we didn't really have money for before, to invest in infrastructure, but also to invest in education, in the profession, in knowledge, because next year I will remind you, the opening of four major scientific and technological parks, six entrepreneurship centres and the realization of many more projects that will show us that we are on a good track to stand side by side with the most developed countries. Therefore, I will repeat that this budget will be supported by SNS MPs in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64308	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now, the word has been given by MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64309	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to give my support to the amendment promoter, because I believe that this amendment brings a lot to Serbia in the long term. I just had a chance to talk more closely to Mr. Risticevic about the amendment. So, it's not, Mr. Risticevic, ever enough and never much for agriculture. You asked to single out three billion, and by subsidising 50,000 throats, you would receive 75m euros in the long term each year. I will personally support your amendment and Mr Martinovic's amendment, which is scheduled to raise the amount proposed by the budget by 420 million for rural development, for one simple reason, because we believe agriculture is Serbia's real development opportunity. Mr. Minister, I have called for a few more reasons, and I would first of all like to address you in the follow-up and, Chairman, I will use the time of the president of the parliamentary group. Mr. Minister, we heard during today that some groupings, I don't know if they're political or non-governmental or what to call them, will make it impossible for you to enter the finance ministry building anymore. According to the media, it will put a lock on the Ministry of Finance's parentheses. It may be possible, but they forget one thing, democracy in Serbia is accomplished only in one way, and it is in the elections. Only elections can change Serbia's political course. Serbia is a free and democratic state, in which everyone has the right to protest and thus express his legitimate political position on different issues. As long as these protests are still, until they threaten the right of another and what is fundamentally important, until they threaten the functioning of the state. Finally, a few days ago, we received an answer to the question - do we have civil or political protests in Serbia, although we knew very well that political protests were involved, although we knew very well who was behind these protests. This is what counterpart Markovic was talking about at the beginning of the assembly session today, but you know, Mr. Minister, political protests are expected to answer some key questions today in Serbia. If the answers to these key questions by that part of the opposition are threats, violence, conflicts, then it cannot be defined as political protests, but rather as violent, violent behavior, primitiveism, and it must not and cannot become the basic norm and modality of social behaviour in Serbia. What we insist on as a parliamentary club, if indeed it is true, if the announcements that someone will block, close the finance ministry building, we expect it to not become a norm of social behaviour in Serbia, we expect a reaction from competent authorities and competent institutions. You've been in the O.R. today, and you haven't had a chance to hear that part of the opposition address, with all due respect to my colleagues, I don't mean you, I mean part of the opposition that hasn't been involved in the work of parliament for a very long time, and again some story about freedom of the media. Imagine, a tragic situation, about the freedom of the media talking about someone who at the press conference again today says they will arrest the editors-in-chief and the owners of commercial television with national frequency and the main and responsible editors of individual newspapers. These same, I'll remind you, have physically pissed on journalists for one simple reason, because journalists don't think the same as they do, they ask them questions they don't have answers and they're the same, before a certain period of time, very clearly in the camera at the press conference, they said, yes, we'll close your commercial television if we're on the chance. You're the same one with the full rights of media freedom and today they're talking about freedom of the media. Not in Serbia will repeat history in its worst form when all the media in Serbia had to write and think alike, but there is a single pressure from one part of the opposition that in continuity wants to deal with editorial media policy, and that is what you are, you know, moaning about media in the media. We are not representatives of thesis - if we are present in the media, the media scene is good, that if we are not in the media, that media scene is bad. A strategy on media privatisation, I think, was passed after 2000. Gentlemen, you wanted capitalism, you got capitalism. Where today's need to deal with the private sector in the media area? We have no intention of dealing with the editorial policy of the media, we support everything that is European standards, which means European standards, but we have no intention of dealing with what messages the political parties will send during the pre-election campaign, but one thing is evident. The fact that someone has 50% or 60% of their support, and someone's struggling to get to those famous 5%, that's not our problem. We cannot help them to increase and strengthen their ratings and support among citizens. By the way, I don't want to advise them for free, but I think what they're doing is wrong. Fabricating some affairs, where they want to discredit the president of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is not a way to reach short-term, let alone long-term political points. I remind you that this, Mr. Markovic calculated it, on the 329th day that one part of the opposition does not participate in parliament's work. Very often, there is a question of responsibility today. Does he have their responsibilities? You know how, legitimately, it is the right whether they will participate or not, but whether they have justified the absence from the session as clearly and precisely defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which has just defined the majority sitting in that and such Alliance for Serbia. Is this a responsible and serious attitude towards citizens who have given them confidence in the elections? I guess we as legitimately elected representatives of citizens, I guess it is our duty to sit in a parliament that is the voice of the people to discuss alternatives to how to reach the most qualitative legislative proposals that will be in the best interest of Serbian citizens. We have spoken more than once - you know Serbian citizens whether they work in the public or private sector if they don't come to work it reflects on their material status and do not justify their absence. Allow me, the same must apply to MPs because we are citizens of Serbia. There are no first and second-class citizens here. In all of this, our message is clear to them. If you have a program, and you definitely don't have it, which is in the interest of citizens, if you have people who recognize and whose work they value, then what are the conditions, then what is the boycott of parliament, then what is the announced boycott of the election? Only a few months ago in that same assembly hall we listened to – we want extraordinary parliamentary elections. There were no conditions at that time, there were no demands at that time because they felt they could be an alternative to the ruling coalition. When they realized not that they couldn't represent an alternative, but that they couldn't politically survive some next election cycle in Serbia, then they got a better idea of some new political flosscule, which is a boycott of the election. As for what we've been talking about today and what we've been talking about for a few days now, Mr. Minister, I'm going to repeat our position. We've talked about it very openly, very clearly and precisely in public, and I'm going to say it today in the tide. So, not by assessing the work of the Belgrade University Council when deciding on your doctoral dissertation, but still, many issues remain open, a dilemma to which the public expects an answer. If the University Council's decision is behind, and it definitely stands, one political option and one part of the opposition, then it's about one unscrupulous horrible campaign against you and that has an attempt and goal of your own personal and professional discredition. Given the indisputable professional references of yours, as well as the proven results of your work, and especially the results you achieve as finance minister, where your professionalism and expertise have reached one, in our opinion, full capacity indeed is surprising that you qualify as someone who has plagiarized doctoral dissertation. In addition, your proven value in professional terms stems from the indisputable fact that your education, professional training has been impressively evaluated and evaluated by the highest professional relevant institutions coming from the area of economy and finance. This means that you can certainly not be someone who can in any case challenge the expertise, the professional potential that makes it difficult for the aprioriers to accept a decision on the alleged plagiarization of a doctorate. The impression is that in one part of the public opinion far before the Council's decision was made, your doctoral dissertation is a plagiarism. That's right. In that sense, you cannot avoid the influence of the very part of that public opinion, precisely the part of the opposition when deciding on your doctoral dissertation. I want once again to be absolutely clear and precise to say, Mr Minister, both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have our full support and we are very happy to talk to you here, because we know that you are always coming with positive economic and financial indicators and that, together with the whole Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Serbia, you are working in the best interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64310	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Now I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in this debate, we have indeed heard a lot of things that may not have been too much to do with the draft budget law and these amendments, but good. That's not so bad, but let's remind ourselves of the day when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic explained the draft budget, her first line was to provide further increases in this budget, investment in infrastructure. Indeed, it would be normal to say – that it is good and we think it is good to invest in infrastructure and we think it is good and what has been invested so far, but when we put in certain remarks you are then banalizing what we say. Then you say you're against capital investments, you're against infrastructure, you're against highways, etc. No, we're not. We are just for every single dollar in the budget to be spent fairly and that it must be spent really for the purpose that is budgeted and envisaged. When we talked to you about "Bechtel" and about the budget, without a trace of 300m euros, you even said that day that you didn't know who was going to work part of the highway from Preljina to Pojat, you denied even if by law, that lex specialis actually predicted that Bechtel was the only one who could compete. It's not written like that, but the conditions that are meant to talk about it. So then the news came out the other day that it was not certain that the contract would be 800m euros, because Bechtel seems to have some additional demands, because in the memorandum that Zorana Mihajlovic, Scott and Bechtela signed in the government of the Republic of Serbia, they did not foresee all these future jobs. This morning it was on the news that a deal was expected to be concluded these days. I just want to draw your attention so you don't fly too far. Yet you are obviously not informed enough, you MPs of power, and then you defend an insecure thing. Today when you were talking about Minister Sinisha Malom there was no, what, fifteen days, maybe twenty, when you were jumping here, defending that Ivanka Popovic, is that what this lady who's the rector is called, because she's being attacked there by these so-called. Students of the Alliance of Change. Well, you're on her side, and she's the poor one with the pressures, etc. And then you help her send your same students as those of the Alliance for Change, and when Ivanka Popovic turned the turkey upside down, when she turned her back on you, now all the worst about her. Now, I see, the current Anasonović woman. Now it's very important what she says, and when in a few days it turns out that Anasonovica hasn't changed anything in her attitudes except that she's going to show up in some other aggregate state, then you're going to jump back to everything she says. So don't say that. If you're defending anything, be consistent. What other objections do we have on these infrastructure investments? For us Serbian radicals, it is absolutely unacceptable that the guaranteed deadline for the highway is two years. I guess there's no such thing in the world. Well, my people, it's been two years. So, in that sense, we have objections, not what's being built, but what you're not doing seriously. Also, I'll say something about health care. You also said how much health care funds are foreseen and that it is investing and that it has not been disputed, clinical centres have been done, so you invest, in buildings, in buildings, you invest in equipment, but you don't invest in personnel. Why is that? Because when it's invested in buildings, equipment, etc. Then someone can fit in there, then certain material effects can be realized, and when you invest in human beings, then you can't. We asked you and now we repeat, because the answer to the question we didn't get -- how can it be in the state of Serbia, let's say the university professor, a specialist doctor who works in his primary position, has three times the salary at Belgrade University, but has it at the University of Novi Sad. It's something that's absolutely out of sound logic. Then you promised professors from Novi Sad that you would align their profits with these Belgrade professors, by reducing them in Belgrade, to increase them. Otherwise, the New Sad professors of the Medical Faculty receive 30,000 fees for university work, while Belgrade's 90,000 and instead of equating them by equating them with Belgrade's, you're doing it by reducing these, these little things to raise, and you're still making a dissatisfaction with doctors. By the way, of course, it's not on the way, but very important, it's inadmissible to continue among the unemployed even though you boast that the rate is only 10%, there is a doctor. There are still doctors, there are still specialists who are registered as unemployed persons, which is really absolutely unacceptable about us from the SRS. Where does the money go, like health care? I'll remind you, on June 26th, Alexander Vukic at the opening of one of the facilities said that 20% of the budget allocated to health care goes to no one knows where. Here's what I'm quoting -- God's father doesn't know where that money went because there's no good control. And here's the word, "Wucic" -- now, to kill me, I don't know what 20% of the health budget was spent on. That's the kind of thing we're interested in. We are also against such things, and we expect the Ministers and Prime Minister to answer that question. The easiest thing, as a coworker in the afternoon earlier said -- military pensions ended in Strasbourg, shame on them, those who led to military pensions being settled in Strasbourg. And what about those pensions that ended up civil in Strasbourg? I mean, a lot of pensioners who turned to Strasbourg because you didn't pay them back those pensions they took for four years. Is it, then, true for you, or for these actual ones, whether it is right for you or for them to be ashamed? I guess you have the same arches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64313	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64314	I thank you, Your Honor. I would say by amendment, specifically about this Budget Law and all the things they've been saying since we're witnessing that this budget that we're talking about right now is a developmental budget, where we're giving opportunity to all those segments that matter to our Serbia. When we talk about infrastructure in particular now, a big deal for all of us that will be done and all those projects that are started, specifically about building a railway, building roads, highways, and that's what happens to me as a MP, representative and president of the USS, are going to be important because it will be built, and in southeast Serbia, it will have great opportunities to continue working, to work in small areas of state roads and some local roads that will be able to function more easily. On the other hand, a big deal for all of us both in southeastern Serbia and in all of Serbia, for all of us living in the country and in the village, which will have the opportunity to continue investing in agriculture. By what I have always said and sought, and I hope that we will have both opportunities and next year to achieve, that different values of municipalities that are undeveloped type, that in these municipalities are more isolated, that the rules change for the benefit of all our people living in southeastern Serbia in our rural areas, and that I have received assurances from the competent agriculture ministry, this will be done. They will be ranked differently, the entire territory of the municipality undeveloped, i.e. with difficult living conditions, some villages so far. Something else that would speak for me as a man is very important that the essence of all of us is progress, natality, birth and this budget is put in place, and it would say something very important to me, because now there will be an increase in funds within the budget, it is overlooked, funds for financial assistance to families, by asking the competent minister, as well as the Government to come in the framework of the law that needs to come after the adoption of the budget, that these laws make it more possible for people living in our villages, for people living in undeveloped mountainous areas, in municipalities, to provide these families with at least 50% more compensation, financial assistance. If it's been 100 grand so far, it's now going to be raised to 300 grand for those families. To be 50% if they live in an undeveloped mountainous mountainous area, and if they live in some villages in such areas, there will be 75% higher compensation. This is one way to ensure that these people have better conditions for life, that they are given greater attention and I think this would give results because the local self-government I come from is already doing it back eight or nine years, where more funds are being given to those families that create a marriage community in our villages 50% more than those who live only in Svrlig. It is the purpose of an undeveloped municipality, it is that there is a need to work, but we have given an accent to our villages. I am speaking here and I hope that we will have the opportunity to make more, at least 50% for mountainous mountainous areas, for undeveloped municipalities, devastated, demographically threatened, and for rural areas to be 75%, because these people need greater support to stay there. Once again, I will support the draft budget because it is developmental and I think we need these things to agree when the laws come.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64315	Thank you, fellow Miletic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64316	Thank you. About everything I hear in this room today, there are a few things that really need to be responded to. First, when someone says, and about what these Gilas fake students and the other unfulfilled Martians did, you know very well who I mean when I say it, that SNS did the same thing, because that's how it was spoken here, he says -- you used your students like that to not know what. It's in the first place completely incorrect and also completely incorrect. So, to be clear, the Serbian Progressive Party has never appeared such as Miljus, Bosko Obradovic, who was still there with them, represented himself as some kind of student of lies, was Marinika Tepic, Sergei Trifunovic, Zoran Lutovac, never representing herself as some students and thus trying to exert political pressure, to harass institutions in this way humiliating them. That's the first thing. The other thing, never those who are students and who are not students, whether or not they are party members, we have not used them in any place. You'll never find an example of a single one, that we were trying to, as they were, blackmail, harass official institutions, not one single institutions, and that's why the Rectorate, like they are, trying to get them to make decisions for some of our political interests that have nothing to do with the university, that have nothing to do with education, which in the most brutal way violates university autonomy. That's the case you won't find. That someone is trying to make a parallel, to draw a sign of equality between us and them, that's incorrect and that's incorrect. Branko Miljus, the one you hold in power in the Old Town municipality, brought in those sandwiches and whatever other offers to Gilas's fake students, not ours. Marko Bastac, the one you hold to power in the Old Town municipality, which puts bags on people's heads while they argue over the racket envelope, he came to support Gilas's fake students, never ours. Similar examples, once again, you won't find them. There's no equality there. Whenever we asked to comply with the rules, to take care of institutions, there were malicious attempts to create some parallel of equality, but there is simply no such thing. As in their current lies, and you can see that every day a new lie is being made, all one lie is catching up to the other, it's being completely exposed and it turns out that the most common are the unsuspecting liars. So they lied, and it wasn't about political pressure, when they were sending out what, 33, 34 years old, unrealized Martian to play some student, and with him all of which, yes, it's about their up-to-date Anasonović feather, which she says herself, so they're talking about themselves, that they're all party people, that they're all young people, and in fact activists who are parties to Dragan Gilas, which are these others who are under Gilas' control. So these are the truths that we have been pointing to from the very beginning, pointing to them clearly, talking about them publicly, to eventually come to what? So that they admit to them themselves, that they only in a luxuriant interview for some daily newspaper two days ago tell that absolutely everything, from word to word, to word, exactly, absolutely everything. That they were party so-called. The protests from the very beginning, that they were funded by Gilas and his men, that they were making some kind of false citizen variants with some kind of fake students, and in fact with their activists. That this is why they have failed, because the people do not believe them, because the people will not follow Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and others who have blacked out the people. Everything you look at is absolutely consistent with what we've been saying, and we've never acted that way. Have you ever seen a young man abuse us in the way they did? To force someone to attack the police, and they were trying to run over a truck here, if you remember correctly, that's what Bosko Obradovic himself ordered. They were throwing bottles at the cops, they were obsessing them in front of a police station, they were breaking in with them, with these young people who used to represent them as I don't know what, and they were pushing their activists into the front lines to break up RTS. You'll never find such an example of behavior on our side. These young people were abused and then when someone happens to react, and they have to react when, for example, a member of the police was attacked, then they used them to continue to create senseless propaganda. To tell their activists how they starved, you remember, when they spend two, three hours somewhere in the state institution of a proper rank, so the videos of them having a nice lunch there. Everything was unfeeling propaganda and everything was a lie and it was all hysteria with the desire to cause a bigger incident, to cause some big, stronger reaction from the state authorities to further feed their propaganda. The game has been fully read, completely clear since day one. I'm telling you once again, that game is only created on one side and that kind of provocation, that kind of instability is constantly generated by them. There's no equality there, that's the first thing you need to know. Second, as far as that highway is concerned. Come on, a hundred times when we say, it's not too difficult for us for 101 times, there was a public call to form a partnership. Is it a fact? It's a fact. There were various companies that could report for satisfying conditions. Is it a fact? It's a fact. There's been as many reports as there are, one single one. Is it a fact? Once again, it's a fact. Before he gives himself the right to say what he thinks is worth, let him remember. The Moravia corridor means a 12km-long section, let it be reminded. It's 78 bridges, it's 24 overpasses, 12 underpasses, 10 loops, it's two years of intense work, which includes moving the riverbed, which includes a complete infrastructure, to provide the optical cable that needs to connect the whole part of the country, which includes so-called "the whole area". terminal infrastructure, which will allow modern service and internet to be even more accessible there than in many other developed parts of the country today. Just keep that in mind and nothing else. So, if there's a chance to compete in this country, there is. That there is an opportunity to participate, who wants and who is able to be competitive, absolutely exists. Who wins at the end? So the essence of this should be, if we understand each other well, that Serbia ultimately wins. That there was this infrastructure that she had never had, that there was a highway where she couldn't even imagine it, sometimes in the days of these Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, which abuse young people, which put unacceptable pressure on institutions, who also managed to do what they were able to do with the Dictionary. So, to do a little smarter things today, not to deal with their stupidity and their needs to be richer. Among other things, highways that we have, and this as we have now, highway “Milos the Great”, as we now have completed Corridor 10 and the South and Eastern arms. Remember, and we talked about it and talked about it—it will be. As you can see, he's got it. And that Serbia today has all of this, both of which are both funding and not being threatened, but that it can, by maintaining peace and stability and by developing economically, that all these things endure and ultimately realize and continue to work further, that doing new good things could not have imagined either, which we do not mention today in this debate, and which will also be reality, you will also see that. Investment in health care is absolutely justified. Investment in health care, therefore, is wrong when you say – only makes sense if it is investment in staff and if it is on a personal basis. First, this investment in personnel and investment in the personal plan is done today. Just look at these pay hikes that we have on several occasions to date. So are they exactly the biggest when it comes to healthcare professionals, when it comes to doctors, nurses? Well, they're the biggest. So, and it's one of the things Serbia couldn't imagine until yesterday, and today it's working, it's realising with success, but it's also working to improve infrastructure in that domain, also the facilities, also the equipment. No one can say – it is not good because there is any possibility, even if theoretical abuse. If you were right, then no one would ever invest in anything that involves facilities, infrastructure and equipment. Would anyone have done one building somewhere, anywhere in the world, if the logic were correct? Would someone get a vehicle, whether it's a dream or a police or military vehicle, that logic is correct? Well, there'd never be anyone. That's not what you're thinking. Thanks to our approach in the right way, we can say today – yes, the new clinical and hospital centres, Nis, which we talked about, but also Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, look, enough is enough to drive through the main city streets, so you will also see the objects of this kind that are being worked today, for great pleasure, we can say, the pride of the citizens of this country is getting a whole new look. Some of them didn't exist. Now, there will be and you will see it will be as real and as useful as, say, these highways and other projects of that kind that we've already realized. So it also invests in people, but also in the means through which these people work, it heals the citizens of this country. Of course, it's all for the very health of these people, these citizens of this country. How much today are we able to finance projects that serve to treat rare diseases, to finance and treat abroad? So when was it in Serbia before Alexander Vukic and the SNS? Who did those clinical-patient centers before us? Remember, we were showing photos here, completely empty, naked backs were where we have these objects today. Empty places in the fallen garages, where we have modern facilities today. But, if you will, both military vehicles and police vehicles, all of these are things that are completely different, much better, much more successful in Serbia today, compared to what it was at the time of these most insatiable, mostly hungry extra money. It's little Gilasu 619m euros, let's go if we can have another round, even so much, or two, even better. And it's all worth it and everything can be trampled out, just so Mr. tycoon can get it back to himself and afford it, so if you have to step on the institutions, you can, destroy the Recitorate, destroy everything else, block the National Assembly, block the presidency, trample the autonomy of the university, nothing sacred, and it shouldn't be sacred. Should the lives of young people be destroyed, those people being abused? No problem at all. Where the basic logic of the new 600 or how many hundreds of millions of euros you want are not worthy of the unencumbered tycoons, nor of the institutions, nor of anyone's destiny, nor of any sense there is any value. The only thing that matters is their own personal, greedy and insecure. When we talk about pensions, those pensions, once again, those greedy, insolent have put them at risk. Let's remind ourselves once more when and how. By not thinking about the state at all, by acting like drunk millionaires. So, they broke up this country's finances, they broke the budget, they borrowed themselves in a senseless way, they didn't think about who was going to pay back, they didn't think about how it would work tomorrow, let alone in a year, and then brought the state to the brink of bankruptcy. Besides, that's what they say. When we talk about things they admit, well, the best thing is, you know, the cutest things are the things they confess themselves. Like they admit today what they were doing savagely with their so-called. The protests and the beautiful name and last name speak of who banned certain actors from addressing the people, who banned certain political representatives who did not want them to, as they today say and who financed and paid and with what interest. So they admitted themselves, yes, the state was in front of bankruptcy, but they thought – what they care about is no longer their problem and their business. But that's the old-fashioned logic, that's that selfish view of life. It doesn't matter what or how tomorrow, but to see what's in it for me, so that I can get my own companies, so that as Gilas in four companies, they can get as much money as possible, that they're making about 619 million, and I'm like Gilas that I have 25 million euros in real estate alone, and God knows how much he didn't even talk about. So that's what made that kind of danger in the state. What did we do? Once again, we saved the country from these dangers. Pensions are now bigger to everyone, precisely thanks to the serious and responsible relationship that we all showed as a society in 2014. Of course, our pensioners showed that responsibility most. That is why we always say, proudly – let them have the greatest honor and thanks for what we have managed to do. They were patient, they knew how important it was to keep the state safe, because if we don't keep it, then there's nothing, literally nothing. There are no pensions, no pensions at all, no new vehicles, no new facilities, no new infrastructures, no highways only remain in the stories and plans of Broz here, there will never be anything. Because we've been thinking differently, seriously, responsiblely, we've implemented these reforms with success, so now, you've heard, 14 to 19% are higher pensions to everyone, such as higher wages and higher salaries, all salaries are higher, not only those relating to the public sector, but foreign investors' representatives tell you so. Greater salaries in the public sector are automatically withdrawn and increased in private. Everyone's standards are growing. Compare today's current 500-euro average salary with that of the current 320-euro average wage, so that's a clear difference. They're making jokes here if the Swiss pension formula is going to be a Swiss standard. So nobody says that Serbia will become Switzerland, but which pension is less than at the time of those geniuses who were Swiss, but only for themselves and their firms, when Gilas was the largest Swiss, but for his companies, his own pocket, his real estate and his immediate environment. When was anything better than that? You know what the problem is with those Swiss parallels? That's what we said to those who are talking nonsense about pensions again today. The problem is that all the criticism of what we've done and what we've achieved is a Swiss cheese. When we talk about Switzerland, do you know maybe, did you find out, we asked a few times, but you kept quiet, what is the minimum cost of working in Switzerland? You don't know yet, do you? Don't be surprised that there may be nothing guaranteed in Switzerland in that sense. And Serbia does not guarantee it, but it is guaranteed twice as good now as it was at the time of Gilas, twice as good. Was it about 16,000? What's 30,000 today and something compared to that 16,000? Is it twice as good? Well, that's you, if you want to talk about Switzerland and us. As for military pensions, they devastated them, they, no one else, and we performed calculations of how great a sin they had committed, and not only that, they found a solution. Is the official program proposed for all military pensioners to make up for it? Yeah, a year ago. Did much of those people agree to that proposal? So he accepted to find a solution along with his country. Well, it is. Who found it? Aren't Gilas and these Anasonovics and Miljushi and the other fake students? Well, it's not, it's those governments that Alexander Vukic himself led and these governments that conduct the policy established by Aleksandar Vukic. In their time, in our time, Serbia has become strong enough to finance it, make a solution and arrange it with the people. So this same country today is successful, incomparably more successful than then, and that's the one that solved it. When someone says it's the easiest thing I've heard before. You know what, it's far from the easiest, it's the most convincing thing to do this the way we do it. The most convincingly difficult, because it implies responsibility, awareness that you have to make a result and that no one will ask you if it was easy or difficult for you, that no one will ask you whether you knew about the work day or the work day, the weekend, the state holiday. Everybody's just gonna ask where the score is? But that result that you do as we do today. We took it as obligation number one for ourselves. It was established as a principle, if you want to talk about our politics, Alexander Vukic himself, and that is the principle that is sacred to us. That's why these results are coming, which is why Serbia has all the things that it once couldn't imagine. You know what's easiest? The easiest thing to say is, like many people say, nothing's wrong. But, you know what, it's not gonna get whoever says it's gonna get in line with anything we've done, because the difference between the empty story and the highway you see, and the pay you receive, and the pensions you receive, you know it's bigger than ever, so the difference is so obvious. Somewhere in late March, in early April, you'll see how good it is, only the citizens of this country see, understand and value that difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64317	Did you ask for a replica or an amendment? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64318	First of all, in just one sentence, I don't know if you've heard of living better in Switzerland than in Serbia than in the average salary. We never said that, as far as health care is concerned, not to invest in facilities and equipment, but parallel to facilities, equipment and personnel. You're not investing enough in personnel. That was an observation. When you talked about "Bechtel" and about the work being started soon, you mentioned the riverbeds, just to remind you that you had to solve a big problem that was created by taking away parts of the parcels or all the parcels of people along the Morava, because of the operation of the gravel mafia that you did nothing to prevent it. We've been telling you for months. Everything you said about this Alliance of Change for Serbia, as they are already called, that you were right, mostly. But you're wrong when you talk about you, in the good part. We've been telling you for months that democracy should live in the National Assembly. There's something you're trying so hard to do. Democracy outside the National Assembly is manifested by the functioning of the system institutions. If you'd respected that, you'd have reacted to the system's competent institutions in the first entry into RTS, the one in the RTS, and the one that's getting into the rectory. No, you've been playing, there's some Democrats alleging, that's true in the recession. In addition to those senior students where they were, and all those people from the Alliance of Change you mentioned, you sent your activists there. I didn't say they were represented as students. Your televisions recorded those students, their televisions by your activists who said they sent me here. So if you'd done that, then you wouldn't need that Anassonic woman's attitude. You know, you say she says who was at those gatherings, who they wouldn't let speak to, etc. We all know that's where Borko, Gilas, Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Bosko, Marinika Chobanu spoke. We all know who was talking there. Which I need an Anasonovic to tell me who led those protests.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64319	Vladimir Orlic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64320	It'll be short. I think we're in the good part here and we understand. I'll even tell you what we agree on. But first, what we disagree on. You can never put a sign of equality between those who blocked the recession as they say. They went there to exorcise something that was their request. They insisted it would be as they say, so let the world fall apart. And they don't care if it's a direct violation of university autonomy, and that's how Gilas's fake students acted, that they don't care what a disastrous relationship it is to the institutions, that they don't care that the rectorate turns into their political body, and those people who went there to tell them don't do that. There's a difference between the earth and the sky. No one, except for them, has put political pressure on them. Let's get this straight. If people show up to tell them don't do it, go outside and leave the university alone. They can never be equal. I mentioned Anasonović for one reason. I think that was quite clear. Let me tell you that there's no better confirmation than when it comes out of their mouths, when they tell themselves a good story and confess what they've been doing, and when it's in the hair, it's consistent with what we're saying. Well, is there any better confirmation that the Nazi stakes were made by the Prince of Michael in the past than that Dragan Gilas himself had to call the press, when he faced the evidence, when he saw the videos and admit it and say it - we did well. It was us, there was a man over there, so what do you want now? So that's why it's important for us, when people hear from their mouths that they admit what they were doing and that they lied in a senseless way, it has its weight. And as for relations with institutions and the need to protect them, we don't have a dispute and we don't have a different view, we wouldn't even build a state to have a different relationship with institutions, but one thing we always say, we won't let them drag us into their traps. They'd like to be energetic police interventions, they'd like to go after the coward and play the victims as someone, I don't know, arrested and detained and so on. (President: Thank you. () Just one more sentence, but you know just because we know that they want to cause a great misfortune to this people, we will not allow them that kind of pleasure. They want to crash, and we don't think he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64321	Thank you. You responded to the line. Let's move on, the citizens are certainly interested in hearing about the budget. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64322	Thank you, President. I'll get the amendment. When we talk about the budget of the Ministry of Health, it is financed through six programmes and this arrangement and supervision in the field of health care. The percentage of programme participation in the overall budget of the Ministry of Health is 35.20%. Then, support for the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights with 32.68%, followed by the development of infrastructure of health institutions with 24.30%, followed by preventive health care, quality development and availability of healthcare as well as prevention and control of leading chronic, non-infectious diseases. In the overall budget of the Ministry of Health, the RFZO transfers accounted for 32.68% and increased by a billion and 250 million dinars compared to 2019 and covered the following. Health care of persons considered as insurance undertakings under Article 16(1). Health insurance laws, which are persons for whom no one pays contributions, and the state pays, and then, the remuneration of earnings in the event of temporary prevention due to illness or complications in connection with maintenance of pregnancy. Then, the health care of people suffering from rare diseases, in 2019, there were two billion and 150 million dinars and two billion and 400 million dinars for 2020. So it's going to be bigger by 250 million dinars. Support for the activities of the bank of reproductive cells in 2019, we did not have the funds defined, for 2020 are planned in the amount of 100 million dinars. In addition to the construction of new and reconstruction of existing healthcare facilities, the health ministry has been working intensively on the human resources of the health system and on training, i.e. the approval of specializations so that over the last four years it has been employed in Serbia's healthcare system, 12,000 healthcare professionals have been granted more than 8,000 specializations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64323	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64324	When the draft budget was adopted, and you couldn't read all the amendments, and even less if you gave a reply to our amendments submitted, and here I will now read to you what the Government is saying, and therefore the amendments that we have submitted to Article 1: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is technically incorrect, because after the table of total income and income, there are no words: "in order to implement public policies". The words "in order to implement public policies" exist on page 2. The draft budget, and after the second table." Well, it doesn't matter that you didn't accept it. It's just that this is a little funny. You know, somebody's reading it, it's getting registered. Don't let that happen anymore. After this budget is adopted, I think we're going to have a serious problem. We have so far had a large number of asylum and migrants, and I expect the citizens of Switzerland to start coming to Serbia now, because you said a little earlier to live better in Serbia, that Serbia has guaranteed personal income, and that there is no such thing in Switzerland. It's not that important either, Mr. Minister, that we go back a little bit to this side of the investment, or direct foreign investment. Both you and every other representative of the government, and even all MPs of the assembly majority, say domestic and foreign investors are completely equal. I must tell you, given the practice in Serbia, therefore, in Serbia, not in another country, they are not equal. You will say that now all those who wish to participate in the construction of the Moravia Corridor are equal. They didn't, when you're special in law, lex specialis said who would build it. Maybe it's a little money, maybe it's cheap, maybe Bechtel will be at a loss when he does, we don't insist on it, we're just asking that all participants have equal rights. But you do the analysis. I think it will soon be ten years as some companies, the first foreign investors came, see how much it cost us, what are the direct effects for the economy of the Serbian state and for the standard of Serbian citizens and what may happen after 10 years, where they enjoy some special and privileged position in relation to economic operators. You say they're right. They do, but maybe they don't have those options. It's not just the kind of conditions to come to that. One more thing you said, Mr. Minister. It's not a small 1% which is now going to be tax-based and tax-based commitments less, and you said that in absolute terms is about 13 billion at an annual level. That's what Minister Djordjevic was talking about. You see, 1%, 13 billion, and what was 10% of the salary and pension of four years in absolute terms? Count it out, and you'll see what the disproportion is and what's the difference. And that's what the citizens of Serbia are looking for. The budget is an economic, legal category, but certainly also political. What's political about? Well, the minister said -- we want to raise our salaries, so we will. What we want is the political character of an act. And that's not at all controversial. So, when you decided to implement not so popular measures, as you yourself said, to cut wages and pensions, that's a political attitude. And now it's time for that to come back. If we're doing so well, if we don't know what we're going to do with surpluses, then it would be good, but not false hopes and promises, then maybe through this budget, we'd do a projection of how, during which period, the Serbian citizens get back what was taken from them. Don't let us do anything for others, to represent ourselves. A lot of things are better now than they were before, but there are things where there's no movement at all. Some places don't know what foreign investments are. For what? Because of this infrastructure that is not satisfactory in those places. There's no normal man who can say you shouldn't invest in infrastructure. I think that this direct foreign investment, including by businesses from Serbia, but elsewhere in Serbia, will have a suitable soil in certain areas in Serbia, but there are no good travel, traffic and other communications. As a result, these businessmen are likely to avoid opening their own offices or perhaps completely new business entities in these companies. In one town, I'll tell you later, I didn't see for myself, but I checked, if it wasn't for, there was a minister, the minister is Mr. Nedimovic, the Minister of Agriculture and I said -- here, today I'm coming back from a place where we agreed to build a factory for the processing of raspberries. It's been about 15 months, I'm told, I haven't personally checked, there's no work, nothing's been done. And you're saying they're completely equal to both domestic and foreign investors. That's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64325	Thank you. The word is Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64326	Thank you. I'd like to say something about health care, which my colleagues didn't say. Health reform has been delayed, although it has progressed the most and has been done the most. We only started these long reforms in 2014, very difficult. A lot has been done and I don't want to repeat myself. What I meant to say was this. My colleague said there were more doctors who weren't employed. The health minister said the other day that about 100 doctors will be admitted by New Year's Eve. This ministry has provided 8,000 specializations. We know that the democratic authorities banned specializations, no one left. Of these 8,000 specializations since 2014, the first specialization has now been completed in September. I was going to say that for rare diseases, this budget is planned for 9%, those being treated abroad, that we have 63 patients rescued in the transplant ward, three lives saved, that we have reduced the use of antibiotics since 2015 by 37.6%. We gave our children three to five times as many antibiotics as all Central European countries. I wanted to say that since 2012, in 2012 for health, the democratic government has allocated three billion, and this year we've singled out 32,668,796,000, so 11 times the health budget for 2020. It will work to regulate the health system carried out through five programming activities. I especially wanted to point out, it is very important that the supervision of health care institutions will be carried out, that sanitary supervision in the fields of medicines and medical resources will be enhanced. This increase that followed in the healthcare budget of 13,826,760,000 opens up many opportunities for health care. Besides, the program will activate both administration and management. This is one newspaper that will improve the health system. I was going to say that besides the infrastructure, except for the clinical centres, it's been done a lot at regional hospitals and it's just about to be done. In particular, the prevention and control of leading chronic patients, the non-infectious patients most on our territory, should be stressed. These are heart disease, malignancies, diabetes mellitus. We have registered people who are suffering from diabetes 700,000. This is why the Ministry plans to return health counselling for this disease, for diabetes mellitus, for people with diabetes. It is one newspaper that will mean a lot, which has been abolished by the arrival of democratic governments. All that is planned will be achieved, especially newspapers about the salaries of medical workers who will be paid an increase. We heard that, I'm not repeating myself. I just wanted to say that Serbia is leading a policy of prosperity by raising a better standard, better life, education, cultural development. This is a huge advance of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, Aleksandra Vukic, a man who raised Serbia both politically and economically and economically. We are particularly proud of these economic reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64327	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64328	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, only to know what the government has adopted, and on a proposal from MPs. It is a change in the table that has actually provided greater funds for agriculture, what Mr. Marijan Risticevic was saying. It is 720 million, of which 420 million is in the position of the Agrarian Payments Authority, and this second part, 300 million is also located in the positions of the Ministry of Agriculture which relate to the resolution of many problems relating to the very digitalisation process that the Ministry of Agriculture has entered. Then, the IT Office increased by 15 million dinars its share for projects that are of importance to the state. Then, the cabinet of ministers without portfolios in charge of regional development, and the part relating to agricultural cooperatives is 300 million. So when you look at it, in fact, agriculture got a billion and 20 million dinars of budget. The part relating to Article 3.b) in the table of Article 8 covering 440m euros, the continuation, or the completion of the Kolubara B project, and in collaboration with the Chinese Development Bank. The part that is most interesting, and I think the political part of the talks is the position and opposition, in fact, where the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia increases its budget by 50 million, precisely to technically train RIK to conduct elections and improve the election process itself that follows us next year, and based on the recommendation of the government that has been adopted, led by Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, who practically refers to the election process itself, to the transparency of the election process. So that position had to go right here. We thank not only the Minister of Finance, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who recognised the practical way in which all these problems that led to these changes in principle. Therefore, our colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, proposed these amendments. We will have an amendment to the Committee that is exactly in line with these changes, which we had to coordinate when these increases occurred. In voting day, I think that, as well as the amendments to the Committee, all MPs will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64329	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64330	I thank you, President. Dear Ministers, or ministers, I apologize, dear fellow Members of the People, it is difficult for anyone, of course, to look at the structure of the budget that we have been discussing for several days, to find more serious objections and to make arguments other than politicisation and populist stories. Unfortunately, these demagogue stages today have a lot, and unfortunately, instead of one truly constructive approach to a very serious subject that depends on a better standard of citizens, which depends on the existence of a large number of families in the Republic of Serbia, we have daily political upgrades, you have about that part of the opposition that absolutely nothing is good, and even what is perfectly good and in no case can be doubted, a shadow of such a thing is cast to at least try to achieve some political point. For this reason, I must point out one more position of the SPS parliamentary group, which is unequivocally clear, and this is indeed full support and strong support not only for this budget, but for further economic growth, investment renaissance and in any case any economic and financial movement that allows for a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because there are facts that anyone who attacks this budget, especially as individuals do, in an extremely unargumented and primal way, and the facts still point to something quite the opposite. This is the opposite: that total expenditure is planned approximately, that are planned at the level of income. So 1.3 billion dinars, and slightly more than 1.3 billion dinars, which speaks of a fully balanced budget, envisions a low budget deficit of 0.3 per cent of GDP, or 20 billion dinars, and is inevitable that this will result in a decrease in external debt. At the same time, this budget certainly is a development budget and in no case should the political story and classical political demagogue be accepted to be an election or pre-election budget. Why? Because almost all the items in this budget indicate that we are continuing that trend, or retaining the continuity of something that has so far been achieved in an extremely successful way. In particular, after the financial consolidation that started in 2012, and when the order was finally introduced, when it comes to the financing of the Republic of Serbia, when order is introduced in the tax system, and tax discipline is established, we now have undoubtedly created good soil, i.e. to continue on the development path, just as this budget is planned. Given that GDP growth is projected 4 per cent, that inflation is projected to 2 per cent, that public debt participation is 51.4 per cent in GDP, then these facts only confirm what I said, which is exactly what Serbian citizens are expecting from this government, and what this government has given them. And that is, it is safe to expect investment growth, economic growth, and what is the most important continuation of growth, the newly employed, or the reduction of the number of unemployed every year in 2020. When it comes to investment in infrastructure, no one can absolutely lead to a fact in doubt that this infrastructure renaissance has been made in several previous years. If we have in mind how many kilometers of highways were done, how much was projected to revitalise railway lines, how much was the modernisation of traffic, both rail and passenger, done and done in one quality way, then we can talk about the continuation of something or continuity of something that began significantly earlier, even after 2000. I think that in this direction, therefore, for the last few years we have been having an expansion of infrastructure content, i.e. investment in infrastructure, and it is not burning that it is also the Moravska and Fruskogorska corridor, the highway to Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Federation of BiH, or the Republic of Serbia, the highway "Mira" as it is popularly called towards Luka Durres, and, of course, the railway line that will be one of the vessels of traffic, to say rebirth, when it comes to connecting the Republic of Serbia with the Republic of Hungary, i.e. the state of Hungary. We need to be aware of the fact that a lot has been done and when it comes to both salaries and pensions, which have been uncontested and significantly increased, and I cannot accept in any case one demagogue approach that is an increase of only 3,000 dinars, and that only 3,000 dinars have led to a minimum profit of just over 30,000 dinars. Dear Ministers, this is only 3,000 dinars, the pay increase generator in general, and especially the increase in wages in the public sector. If we see that salaries are increased by more than 150 euros, by just five, six years, then the public sector undoubtedly took on those dimensions that should have been significant before 2012, which means that public sector employees have one absolute stability, and this implies not only the achievement of the mere existence of their family members, as it was by 2012, but also a decent life with one decent standard. What is looking forward and very good is the fact that the projection of the salary increase in the coming period in the public sector, if I'm wrong, you correct me, somewhere in the range of 8-15%, which I think is extremely encouraging for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially public sector employees. What I find also very important is that the projection of the real growth of the economy of 4% is something that implies not only the continuity of the successful work so far, but also more than that, because after that, and I say again, after 2020, we expect next successful years when it comes to not only financial stability, but also the projection of growth in all segments of our citizens' lives. Investment in education and innovation will certainly allow Serbia to continue with the high and sustainable growth of the economy. What has not been heard so far, I have to point out, dear ministers, is the fact that in this process, the education process, the project that is useful, and how significant, it has experienced full affirmation, that is, it will experience full affirmation in 2020, and that is the project so-called. ‘linked schools’. The project implies that over 1,000 schools in the Republic of Serbia will be connected to the fast internet, that more than 10,000 classrooms will be equipped with modern technology that will enable students, not only the faster education process in the IT sector, but will generally speed up anything that means a generator of something better when it comes to education in the Republic of Serbia and further incentives of economy and economy. Also, I think it is important to point out that investments related to other spheres of social life, which are also very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are investments in sport, culture and art. I have to pay attention to the facts that I consider to be immeasurable, especially when it comes to the social aspect. We forgot today that today is International Day to Fight Violence Against Women. Yes, today is indeed the International Day against a monster who, not only in Serbia, but throughout the world, has taken on conditions that literally involve something that can be described as sadistic in the worst sense, not to mention something more difficult and not to use a more difficult qualification. But that fact simply obliges us to not only through this budget that we are talking about, but also generally pay attention to just protecting those who are most vulnerable, most sensitive and who are exposed to many risks and dangers. I have no doubt that this government of the Republic of Serbia has done much when it comes to protecting sensitive categories. Safe houses, as well as all those who care about sensitive categories, vulnerable categories of the population, must be given even more attention, we must invest additional resources to ensure accommodation for those who deserve it, or who need it, in order to protect themselves from the risks, that is, the dangers of personal integrity, by health and ultimately, by living alone, given the fact that they did not have the number of persons who were killed in these situations, and there is nothing more valuable, nor is there a standard value that can be measured with the value of life. Therefore, in this respect, I think it is very important that this segment, when it comes to social protection, should be paid more attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the funds that will enable, not only newly established safe houses, but all those social protection programmes that these persons deserve and which are necessary. When it comes to investing in culture and art, I think it's closely related to what's called the information field, or what's called media space. In this media space, we have to fight to make it as less real as possible, to make it as decade as possible, to be as small as possible of what destroys the system of values, the criteria of values, and to go back to something that represented and how significant the value sector is when it comes to the socialization of people, and communication between people, the building of culture, the building of what is in some way affected, and that is the elemental home education. Why? That is why everything that has come from the West as toxic, which has infected both the media scene and the cultural scene, has led precisely to young generations being exposed to dangers such as the most severe reality programs and, no matter how commercial and income-generating, has led to young populations being infected with something that cannot be infected and that can lead to even more serious consequences. Therefore, I welcome the government's attempts and on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we strongly support the strategy for the development of media space and the modernisation of media in the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I will return to something that I was talking about in the opening part, i.e. in the principle debate when it comes to budget and once again to direct, honourable ministers, to you, when it comes to justice and employees in the judicial system, given that a large number of judicial employees still have very low earnings, I will repeat that it is the tenants, unlike the civil servants of the state, they are in something more unfavourable financial position, and I will ask you that precisely those of whom much depends on the judiciary, just those who are operating in the justice system, and that significant affairs in the justice system, in the courts, the prosecutors, at the end, and in the defences, have to have a far larger view of their status, a far greater understanding on our part, and that understanding of our side implies that they have a better status when it comes to their profits that they are in some way increased from 1% to 10%. I also urge that the judicial system balance the profits because there is a huge proportion in profits between the judges of the basic courts, as well as the judges of the higher, or the judge of the republican rank, such as the Court of Appeal, the Commercial Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Cassation. The balance of profits in this sense must exist because there are great differences. If the income of the Court of Justice is slightly higher than the average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which is already approaching some nearly 600 euros, then it is very important to prevent the dangers of corrupting action, in order to prevent the dangers of a sundial that we have for many years, and to ensure, on the other hand, the healing of the judiciary in general, then these profits, at least the judges, at the level of the basic courts, must increase. What needs to be commended for the state sector is the unquestionably digitisation of eGovernment, and that, distinguished ministers, we support both you and the complete government, given the fact that two important effects are achieved in this way. The first effect is no doubt a reduction in the number of employees, where there is no doubt in the public sector a significant number of employees are more than needed. On the other hand, this implies that the needs of citizens are being serviced in a much more efficient way, because instead of pesoriously speaking, a large number of people who have to spend hours, sometimes who knows how much, waiting in front of the counters, now by digitising the eGovernment, the service of the needs of citizens and precisely in that segment, the need of citizens is being realized in a much, much more efficient way, and we have to try to make it even more efficient, that citizens simply do not have to, especially those who are in a state of impotence, diseases, pensioners, old people, to go around the counters and to wait for who knows how long to get one document from which they depend on the exercise of a certain right. This document can also be obtained and, let's say, set up a system of giving this document in an extremely efficient way and I'm sure this will be achieved by improving the digitisation of the eGovernment that has come into life and I think it's something that needs to be pursued in the future. When it comes to environmental and health protection, I think it's done a lot, but what's done a lot in no way should be an axiom where it stops. On the contrary, it must be done further. The infrastructure related to environmental protection must be improved. It seems to me that in this direction it is very important that a ban on the import of cars whose combustion products pose a serious threat to environmental pollution is at stake and that is something that, of course, needs to be supported. On the other hand, there must be a social element in mind, which is the status of our citizens. How to balance the fact that, on the one hand, we have a huge number of low-income citizens, which are of such nature, and structure and content, that citizens can in no way provide the means of transport that allows, on the one hand, the filtration of exhaust gases to prevent pollution. On the other hand, we have the possibility that these same people in traffic can achieve what they need to live, which is that from place to place they can also be translated safely and achieve everything that involves living needs without using other modes of transport other than their own transport, especially in rural and rural areas. Thus, this balance, or balance between such two complex situations, is not easy. When it comes to sport, distinguished ministers, given that I come from that branch in the bottom of my life, please also in cooperation with the Ministry of Sports have an impact on something that I think is kind of neglected, which is an accent on the development of so-called. School sport. The representation of school sport in the domain of sport is in some ways very small. Why, baby? Because we don't invest enough in this segment of sport and the development of sports culture as it invests in professional sport. It seems to me that popularising school sport would have to be far greater because this is how those who need it most, and these are the youngest age categories of the population of the Republic of Serbia, and this was, in time, something that can be qualified as commendable when it comes to one medium, which is the SOS channel that is currently dealing with this topic, the topic of school sport. I think that we should continue to work on this field, invest significant resources and provide everything that is necessary for our youngest to be involved in sports activities that are certainly of the utmost importance for their health. At the very end, all of this I have pointed out, dear ministers, is not worth any consideration of the populist and demagogue stories that relate to your doctoral dissertation or which attach to something that has received the characteristics of pure politicization. The decision of someone's doctorate is a political story and as such we experience it and as such we evaluate it. The success in the work, the expertise and professionalism presented are the best data, parameters and indicators that all those who deny these values cannot in any case earn attention to citizens, except for a conviction for pressure on those institutions to which pressure cannot be applied, and cannot be overly pressured against higher education institutions such as the Rectorate and Belgrade University. Unfortunately, these pressures have been carried out and, thanks to this kind of political pressure, we have today a political topic called the annulment of doctoral dissertation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64331	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64332	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. I have referred the amendment to Article 1, given that the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act is prescribed a minimum amount of funds to encourage agriculture and rural development of 5% of the total tax revenue. Since the total tax revenues are 1.132 billion and 100 million dinars, 5% of them are 56,605,000.000,00 dinars. However, only 40,588,753,00 dinars were planned by the proposal for a law to encourage agriculture and rural development at the subsidy position. This is the difference, i.e. the reduction for these purposes of 16023.459.000,00 dinars. In view of this, I have suggested that this missing amount, as far as agriculture and villages are concerned, be secured from two positions. The first position is the economic classification of 45 — subsidies and other subsidies for undefined purposes. The second position is Division 16 of the Ministry of Finance in the economic classification 499 - reserve funds of three million dinars. Given that agriculture is an extremely significant activity and that no year after 2004, both in previous and in this agriculture regime, minimum 5% has been provided, I think it is high time for farmers to get what is prescribed by law, because the Budget Law cannot reduce the rights arising from other laws that were passed before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64333	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64334	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, respected representatives of the government, distinguished citizens, as you have seen, and now and in the past days we have not heard any serious and realistic argument when it comes to the criticism of the Budget Law, nor could one of the arguments presented serve as a real basis for criticism of the budget itself. Many good and positive things are contained in this bill, and it is also about increasing profits and investments at the same time, which you will admit is not a very common case of budgets at all. Usually, it's not a rule, but the basic characteristic of every income and expenditure plan is essentially that they're either a developmental or social character. This proposal contains both of these components. He's both developmental and social. I repeat, this is really one value, it's not the rule that one of these is exceptional, but this one contains, simply, both things within itself. Now, that is, in itself, the result of the serious and committed work of the president of the state and of the government, but if you will, that is, on the one hand, but if you want the minds and patience of the Serbian citizens who have borne the greatest burden of reform in the previous years, and here I mean, first of all, the pensioners, who themselves have put out somehow the burden of all these reforms. However, alas, all this and free of all good results when you lack some real arguments, then comes a senseless campaign, first of all to you ministers, as one of the most responsible in the government to implement this legislative proposal. But, Minister, what you need to know is you're just a secondary goal and you're your personality and your doctoral dissertation and ultimately the Ministry you run, so you might as well say the Government. Each of us is individually merely the secondary or secondary goal of such a senseless campaign. The main goal is Serbia. The goal is to stop Serbia, to make one political instability in Serbia. Afterwards, according to a dictatorship from abroad, he put together some kind of government from the street, with many exotic characters in it, such as Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Bosko Obradovica, etc. Such a government would then carry out what some other centres are up to, which is putting Serbia in danger for decades and putting it in danger and questioning its survival itself. This, of course, would ultimately lead to one unexplainable situation and millions of our people living in both Republika Srpska and Montenegro and Macedonia, if you will in Hungary, after all. A serious material compensation would then follow for protagonists of such work from the same centers where such a single scenario was created. Now, that is what is the primary goal of the entire campaign, which is being led against both you and everything you've done these days, but also against Minister Stefanovic, the president of the state and many other responsible people today in the Republic of Serbia. Bosko Obradovic, you've seen in the last day or two, has another goal, and that's what he declared himself, believe me, and none of us have invented, that his wife is declared Serbian queen, and I guess he's kind of a difolt prince of Serbia or something. As much as I mean the truth as I'd like to tell you, it's not something that I've been talking about, it's more a reflection of the mental state, not Mrs. Obrenović, or Obradovic, but above all of her husband, who is also the proponent of an amazing idea like this. As much as that, ministers and distinguished colleagues, sounds a little funny, believe me, it's not a bit funny. It's a very, very dangerous thing. This is something else I say, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia who need to know what it is and what a danger it is these days over Serbia and what it is that we from the SNS, but also the people who support us, we have to deal with it. However, Serbia has already gone through something similar once, it has had the opportunity, our people are wise enough, it has had the opportunity to see what it is and what is behind it in some other places in the world, and I am sure that the people in Serbia will not allow such a thing. And we, ministers, as SNS MPs headed by our president, will certainly continue to expose everything that is behind the actions of the opposition in Serbia today. Believe me, together with you and the President, we will not allow one such scenario as they planned and I talked about in the previous period, and this certainly good draft budget for 2020 will be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64335	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Chabrai, a Member of the 1st Amendment, submitted to him. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Milan Ljubic, as amended by Aleksandra Cabraja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64336	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs, SNS policy and our president, Aleksandr Vukic, is a policy of economic growth and stability. That's the policy we're running, and that's what we stand for. With this 2020 budget, we aim to accelerate economic growth, and thus continue to increase citizens' living standards. For 2020, real growth in economic activity is up to 4%. The point is that fiscal space will be used in 2020 to increase capital investments, raise wages and pensions, as well as to tax redundancies of the economy. These measures will lead to an increase in living standards and an acceleration of economic growth, without jeopardising the stability of public finances, while reducing public debt. The projected wage growth in the public sector will range from 8% to 15% and the average salary will be 500 euros with a growth trend. Pensions will rise by 5.4% per so-called. "Switzerland formula." It's a trend that will continue. This is the item of the budget that will also affect our fellow citizens' living standards. The minimum labour price is rising by 3,000 dinars to 30,000, which will contribute to growth. Another aspect of the acceleration of economic growth is economic recovery. The 2020 budget, when it comes to capital investments, envisions 198.9 billion dinars. When it comes to infrastructure, funds for the Moravia Corridor have been allocated, building a Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. The draft budget also includes the Hungarian-Serbian railway project, as well as the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, the expansion of Smederevo port, which will contribute to the accelerated economic growth of our country. Serbia today is a country of new highways, railway lines. Serbia is a hub of roads connecting the north with the south, west with the east. With good infrastructure, you're an easy candidate for new factories. Investment in education and innovation will allow Serbia to continue high and sustainable growth. It is all the key to individual development and progress, but also to society, state, to make it even faster and more ready to go into the future and to raise the level on the scale and to be even more successful. The 2020 budget increased funding for investment in education, innovation. The Fund for Science has doubled. The funds for the construction and reconstruction of schools, digitisation projects have been identified. The funds have also been allocated to equip computer cabinets to create even better conditions. Money was provided for a science and technology park in Novi Sad, Nis. Science and innovation are key factors of competitiveness and sustainable development, which will contribute to the country's accelerated economic growth, to create better conditions for young people, to provide them with a better and more successful future, to have more opportunities. The overall budget of the health ministry is higher by 13.8 billion dinars or 73% compared to 2019. The amount of 2.4 billion dinars for the treatment of rare diseases has been increased. More investment is being invested in prevention, then in the development of KC Serbia's health facilities, KC Novi Sad, KC Kragujevac, as well as in the purchase of medical equipment. In this way, healthcare professionals will have better working conditions and citizens will get better quality healthcare services. The bottom line is that this is a development budget and that we have a trend to continue economic activity in 2020, to build a more competitive economy, to solve the problems of ordinary people, to increase the number of employees, to improve the quality of life, to increase profits, to go up with stability in the economy, to open new perspectives and opportunities, to make our country stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64337	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64338	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by amendment to Article 2. The draft Budget Law, which I tabled on behalf of the SRS, is proposed to be deleted because a budget deficit is directly projected, and government representatives are constantly talking about a multi-annual surplus. We believe that the budget must be balanced, then well planned, and that the budget deficit can be avoided, so the question arises – is this deficit planned on purpose, so that you can again boast about the surplus later? The planned budget, you announced in advance that you would spend more than you would earn, which does not have to be controversial, because often the budget is projected with a minimum deficit, but you step down from some normal frameworks, and a larger inflow of funds can certainly be achieved in more ways and if various government agencies were abolished, and if the funding of various NGOs working directly against Serbia's interest would be abolished, the deficit would certainly be significantly reduced. Also, 300m euros in savings from a devastating contract with Bechtel. In fact, instead of accepting an offer from a Chinese company that is better and cheaper, Bechtel is elected, and it is precisely 300m euros that could have been invested in road infrastructure in any part of Serbia, avoiding new loans or loans with high interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64339	The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64340	Apparently, today's debate, as well as yesterday, runs into the challenge of the Minister of Finance's doctoral dissertation. First of all, there are those who are in the ruling coalition. It doesn't really matter to a man when he comes to such a situation as the minister, but we should welcome the fact that he is still sitting in the Assembly and discussing the proposed budget with us. If it's any consolation, Minister, you've broken through the ice, but there's more doctors, magistrates, graduates of any kind, you'll see what happens to them. When you're so challenged, it's not a problem for them, they just need to determine how much anyone gave to buy that diploma or possibly pay for the titles, and the travel expenses aren't included, because they hated to go there, the diploma was sent to them. In order not to deal with these things, you have here predicted that 600 billion and 500 million will be included in the budget by making it happen based on the broadcasting of securities of value, loans, loans from commercial and financial institutions and on the sale of financial assets. Now, look, it's about to be easy to track the public, five billion euros, and it's supposed to happen this way. What's the main thesis in this? It is that most of the funds will be used to pay off earlier commitments based on credit and securities from values, i.e. Eurobonds issued by the state, so that in some way they can finance everything required by Serbia's budget. Now, let's start at the end, as they say, five billion and 800 million. Minister, in this budget you've predicted 10 billion from the sale of spas and banana spas. However, you've only drawn this bookkeeping as an investment. There's not a single dollar that the state has invested in. It is property and availability of PIO, but the state has decided whether to put into bankruptcy or to sell. However, this will eventually, in one way or another, be placed on the market, that is to say, for sale and the state will receive certain funds, so that they are much larger funds. I say again, it's now accounting for so much as 10 billion, but these assets from selling assets are worth five billion and 800 million. As far as these securities are concerned, there is our advice – be careful. Of course, we don't mind unfavourable loans and arrangements being paid off now that the favourable conditions have been met, but it needs to be very, very thoughtful. The securities of value have a passivity, that is, demand is behind them as long as those who buy it, and in this case they are mostly part of a commercial bank, while they give more favourable conditions than it is, let's say, to put it possibly into business function or anywhere else, because securities of value involve much more interest, and that's more security. It is seen here that this maltene has become manoeuvre and these governments, especially the National Bank, to approach such a single solution. That's how not so small funds are made. In particular, 312 billion plus 236 are being realized here. So, most of these planned funds, Eurobonds or securities of value, but there's a danger when the moment comes that they're no longer interested in these securities of value. I asked you a moment ago, what would you say in "ofu", how modern it is, to count on the revenues that will come next year from this Turkish flow, and you said that you did not count on these revenues to be directly in the budget, but that from the first revenues you intend to pay off these payments on the basis of credits given to "Serbiagas", so that this could, in some way, start with payment, as of April next year, which is very, very good. This is some kind of rational economy that is being run, but also here should be completely careful because securities are of high value at first sight, a great benefit, but you must count on the overcrowding of the market, especially when it comes to Eurobonds or charters of values broadcast by the state of Serbia. They're going to have foreign banks, or they might have some other strategy, and we're going to stay in big trouble, because they're going to give us back those papers, charge for who knows what interest. Why am I telling you this? That's what happened in Greece. At one point in Greece, such a situation occurred. The Greek government has found itself in a very, very difficult situation. We only appeal, insist, especially when it comes to this Article 2, to make sure to be careful, to dose clearly, sufficiently dosed funds where Serbia cannot get into trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64341	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64342	I thank the chairman. It is normal for us to discuss the budget, to have this debate a little bit more than usual, that speakers touch some more social segments that break through this draft budget, so that many speakers are in the process of today's debate, some of them are no longer in the O.R., they have one way of coming to the O.R. or 15 minutes in the O.R., telling things and going to do some other things, or doing some other obligations I don't even know. One of them, among other things, spoke about it, I think they come from that Modern Serbian Party or, as the party is already called, that Serbia's jump on the world's Duing Business List does not mean anything to citizens, i.e. there will be no improvement in the standard of living of citizens. In part, I can accept that the news of Serbia's jump on the world's Duing Business List does not automatically mean, or it does not create a feeling for citizens that it has a better standard of living, that there is more money in its pocket, but, let me tell you, the increase in pensions and the increase in wages provided for in this budget will and how it affects citizens' living standards and that is something that no one can dispute. When we increase someone's salary by 8%, someone's 10%, someone's 15%, that's how it manifests by improving the standard of living and citizens feel it in their pocket, so it's an increase. Someone's got 2,000 dinars, someone's got 3,000 dinars, someone's got 5,000 dinars, someone's got more. In that sense, it is also a sensitive increase in living standards. Also when we talk about pensions, so pensions increase by 5.4%, I'm not going into that debate about the Swiss model right now. This Swiss model is most spoken of by those MPs who know nothing about this Swiss model. There was an argument that more needs to be done to repair the investment climate, so I wrote down this particular regret - repairing the investment climate. Well, we've been doing it years ago, and we're working intensively to improve the investment climate in Serbia. I can even say freely that everything we do is done to improve the investment climate in Serbia, therefore, because of creating better investment conditions and better investment environments and effects are already felt. So the effects are also felt through legislation, and through legal certainty, and by reducing the burden on earnings, and by allowing faster issuing of building permits and similar things and all of that results. This results in us being absolute recordmakers in attracting foreign and direct investment and no one is slowing it down anymore. So, we don't say that from SNS, we recognize all relevant financial institutions, that we are absolute record recorders by the inflow of foreign direct investment, and we will continue to invest in road infrastructure, and in traffic infrastructure, and in rail infrastructure, and in building roads, bridges, hospitals, schools, kindergartens and everything else that is envisaged, including this budget. When it comes to the controversy whether the plagiarism decision is political or not, well, of course it's political. It is absolutely political, and I think that that is how it is shown from the plane that this decision is purely political, and I am sorry to say that the University of Belgrade has succumbed to the political pressure of certain political parties, led by Dragan Dilas, with Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, and all of them from the Alliance for Serbia, who had the strongest political pressure on the Belgrade University on a daily basis. Parts of that pressure and now we feel it. I'll show you just the news from this morning "We're not strangling Belgrade with chains closed by the Ministry, Sinisha Mali, no longer to spend any more days in office." Imagine, a couple of lunatics came in this morning outside the finance ministry and chains closed the entrance to the finance ministry building. Well, isn't that political pressure? Well, isn't that? And I wonder where security is, and I wonder. So, it's not that controversial. It is disputed that we are suffering a constant experience here, several months-long political parties headed by Dragan Gilas, who have constantly exerted the most terrible political pressure on Belgrade University. What it means is that some of you call them students, they've been threatening to block them for months, that I don't know what they're going to do in the rectory building, if the decision isn't the way they want it to be. If it's not political pressure, I don't know what political pressure is. Just one more thing for the end. When it comes to controversy, it's about this Anasonic woman we've mentioned so many times today. So no one here agrees with the policy represented by this Jelena Anasonovic. We have used her testimony, that is, her confession, as the daily newspaper has reported, only used as the crown proof of what we of the SNS have talked about months ago, which is that the protests that have been organised for months are not civil protests, but protests organised by the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Gilas and all those of the Alliance for Serbia, with the aim of destroying the legally elected authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64343	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, political views do not require confusion and fear among citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Especially when it comes to state records of value and payment of those loans, or should I say those duties. If you read Article 2 more carefully. Budget law, part of the debt is said to be replaced before the maturity. To explain to my colleagues what that means, and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This means that we will return some of the state records issued by Mirko Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas before the deadline, and we will return it before the deadline by taking more favourable loans. The amendment's promoter obviously agrees with the policy led by Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas and asks that these loans be collected to the Republic of Serbia. At least that's what the amendment says. As far as I know to read the amendments, that's it. It is also false that debt based on the broadcasting of state records is more expensive than bank loans. That's completely incorrect. You know, banks are financial institutions that have registered in business lending. They can give physical persons, natural persons who perform business, companies and the state, but banks are also funded from certain investment funds that deposit certain funds to these same banks, with a certain interest, so the bank on that deposited funds and interest it is due to pay, accounts for the margin when it places the loan. When you broadcast securities of value, these same funds that finance banks also have the right to buy government securities from the same price that would place those funds at banks. Thus, such a type of debt is also cheaper than the bank's credit, i.e. reduced by the bank's banking margin when it collects the credit. We can't even compare ourselves to the Greek crisis, because it wasn't about overcrowding the market, it was about losing confidence in investors in Greek fiscal stability. They had approximately, when they asked the EU for help, 180% of the public debt relative to GDP and then no one wanted to buy their securities, not because they had no money, but estimated that they were too risky and the question of the day whether these loans would be returned to them. Now, if we look at the situation in which Serbia is now, it is far, far from the Greek scenario today, which was not in 2011, 2012, when we took credits that we will return in 2020, although someone is against it, then I think it supports the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, backs Boris Tadic, supports Dragan Dilas, because he asks with his amendment that these expensive loans remain to be paid off by the citizens of Serbia, i.e. from the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64345	The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64346	First, I heard from my colleague Arsic that you were on TV this morning, cameras are a wonder of those rays. Maybe you didn't understand because you're still on that show. No one here has talked about what you want to interpret. This is where we talked about being careful about broadcasting paper of value. It's okay, now I'm just repeating to you briefly, in short lines so you can get involved, get out of the studio. So, here it's just said that there's no one against it that if it's possible to pay off obligations on the basis of issued securities of values or Eurobonds. Well, here, recently on budget rebalancing, the ministry came out with a proposal to pay for a portion of the values of 2020. Why are you taking records of value at this point? Well, you know that well. You obviously have a role to play, I don't know what your role is, but you're waiting for radicals like that, so you're contorting something. We like you to control. It's a little radical that's left and we're glad. But you don't care or listen to what we say. We're talking about the fact that now there's a very high interest in buying securities of value, because there are conditions much more favourable than placing it in the form of a loan, for commercial banks I'm talking about, rather than placing it in the form of a loan, to place it in the economy. It's safe here, there used to be up to 5% interest here. Now it's not, however, 3% with a maturity of five, 10, 12 years, which charters and it's certainly an investment. As far as Greece is concerned. Obviously, you've heard something, and then you've built a structure, it's just the opposite of what the radicals say. The Greek government, Mr. Arsic, has made such a report on the financial situation in Greece that, people would say, it detests Europe to invest, so as not to be in debt. However, Europe itself has decided to put Greece in an even more invisible position. Banks, not Europe, but banks, the World Bank, the European Bank for Development and others who give these loans, they decide. We don't decide here, so here it is, after all, the minister to engage in this controversy. They'll be buying while they're interested, not us, and that's why they need to be taken care of. That's why I'm saying that the real source of funding is the sale of this financial asset in spas and spas. Well, look at the draft budget, I assume you've been watching. The next one for privatisation is provided for spas and spas. Here, my colleague Colakovic, whom I highly respect, is a man involved in this, and in the end I think he once spoke about the spa and the spa to make sure that it is and what a significant source for future maintenance of the PIO, i.e. the PIO Fund, to ensure funding. So it's 10 billion bookkeeping, and it's actually much bigger money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64347	The word has Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64348	Now, I don't want to talk about television and who's irradiating, who's flashing in the middle of the night, but I've heard some things again that really have nothing to do with reality. First, Greece asked for EU assistance when it could no longer repay a single dinar of credit, when it was unable to pay more of its pensions and salaries in the public sector. It's called almost bankruptcy. So if someone owed him 320 billion euros was a public debt, and that gross product was about 240, you figure out how much it is. But obviously it's a little ignorant of the financial market, I don't blame it. As for securities of value and broadcasting, stable economies will always be interesting investors to buy their securities of value, always. The state is in debt of the first category, where debt is considered to be the safest, but provided that the public finances of that state are stable. Now, I don't see anything wrong with giving back a set of loans and replacing it with a significantly cheaper one. What's he supposed to be careful about? At a lower interest amount to pay, is that it? Whether someone buys your securities of value or not, it decides your bonus. Here, let's say, the man mentioned Mr. Minister, Germany. Its public debt is over 100% GDP, but it has stable growth. Do you have any idea how much interest there is on the records from the value that Germany is broadcasting? Zero or minus. It means the investor pays for the German government to keep their money. We're in debt at dinar values, same records of value, 17, 18, 22, 23%. Now we have 2% or 3%, on euro bonds 1.2, 1.6%. Find a country in an environment that can broadcast such favourable securities of value. One more thing, when you talk about pensions, you have to take care of something. By a million and 300 thousand pensioners are not reduced, not one single dinar. On the contrary, they were increased even while fiscal consolidation measures were implemented. The biggest burden was borne by pensioners who have relatively higher pensions than most pensioners. If you're looking for, and your political program is like this, you consider it unconstitutional, non-national, non-human, etc., to return some of the savings, then forget about the millions and 300 thousand pensioners, because they won't be able to increase pensions, as it goes since New Year's Eve. Or someone's just making a purely political story to make a political point. I can tell you that when I choose between 340, 350,000 people who have suffered one large part of the burden, or to poverty a million and 300,000 pensioners, who have the least pensions, I will not choose these poorest pensioners. But obviously if someone is receiving a pension of 50,000 dinars, whether his mom and dad, well, he's sorry about his mom and dad, so here Mom and Dad's money mentions, he's going to act like one, meaning extremely irresponsible, extremely hypocritical, and he's showing how to run the country. Perhaps the ideal solution would be to re-emitting securities of value or, as they suggested, bonuses for the profession so that it would be a pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64349	But the same criteria, it's not a replica. There were four and 51 discussions here after the amendment. It's up to you to choose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64350	I think it's in vain to have a debate like this. This is already going on, during this term, when a man was counting, he couldn't remember exactly how long it was going on. It's better to use the time for something smart than to tell you something. So, I have no intention of doing business with you. As far as the pensioners are concerned, you'll explain it to the pensioners. It's clear to us that you can take someone's acquired right, that you can take a savings tomorrow, explain it as something that's beyond necessary, go to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court is silent. It's all clear to us, that's what you explain to the pensioners. We don't mind if you explain it to them. We'd be happy to accept your explanation. As for a stable economy. Let's be clear sometime. Only in the name of interest, Serbia spends a billion euros annually, only on behalf of interest service, on different grounds, on different credits. Secondly, don't lose sight of you who are in the government that the total debt is not what you say 23 billion and the rest. Debt is also being added to what is your difference between exports and imports, and that difference is being added to your total debt of Serbia. It's what every country counts for, by that methodology. What you're showing is that it decreases to 51%. We would primarily care about Serbian radicals and how much we care. Let's not brag that it's really that much. We simply remind you that there is one universal methodology that adds to the total debt and what is the difference between exports and imports in each country. Don't ever think of taking an example of Switzerland, Germany, America and all. That's inappropriate. That, in my opinion, is the highlight of cynicism towards its own people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64351	Let's move on. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64352	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is the draft budget law for 2020, certainly the most important law for each government for the year for which it is passed. How important is the matter of the government register? I'll remind you that once a security guard is a state register, i.e. The finance minister was the second political figure in the country, after the president of the state and the Prime Minister, but he's not like us, say the military minister, or the police minister. Some of the government's effects on the financial plan are indisputable. But the issue of financial coverage is a constantly open issue for each government and depends on the environment and on how many budget users are below it. The government's in the exam. In her hands is both a knife and a cake, meaning fiscal policy, rules of procedure, programmes and all other instruments in the service of further improving the economic environment and ensuring high levels of economic growth. The Serbian Radical Party is against surplus policy and budget deficits. Because if they appear either one or the other, it means that you didn't plan something well, project and analyse it. What we are still against, and what is so logically said by professional Professor Vojislav Seselj, is that in this distribution of state money there is a lot to be said for so-called. the non-governmental sector. If that is, however, less allocations than last year, we are all witnessing the effect of their work. Even some are harmful to the state, which means the government is funding them, and they're working against the state. Dear gentlemen, it is another anomaly imposed outside of your European role models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64353	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64354	I thank the esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected ministers with associates. I would disagree, and I would refer to today's presentation of one of the colleagues from the same option as the previous speaker, which is that investment is not important. I'd like to ask that colleague. How does investment not matter? How do they think the citizens lost their jobs in 2012. Since I come from Kruševec, I would also remind this colleague that only in Kruševec in the past few years, a large number of foreign investors have come, but also domestic and are doing well all those factories that have been closed until 2012, poor privatisations, and with the same people who led the country until 2012, colleagues are in some municipalities and support them, which means they are slightly different from them, because they would not support them. What is the same information is that in 2019 over two billion investments came into our country, which means that this is one responsible policy, SNS policy, first of all, and our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, which means that we are one of the regional leaders. What works successfully in my city, to know colleagues and that citizens are satisfied with it, are the Cromberg Shubert investment in Germany, the Czechoslovak Group, the Cooper Tajd, the Lidl, the Nepi, the Mol, the Pompea, the De Smit, the New Syllab, means in the Rasin County, then Trajal in Kruševec, the Rubin, the Župa, the "Skupa" in Tristenik and many other factories. It means that Serbia is taking big steps forward and hence dear colleagues and a great support of the citizens, and from the election to the elections, it is growing. In the next election, I expect a convincing, convincing victory, and those who don't deserve it, of course, go to a political dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64355	Thank you, Mrs. Barisic. Now the right to replica has Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64356	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Since I wouldn't talk to an esteemed colleague on the other hand. You, when you see her, tell her to take a trip to the Ibar highway and see in one part of Serbia, say southwest how to live, what is invested there, because some cities also have Cvetanović, and Darko Glisic, and of course they have Bata Gasic. But whoever doesn't have a Bata doesn't even have a salary. For this reason, I would like certain fellow MPs to be directed to that part of Serbia, southwestly, so that you can see how these people are leaving our midst daily. Our paths are good, but we're just taking a one-way ticket. Nothing in this work has been done, and therefore, dear colleagues, and you gentlemen MPs, is not Serbia until Zlatibor, I think the government is, and I have the impression that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also experiencing Serbia, because here in the last six years nothing has been done in that part. Why? I don't know, you ask yourself, you have her sabering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64357	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The right to replica has Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64358	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I am pleased that my colleague noticed that SNS officials, although Mr. Gasic is now at rest, but that they are primarily responsible for their country and cities where they come from. Which means, and I'm sorry that he doesn't exactly go through the Moravia corridor in the future so he can see what this Moravia corridor will bring. So over 21,000 businesses are on the move, which means more new investments, more new jobs. But as much as I think he's from Prepolje, so he's just going this way to Milos the Great, and I hope his way to Prepolje is much easier now, and that's exactly what our president of the Republic, led by the SNS, acted like we have both a healthy infrastructure and a factory. And as for the Zlatibor County, I believe that something is not missing either in investment or in progress as well as all the other parts of our beautiful Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64359	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. The right to replica has Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64360	I hope to go to the methroom in that direction in the future, dear colleague, but I think Milos the Great highway is a good thing for Serbia, where we are fortunate to have many large roads, but that road is 109 kilometers that costs 420 dinars in one direction, tolls, so you see how much it costs for an ordinary citizen with a salary of 30,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64361	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. Right to the replica of Dr Dragan Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64362	Let's continue when a colleague is in the mood for these replicas and debates. I would like to remind again whether in some Belgrade municipality they support all those Gilasa, Ljoticevci, who were in power. Well, dear colleagues, they were the same until 2012 and you know how they ruled, what the roads were like back then in our Serbia. So that's the same toll you used to pay for, but for no favor, at least now you've got a place to drive and pay. Who gave you that? The Serbian Progressive Party, of course. You have a healthy stable budget, here's the developmental budget, not some pre-election budget or whatever. So, really contradictoryly little, you attack us who work, build, you have healthy roads and everything else, and you're in a coalition and you're in support of some who have devastated this country. This really isn't going the way it's supposed to be. I'm for constructive criticism, but this isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64363	Thank you. The Right to Replica now has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64364	This is really amazing. First, a colleague says she travels through some future corridor and regrets that Zoran Despotovic does not travel the future corridor. We're still traveling what's real. He says they're building healthy roads. Oh, my God, the one about Gredella was something sick, and in two days, some holes, some craters, didn't come up so healthy. Although, I don't know exactly what a healthy path means, but it doesn't matter. It's a little too much now, which we support. She said--they did. I guess she didn't think anyone would answer that. They, we, i.e. We support someone. A colleague, Zoran Despotović, is from Prepolje. And there they, you progressives, specifically I will say, unlike her, I will not in the deputy, are in power with Suleiman Ugljanin. That's what we've said many times. So, now, what do we do? And in Priboj, too, and in Tutin, too, in Novi Pazar, too. And the way that counterpart Zoran Despotovic usually takes is by the side of Požega. You know what that is? It's that community where the radicals in power with the advances, and then the entire advanced leadership were thieves, completely in prison, in custody, and the Serbian radicals stayed where they are and now they're back in power, but with some of your new people. We sincerely hope that they will continue to work as fairly as they have done so far. So don't, dear colleague, it's the budget. Say something about the budget, if possible. He said just before Mrs Gojkovic that the people wanted to hear about the budget. I'm sure he does. But listening today, from this morning until now, you, I really don't know who can even conclude that the budget is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64365	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Veroljub Arsic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64366	I understand that MPs want to present themselves in front of their citizens in those environments where they live to represent their interests and that's completely legitimate. But I also ask my colleagues to refrain from saying that nothing has been done, that nothing is done and that it will all go away if nothing is done. One colleague even mentioned that the toll is 420 dinars, and who's going to pay that, who has a salary of 30,000 dinars, say, in Prepolje? Now I'm asking another question - and who's going to come open some drive, some factory, something in Prepolje, if there's no quality way to get there? And then who's going to give that worker more pay than 30,000 dinars, if there's no way... Please don't throw it away. ... if it's a appendix and you don't need to invest in traffic infrastructure. I'm asking especially not to get my co-workers, because I've been that way at least 20 times as much as she has, so I know the great end. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia, continuing the continuity of the first government of Alexander Vukic, leads Serbia towards even regional development. Don't forget that. Before there was one classical Belgrade, another center was administrative, it was in the AP Vojvodina, Novi Sad. There was something else going on around Old Paz. They were the only centres in Serbia where something was done. And now you've got maltene factories in every municipality in the plan to get an investor as soon as possible, if he's not there, and open up a certain drive. But to bring investors, you have to build infrastructure. You finance this infrastructure from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from these famous securities of value, as someone says. And when someone counts on how long it takes for Mom and Dad to retire, let them first calculate how long it takes for him to return to the Republic of Serbia's budget for traveling from Vranj to Belgrade, sitting in Belgrade. Well, then we can talk about who's what he's taken from and how much he's taken from.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64367	Thank you, colleague Arsic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Verica Radeta reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64368	I reported to the Rules of Procedure, and on the basis of article 107, because I think that my colleague Arsic was seriously offended by the President of the Republic a little earlier, because he was talking about the pensions of Mom and Dad, the reduced pensions. It is a rapper that constantly brings the President of the Republic to conferences as much as his parents, mom and dad have reduced pensions. It really doesn't make sense for MPs, and especially for the MPs, to insult the President of the Republic in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64369	Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic, member 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64370	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. I have clearly defined from my discussion whose parents it refers to, because as far as I know, the parents of the president of the Republic of Serbia live in Belgrade and the president of the Republic of Serbia have never travelled to Vranje, except in official visits, especially when he was an MP, especially while he was a city councilman in the town of Belgrade while living in the Old Town and traveling to Vranje. Now, that's not what the president of Serbia did. Another colleague, who lived in Vranj, I did live in Vranj for a year, at the service of the military, to clear up immediately, 363 days, but for this I did not charge travel expenses and as a national MP sat in Belgrade. So it's pretty clear who he's thinking of. What you're trying to tell me now, go to my car, 570,000 miles across, I bought a new car, so here you go, check it out and count how far it is to the Fireman and Belgrade and then back and count the days, here you go. I don't mind if you do. So don't throw it away and blame me for something I didn't say. It's true. The one who did this has no right to accuse anyone of taking something from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the warrant signed to travel from Vranja and did not leave Belgrade for five metres, and now he's saying someone's taken something. Well, it's not. He's been kidnapped.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64371	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (No) We move on, not to mention our parents anymore. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64372	Thank you, Chairman. Since it is Article 2 I absolutely agree with several previous speakers that the budget is the most important law for all citizens of Serbia and I really think that this budget that we are offered is balanced and that it is well balanced. We have already talked about what the targets set for 2020 are and therefore we say that the budget is developmental. But if we give ourselves a little more space and we look at the budget a little bit wider, we can also talk about the budgets of local self-government units, and we will also have something to brag about because without co-operation with the Republic, many projects in local self-government units would not be realised. I really want to express my satisfaction with the co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the city of Nis, and I want to thank you for the support that has been given to southern Serbia, because we remember that by 2012, the southern Serbian government had sealed and had absolutely no investment. As far as the budget is concerned, both the republican and local budgets, of course, are progressing in Nis according to plan for the construction of the Scientific and Technological Park. We, as a local self-government, have defined ourselves for the development of an IT sector in which many, especially young people, see the future. The founding of the park is, of course, closely related to the scientific community and to the university and opens up the possibility of forming companies based on innovation, research and that will enable collaboration between businesses and scientists. Nis will thus receive a regional centre for the development of innovative entrepreneurship, but above all a chance to promote projects and companies. This will give a completely different dimension to the development of the city, which is necessary, the development of the Nisav district, but also beyond. The construction of a scientific – technological park in Nis is imagined in phases and it is imagined that after the end of each phase, practically, this part that is done can be used immediately. Thus, with the completion of the first phase, when the Centre of the Faculty of Electronic Engineering was built and equipped, the section immediately began to be used and received by the first students. The second phase involves building a lamel that includes space for project implementation, space for support for entrepreneurship and space where academic-project dual education will take place that will connect young scientists with local companies. Finally, in the third phase, the Scientific and Technology Park building with complete infrastructure will be completed, which implies that innovative companies will also be able to obtain certain equipment for use to reduce investment and costs. I don't think I have to stress specifically the importance of all of this that I've talked about in the past few minutes and that Nis had really not had a better opportunity to develop before, in every sense and in every area. If we consider Nis as a major university center, we will see that the importance of this is even greater because we will be able to engage the Scientific Community and get expert analyses and expert opinions on various issues. Thanks to the construction of this Scientific and Technological Park, young scientists will get special space to show what they know and work in their country and stay in their country. The important aspect of SNS policy is to keep young people in Serbia, to school here, to live and work, to stay here with their families and with their friends, where they will be given security, and perhaps even as good conditions as in some more developed countries abroad. In this regard, Aleksandar Vukic announced that some 500m euros will be invested in scientific and technological parks and digitisation, and the same amount will be invested in apartments for young couples, where there will be opportunities for lower prices of squares, for discounts and for some grants. So, in the end, I would conclude that thanks to the reforms that have been implemented since 2014, which have been difficult for all our citizens and for the state, when Aleksandar Vukic was Prime Minister, however, these reforms have still produced results, we have money for everything we want to do today and to improve Serbia. On the other hand, we see from the draft budget that the attitude towards the state register will continue to be considered and domestically. Once again, I would personally support such a budget proposal, along with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, and all this I was talking about is the republican budget, but it also concerns the concrete development of the town of Nis as a unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64373	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in one of my previous exhibitions, I have proved how much money you have taken from the pensioners in Serbia and how large these amounts are in this previous period. In particular, at the amount of a pension of 50,000 dinars, you have taken a total of 282.888.14 from the 11th month 2014, and for the next 47 months. On average, it's just over 6,000 dinars or just over 50 euros a month and as we can see, it's huge funds. You still, Mr. Mali, refuse to admit the situation of the theft against the pensioners. Your answer to this particular data was that, in your words, they submitted to the pensioners the greatest burden of reform, which is why you thank them. The pensioners, Mr. Mali, have nothing to do with it, I've already said that. They demand that you return the money that they have earned fairly by their work. (Veroljub Arsic: They now have bigger pensions. Now, since we've been hearing for days and weeks how pensions are bigger today than they've ever been, I've done a little bit of that, Mr. Mali. Here, I've come up with official data and what might be best said, maybe even from the nominal pension height, which best says what pension movements are, they're just real pension growth rates that occurred in the previous period. According to official data in 2012, when you came to power, the average pension was 23,024,00 dinars and we'll take that amount as a basis. The real growth rate in 2012 was minus 2.2. So we've had a real pension drop compared to the previous period, and if we take that as a base, that's 100%, we're turning down 2.2, we get 97.8% from the base. In 2013, Mr. Mali, listen carefully and deny if anything is true, in 2013, the real pension drop was 3.5%. When this is calculated, pensions had a real value of 94.37% compared to the average pension in 2012. So the second year of your government and the further decline in the real value of pensions. What happens next? In 2014, the real pension drop continues and the decline is 2.3%, which brings us to the point where the pensions have 92.2% of the real value compared to the 2012 pensions. The year 2015 was specific. It was, as you say, the year of the greatest economic success, it was the government led by Aleksandar Vukic. Let's see what real pension growth was then, 2015 according to official data. Real pension growth is down 5.5%, or 5.5%, and that's absolutely the biggest drop in the last 10 years in the real value of pensions we've had. When this is calculated, we come to the fact that then pensions are worth 87.13% compared to the average pension in 2012, when you came to power. The year 2016 is finally something better and then we have a real pension growth of 0.1% and then from 87.13% to 87.22% of the value of the average pension in 2012. In 2017 despite what you say is financial consolidation, despite living in the golden age, despite being world investment champions, next year you'll probably be Olympic champions because the Olympic year, pension growth, the real pension growth rate is minus 1.2%. So fall again. With this downturn, we come to the fact that the pension in 2018 is 86.17% compared to the pensions of 2012 and that means that the pensions paid in 2018 are realistically lower by 13.83% compared to the average pensions paid in 2012. The average pension in 2018 is 25,278.00 dinars according to official data. If, as announced this year, the growth of the real pension rate, the average, is 3%, this means that it will be 88.76% of the base in 2012, i.e. it will continue to be 11.24% relative to 2012. This, Mr. Sinisha Mali, is a defeating data. So you're telling stories by heart, because there's no serious analysis of the economics that proves it. According to him, pensions are now between 13% and 18%. Well, you could have knocked and said, between 24% and 52%. But, real data, official government officials say pensions, i.e. the real value of pensions, are in constant decline and today these pensions are, as I said, 13.83% less than they were in 2012. Mr. Sinisha Mali, when do you think you can make up for your pensioners and give them back what they've earned? You are permanently, regardless of now and if you increase, by reducing the base over the previous years, you and those who have just retired for the past five years and all others who have since before 2014, when you started the kidnapping, you have permanently reduced everyone's pensions. All that you've reduced compared to the base that was calculated when they retired, all that's what you owe the pensioners and what we'll return from the SRS when we come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64375	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that we had the opportunity to hear how we champions in the region in all possible areas, then it was our turn to transfer some of our champions to other Balkan countries as well, so we decided to start a TV show. the Balkan Union or ‘Little Schengen’. We're in the light of our so-called. Renaissance, as can be heard from the address of the highest official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is now being joined with Albania, Northern Macedonia, BiH and we are making "little Schengen". What opportunity does Serbia seek in Albania's market? Do we today think that our economic perspective and future of relations in the Balkans can be through this "little Schengen"? What Serbian businessman is going to take that model? Well, it won't be any. This can help, as Vucic said, the placement of Albanian products in Serbia, and this shows that we are committed to it in fact through this initiative. Why did that come? It came as a comfort for something we saw that would eventually not happen, which is Serbia's EU accession. It's nothing, we heard the French president, but now we'll be admitted to the Balkan Union. Never mind, we'll be the best there is. If nothing else, the Union is the Union. Apart from not thinking about these things and taking everything for granted just to make someone like it, and not because it's better for our economy, we really can't identify the differences between DS and SNS as far as this economic sphere is concerned. We talked about subsidies this morning. It just grew in SNS time. Another developmental opportunity in Serbia, as presented by the Republic of Serbia, is the construction of so-called. National stadium. The minister said it was also an opportunity for our construction industry. So now we're going to build a stadium, so we're going to create a residential and business complex, so we're going to develop that whole part of the city, etc. Of course, what happened to some other countries that had similar projects will not apply to us. There's no reason, we're special. It doesn't matter how the Greeks went when they built facilities for that similar purpose for the 2004 Olympics, which they invested a lot of money and eventually nothing paid off. We, if God does, will organize a European championship with three other states, so we need it for that purpose, and everything else will flourish. So 250m euros are spent in Belgrade alone for something that is, at the very least, nebulous. It is not Serbia and our economy in such a state that it can afford the luxury of building national stadiums, especially when we see how many problems we have in all other areas, in some other environments in Serbia. Did we really get to that level? We know we're talking about German standards, Swiss formulas, etc., but that's not reality in Serbia. We're not at the level that we can afford to invest so much money in something that we know won't pay off, because it can't be worth it. We can't fool ourselves into bringing money, housing and business complexes, etc. That's not gonna happen. It didn't happen in either of those countries that dealt with it. Look what happened to the Olympic Winter Olympics complex in Sochi. It's empty today, it's invaluable. There is no reason for him to be in Serbia differently. It's not our economic chances, and that's where we won't find salvation. That tomorrow we make such an object, that we boast, that we take a picture, that there is somewhere to perform Zdravko Colic, that is not what is good for our economy because we saw that also at Bechtel, who will be engaged in the construction of the Moravski Corridor, so they will not hire Serbian subcontractors, but Turkish ones. Why would it be different now with the national stadium? So this relationship shows something that could be called non-domestic behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64377	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64378	By amendment. Dear Chairman, I have an amendment to the next member on the same subject, so I wanted to join my discussion of what my colleague Alexander said. So, I said that and in principle debate to Mr. Minister, he answered something, I would say not convincingly enough about this National Stadium. I'm here and we're all here today that we've heard dozens of times, but at least a dozen times, and maybe more words, such as doctorate, plagiarism, Gilas, former government. So dozens and dozens of times. None of that except eventually, come on, ex-government, it's not about the budget debate, and now that a colleague or I mention that National Stadium, then I hear some comments -- so what now again, why about it? Why? Because it costs 250m euros. It envisions 250m euros. There's a mistake not to us, we're talking about it, but I'd also say to colleagues of some of the opposition, who missed the opportunity to at least be here for the budget and for the budget to say their opinion, to hear their opinion, not just in the hall, here's about that National Stadium and all sorts of other things they have objections to. So it's not just, where happiness is that the problem is only the National Stadium, but it's a school example, it's a representative example, it's not a household relationship to the budget, I'd say maybe an easy-minded or one succumbing to my own propaganda and the illusion that Serbia has already solved its main problems so it can deal with such things as building national stadiums. So, I'd like to ask a specific question, I haven't arrived at a principle debate with Mr. Minister, is there a feasibility study on the eligibility of the construction of the National Stadium? So, very specifically, is this study done? It's a huge amount of money to just walk in on the basis of a free, obvious assessment that it will contribute to development, urban development, that it will be built around it by shopping malls, shopping malls, that tourists will come up with such a thing. So, I've asked some questions to the Ministry of Sports this summer and I've been given a pretty rough answer to that parliamentary question, how did it ever come up in the plan, based on what, what government decisions? I heard there was a government decision this summer, but not when and who was working and could MPs see that study on the justification of building a National Stadium? With that in mind, just to include this, we have a second item, even bigger, than 580m euros. It's for the subway, about the subway. Unlike the stadium, the subway needs Belgrade. No one will say it is not theoretically desirable, but the situation we heard here and by the president of the government and when the floods were recently and the sewers were poured out in many parts of Belgrade we heard that half or almost half of Belgrade did not have an arranged sewerage and an optimistic plan was announced that would be resolved and regulated over the next few years. I'd say, come on, even if we can't solve that sewerage, maybe we shouldn't rush that subway, even though I've seen some of them sell tickets in the pre-election campaign for that non-existent subway, but when we can go to the non-existent or future corridor, then we can drive to the future methroom. So, just that metro and that stadium are just a good illustration of a play, I'm trying to find the softest word, I'm not going to argue with you here, I'm going to be simply unreal about the country we live in, or the foundation of our own propaganda. For the citizens of this country, it is infinitely more important that we discuss it, so says Mr. Minister, we need a stadium because we will host, I don't know the League of Champions, a final or some European, world championship, so it will come back. First of all, we won't host these events, I could bet, and secondly, if we happen to be hosts, we won't come back, not to talk about what kind of low-level football is in this country, and it won't grow these branches and go out on a green football line if we build a national stadium, but as someone here suggested, we invest in basic sports, in school sports and physical culture. Anyway, I'll talk about it later, but I'm just stating this as an illustration. So, less in this debate, we have another day or two of these discussions, less about doctorates, plagiarists, Gilas and former authorities, and more about the concrete items in the budget that we defend, praise and criticise. Don't be sensitive to criticism, there's no opposition here to shout watch and bravo, even the government and the ruling majority, if she's reasonable she won't just yell watch and bravo, and especially it can't be expected of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64379	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64380	It seems amazing that there's still someone who doesn't understand. Replica. [[President: Is it a replica or by amendment?]] ... That there's still someone who doesn't understand it in this country, but well, if there is, it's ours to help establish a certain understanding. Serbia is no longer in a position to choose, in order that some would like to present it, whether it should deal with building infrastructures that apply, yes, and high-end sport, or instead deal with building basic infrastructure such as sewage, or rather invest in the quality of education, infrastructure for schools and new programmes. No, Serbia today thanks to the responsible, serious relationship and the results provided by Alexander Vukic and SNS's policies, finally in a position to do all of this and much more at the same time. We're in no position at all to necessarily choose whether we're just going to do this or just that, so let's see what's bigger priorities. We can, we're good enough to deal with this missing infrastructure like sewers. Whoever followed the video is already taking concrete steps to do it this year, next year, right where it's missing. When we talk about these larger projects, the highways, gentlemen, it's already been realized, completed, one open before, it seems to me, five months from today, the other a month ago. From two parts, make it two and a half and a little less than a month. We're talking today about starting the work on these that we're planning with this budget, which we've foreseen with this budget. It's a reality in Serbia today. And those objects that concern top-notch sports. Maybe someone once thought the same thing, thought the same thing when it came to building a Belgrade arena, and the reality was that the state would get the organization of a top event. Why don't we get it back in some other sport? Who can safely argue that Serbia, which today shows can be successful, that it can create, that it can build, so it builds its position in the world frameworks, will not host a major event. Who hoped two or three years ago that we would be able to represent European culture as one of its capitals? And that's the reality again, in Serbia this year. So we're talking about a country that's completely different from the perception that many people are used to, and because of it, it seems to me that they keep making mistakes, but the fact is that Serbia today that has these highways, which has these higher salaries and these higher pensions, is the least important thing, to tell you, Mr. Minister, is that you should explain to someone here when it says -- there were 23,000 thousands, then 25,000, but that 25 11% less 23. The least important thing is whether you should respond to such things, but for the Serbian citizens to understand, today all we needed, we successfully realise this elemental infrastructure, but also these programmes, which are really one real answer to the needs that are directed towards a future perspective. So, to our education. Is it reality or is it not that in Serbia today we have not thousands, tens of thousands are measured by fully equipped digital classrooms? The new education programmes that aim precisely at our young preparations to be competitive in these world scales, to understand, of course, also in foreign languages, but also in modern IT infrastructure, to be able to program with success. Does Serbia today invest in having higher education at a significantly higher level than it has ever been, which is why we have also formed a budget proposal that includes 800 million more funds from that budget for, for example, the University of Belgrade, which is why these lies from the former regimes that we mention, yes, just so we don't have to repeat their insubordination? To them it's amazing, they can't believe their eyes when they see that something like this is possible in Serbia, so they talk nonsense, but yes, it's Serbia to this extent drastically, positively changed, dramatically positively different, that today for those who are used to some completely overcome other times, dark times, it's hard to understand that such a thing is possible in Serbia today, and it is. So that's what Serbia sees. This is why Serbia has a budget proposal such as the one in which it does not have to choose between these things. Serbia takes care of its needs. Serbia provides the right answers to that kind of needs, and that is why Serbia is winning today. If some cannot recognize it and accept it, it is not terrible, let them continue to observe it long enough and make sure that this policy, the policy of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, which positively changes Serbia, will be in a position to show its results for a very long time, long enough for those who find it hard to believe at last some things to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64381	The word has the People's MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64382	Thank you. I won't ask for five minutes, as my speaker had, but I would just take the opportunity to try to wake up, Mr. Minister, with a few more issues and challenge him to react. I agree, and I won't deny at all that there are results, and I don't think I'm any weaker now because of it, or I'm giving in to the authorities if I say that some things have been done. Those roads... No one can deny that it is desirable and good, especially this Milos the Great, right, and some others who are finally finished and some who are getting ready. With regard to these roads, I asked the question, and it was the subject of some amendment to our former one, about this highway Nis – Merdare – Pristina – Durres, therefore, which is called the highway of peace here, so someone baptized him today by colleagues from the ruling majority, I don't think he's a priority, but we're not going to talk about it right now, I just want to say that maybe we could plan it a little bit more rationally. I'm glad that some things in the budget and in society work, but I said, something that you boast or praise about the ruling majority is, unfortunately, the result of a decline in unemployment, and that is, unfortunately, more draining of people from Serbia than much progress in employment. Average salary. I have to say that some of my colleagues from the opposition were irresponsiblely bidding, I remember right here too, so they yelled, if it was 500 euros, I don't know what, there were more of them who said it, and I always thought it was a little careless on their side, because everyone, you don't have to be an economic genius, so I know that it can be done by that little engineering, financially, to achieve it. Let's say you lower the euro, raise the value of the dinar compared to the euro, and you've already received or transferred the average salary of 500 euros. It's much more important what is the average, what is the salary of the largest number of Serbian citizens, than what you add up the highest and lowest, and then you divide and you get so-called. The average salary. We know both you and I, and God, and the statisticians that in reality most of the citizens of this country are not getting paid more. So, the largest number of citizens, over 50%, is this famous medium, not receiving more than 350- 360 euros in salary. So that's what the largest number of citizens in this country are receiving, and I say the average salary is some kind of little financial engineering, and that's why the opposition colleagues shouldn't have caught on that balloon, because if you lower another euro, or strengthen the euro from the euro, you put the euro down to 110 or 100 dinars, at least temporarily, you can say -- here we now have an average salary of 550 euros. So I look forward to any progress this country has made. I welcome, let's say, not to mention the budget, but every recognition of the independence of Kosovo achieved by our diplomacy, of course with the help and fruit of Russian and Chinese, that we do not lie, but anyway. These are positive results and various other things. This is why we cannot close our eyes over someone to highlight and boast as much as possible, close our eyes to incomplete balances, in front of the fact that Mr Petrovic also said during this discussion on the Finance Committee. I am just quoting and repeating his words that Serbia is lagging behind, so it is lagging behind all the countries of Eastern and southern Europe, that is, from our environment in terms of progress, or GDP growth. That's a fact. It was also said by competent financial experts. It's better than 3%, of course, than zero or minus one, it's not a dispute, but the fact is that in these last four, five, six years or seven years our region and the environment has been growing at a much faster rate, Mr. Minister, and that's also something we have to figure out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64383	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic right to replication, and then Minister Sinisa Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64384	You can hear a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen, in a congregation debate, but it does, for whatever reason, it's bad that the dinar course is stable compared to the euro, you know what, that's one of the bigger hits, as they say. So it's not good if it's a stable course of dinar, it's not good if the dinar is strong, but probably better to change that course again, as it was at the time of the former regime, this particular Dragan Gilas and his subordinated ensemble, 50% brother, from 78 dinars to 120 in four years alone. We remember how nice it was, we all enjoyed it so much that everyone would just want us back at that time. Hardly. It is certainly a good interest for Serbian citizens to be in a stable course and to be very nice, easy and accurate in calculating how much they are worth in euro-growing dinars, and to see that it is also growing nicely in euros. Is that right? Or maybe it's better when you change the value of 50%, so even God can't wash away as much as there was a story just a little while ago, something's actually shrinking, and it's just shrinking? They say - not good enough growth. They probably think again that a good minus 3.1 growth from that fantastic, record-breaking year of 2010. They say -- Serbia lags when there is, what was last year, Mr. Minister, plus 4.4% of growth. When it was at the top ten economies in Europe by growth, they say – lags. If you're in top ten, what happens to someone who's behind? It won't be. Last quarter plus 4.7, second in Europe, right after Hungary. He's behind. Will it be like that? It is expected for the last more than five and they say again – that means it is lagging behind. It won't be. So, if we're gonna talk seriously, these things need to be taken the right way. Mediana, a famous gymnastics discipline, because you like basic sports, which you like to talk about by yourself who politically exist on Twitter, say - the average salary of 500 euros. Okay, but the median, that's one quarter less, so that's, like, 360. We don't have any problem with that. Statistics have their categories precisely because they are defined in science. In Gilasov and the former 320-euro regime, the average. Do you know where the median was? Relatively the same, by a quarter less. Your median was 240 less, 230. Is that better than this today, so it's not, however you turn the parameters are today, and it's significantly better. If 50% are better in one sense, 50% are better in another sense. You can't get away from the truth. You can't convince citizens that when more people in the country received 200 and some euro, it was better, than today when so many received 50% more. You can't explain to them that the average salary, as much as you like, their 320, is better than the average of 500. Are we serious? Then let's do it. It can't go any other way. Last thing. One notorious fact that employment is increasing because people are leaving. Listen, look at the OECD stat statistics. We read it here. Unfortunately, for the entire two decades behind us, on average this OECD status says 40,000 people leave Serbia and when Dragan Gilas says no, today he leaves 100,000, and there were only five in my time, that you know he's lying, as well as everything else, as he lied about the arson book, as he lied about stories about Serbia exporting ISIS weapons and everything else he lies about. So it's not to be commended, it's big numbers. What are we doing today? That's exactly what we're trying to change, to stop it, to reduce those trends, and to know that it's a pure lie, because the number of employees can't grow that way. So, you've collected arrivals, departures, whatever you want, the number of people working is recorded as increased year by year. That it was possible to change in any way, so why wasn't it replaced by those great geniuses of the former regime? No fewer people left Serbia at their time, and their employment was dropping, and their unemployment grew. So for the same kind of phenomenon, they only had a drop and a rise, and a number of employees, and an average salary. Then how is it possible that the same things affect these same categories today? That's impossible. So, if we're going to talk seriously, it's known in our head that hundreds of thousands of new jobs in this country in the last few years are just, in the number of new companies, new plants this year. These are the reasons for these increases for you, and among other things, for the greater wages. At the very end, no one sold any tickets to the future. No, we're talking about a big, important, beautiful project that we seem to agree on, and it's good that at least we agree that Belgrade needs it, and that's the subway project. For the first time, the seriousness of the state is seen by the budget's budget plans. In 2009, when this Dragan Gilas spoke to you – it will be a metro in two years, it has been a sale of empty and hollow stories and, more importantly, to all that they have done, what they have desolated the country, and they themselves have personally, unfeelingly richly, sold the future of this country, and that is the biggest problem in the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64385	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64386	Let me start with the last one, so that's the subway. Stop it, I advise you, you will simply obey or you will not, lest you take Gilas out of your mouth. I don't see what your problem is, I sometimes wonder if you're afraid of him as a political opponent or maybe you're calling him and wishing for him as a political opponent, so you deliberately target him and position him as the main enemy. Anyway, so whoever here is speaking critically to the authorities including me to my colleagues, even my colleagues on the left, right away, before or after he's clogged or trying to keep his mouth shut, mentioning the remanded personality. So the tickets were shared, sold, that was one marketing stunt in the pre-election campaign, I'm talking about the subway. Someone likes it, and someone doesn't. It's nice that the funds are defined. You say that these are now in the budget in principle, of course defined these funds and the possibility of their withdrawal. What I think is less beautiful, I mentioned to Mr. Minister, through this article 80m euros in loans from the French Republic vault in some way prejudges or as prejudges, in fact, that France will be, if there is a subway, a performer and a French company at all. We know China is also interested in this subway project. No one came out of my sight, no more China, but France, but I think maybe that Chinese offer should be seriously considered and there are indications that it's more favourable. So do not prejudge that we have predicted the withdrawal of 80m euros from the French vault to somehow allow the foot to be placed in the door for building a metro that costs hundreds of millions, or more than two billion. So that's about the subway. As far as these other things are concerned, let's be realistic. It is that employment is growing somewhat, but there has been much more unemployment, much more reduction, which is partly due to the way it works, and one part, or unfortunately, much more because of the fact that many people and these people are working, young people, and my God, and in the mature age, are increasingly leaving Serbia. It's been that long before, it's not controversial, but for the last four, five, six years, that trend is getting stronger and bigger. And that's what we're worried about, and that's that there aren't any of those regular masters you can't find, not just doctors and nurses. So, it is that there is also some increase in employment I will not deny it, but unfortunately much more falls unemployment and it falls again and by some engineering, or some kind of creative bookkeeping by easily removing people from the record and by making every activity, every job is temporary and occasional books as employment and I say, first of all, because people are leaving mass. I'm sorry that some of my colleagues also said that here these two days, it's not now for two weeks, two days most ministers or at least half the ministers could sit here. I have also had objections concerning the division of the Ministry of Culture, Novi Sad as capitals of culture and some other items, which are related to specific ministries, from environmental to culture and something else. So it's a little exemplary to expect the minister to keep everything in his head, regardless of his many praises here during today, but that he can hold all these reasons in his head because of the check some split and some sum defined for one or another thing. So, why is there no Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic so we can talk about leaving, about coming? Why isn't there a culture minister? Why don't we talk about it? But whatever. As far as this basic subject is concerned, I'm not saying everything is bad. Far from that, it wasn't bad when you criticized the previous government, but if it could be better and it had to be better, we shouldn't have any doubts about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64387	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64388	Well, if someone still doesn't understand, I'll do it one more time, this time a little slower, so you don't get a word out of it. Nothing less, just more. But no less people left the country at a time when the former regime was at its head, I must say when unfortunately it was at its head. So how come the same mechanism didn't make unemployment fall? You're saying it's a mechanism for unemployment, so how did unemployment grow? How's it going? It's not less. Once again, OCD STAC, that's what the report is called, you go on the site nice, type in and read it. This is done by an international organization that has nothing to do with us or our will or our political interest and take a good look at it yourself. Some 40,000 are still in question from year to year, not employment. Unemployment grew and grew and grew and reached 25%. So, it's all about other things. It's completely different. When we talk about increasing employment, don't let me read it to you again, trust your eyes, take a nice RZS report and read how much employment is growing. It's that simple. We don't have to tell you anything else. See for yourself, and publish the truth that you have come to. As for the question of whether we fear the former regime and its prominent representatives, starting with the yellow tycoon Gilas Dragan, I must confess to you, you are right, we are afraid. We're so afraid that they've decided to run away with their heads no matter how much they're not allowed to go out on our election night. Who do you think is telling you who's afraid of whom and how much? Not only are they so scared of us that they won't go to the election, but they seem to have scared everyone else. Do you see how far that's come? To the fact that from the entire former regime, therefore, from all parties to DOS representatives, a single representative is present today. However, the one who didn't read the OCD STAC, but it came to that extent, has escalated. The future in Serbia defines the results, and this future is seen today through these larger salaries, through these larger pensions, through this infrastructure that includes building subways, which at the time when unemployment only grew, the standard just fell, the wages were only lower, that the idea could not be imagined, and that is the essence of the difference. Whoever doesn't believe that, freely, let him analyze the reports himself, let him read for himself, let him think for himself, and I'm afraid, when that happens some time later, and believe him will be an overthinker, in which this successful policy established by Aleksandar Vukic, which the SNS will eventually only catch himself wanting it or not, agrees with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64389	Right on line, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64390	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, around the number of employees, increasing employment or reducing unemployment, to refer to what MP Orlic said, in 2012, two million 228,343 employees. In September 2019, two million 863,500 employees. Difference of newly employed 635,157. So, even in the time before we led the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the young and the others were leaving Serbia, and what we heard was quite true, but the unemployment rate was growing. We now have an increase in the number of employees. Otherwise, for your information, in 2012, the employment rate in Serbia was 35.5%, in September 2019 49%. Unemployment rate from 25.9% in 2013, at 10.3% at the end of the second quarter of 2019. So, no doubt we're on our way. Of course, what I'm going to say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we're not happy with this result either, we're fighting for new investments, we're fighting for new jobs, we're fighting for everyone living in Serbia to have a chance to make money for their family, to earn their bread, and that's a policy we're not going to give up on. So I'd like to talk one more time about arguments, talk about numbers. When it comes to the employment rate, the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia is undoubtedly growing. What is our desire to continue with this trend through this responsible economic policy, ultimately and through this drawn-up budget for 2020, and to speed it up, so we are also going with the tax and salary-based business, so we are also going with tax incentives for employment, especially young people, and it gives everything and will only give a good result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64391	Thank you. My colleague Vukadinović, on what grounds? By amendment to respond to the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64392	I'm glad Mr. Secretary woke up and got involved in the discussion, and we'll work on it tomorrow in that spirit. You know, it wasn't a long time ago that saying -- statistics on our dick, what you want to paint, of course, those trends and those numbers are important, but also important and context. You, Mr. Minister, certainly know that one part is, and I'm not going to ask for new replicas, one part, the good part of this figure, and these percentages that you mention and that are favourable, are because the government, the previous government, I'm not justing anyone, and I'm not part of, I don't know, some of these or those governments, they've come together with the world's greatest economic crisis in the last decades, not to say in the last century of that crisis of the 20s and 30s, and that's a fact. So, around the world, the employment rate was dropping, the whole world was falling, or the negative growth rates were budget deficits, and all countries were more or less torn out of it, more or less successfully. So that's also the thing that we have to keep in mind, as the country is now more favourable and more favourablely in debt to the country. That's true, that our bonds, now they have much less, which we're broadcasting, are much less rates, but the problem is that now these rates in the whole world are less. So once the percentages were 5, 6, 7%, and now they're about 1, 1.5 or 2%. So that's the consequence of one general and world trend. I mean, your authority is, and you should look forward to it, coincided with one, conditionally speaking, favourable trend in the world economy. This favourable trend is not used enough and that is enough for you to boast about these percentages and figures. But unfortunately, I think we're going to be paying for a long time of psychologically, symbolically, that pay cut, now I'm not talking about pensions, but especially about wage cuts, which may have been necessary. I don't think so, but it left a very bad message for the people and they're mass rushing out. That's what I'm saying, the most qualified part of the workforce, a bunch of tens of thousands of young people who probably won't come back even if your percentages are more successful in the next period. It is a fact that will create a serious hole, a serious problem and demographic and economical in the coming years for Serbia whoever is in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64393	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64394	Well, also the standard part of the repertoire or the end of that repertoire that we already know well. When all the other arguments are exhausted, we finally come to the story, but you know what, the planet turns like that. Turn around, we can't do any different than the whole planet. Well, then, the whole planet was in trouble once, so we were bad too, and today the whole planet is fine, so we're fine. Which should mean it doesn't matter who's in our power or what he's doing, because all the more force he's going to do is do it himself. It's not like that. If that's a completely wrong attitude, well, you can figure out as many examples as you want, you don't need me for, as much as in these coves that may be better today than in the previous years, you can find bad examples, some that are worse and the other way around. In 2008 to 2012, yes, we know everything, there was a crisis, but it wasn't the same for everyone and it wasn't just bad for everyone. Let me get this straight to the end and make it perfectly clear. Serbia was bad, perhaps other countries, especially Serbia. Do you know who he was okay with? It's a clear indication that there's a big difference between who's in power and what he's doing. Let's just say, that government was fine. Do you know how Dragan Gilas went with his companies from 2008 to 2012? The whole of Serbia in a minus, the whole of Serbia in a bull, and do you think he's the one who got pulled away by that cosmic inert you're talking about, so he's got to suffer, too? He didn't suffer at all, only his income grew. From year to year, he only grew a conto on his accounts, all four of his companies, so hundreds of millions were better than the period when the problem for Serbia began, in hundreds of millions of euros. Do you know how he grew up in the market for those advertising seconds in the media? It only grew from year to year, especially those crisis years from 2008 to 2012. So, for all fate, it wasn't equal and it didn't matter who was wondering and what moves it made. They knew very well that they were making moves that were good for them, but unfortunately for Serbia alone, only for them. They didn't care about the people, they didn't care about the state. The fact that we've failed don't blame comets or meteors, it's known whose responsibility it is, as we're not asking for someone to ask us today tomorrow, is it hard for you, has a crisis hit you so you couldn't handle it until the end. We don't want that kind of justification, we're not looking for that kind of justification. We're just asking to respect the result, to appreciate it done. Well, when it's better, and somehow it turns out that everything is much better than it was at the time of those pests from the former regime, that it's just being properly valued and appreciated. You know, just what we're doing here, what we're planning to increase standards and even bigger wages, which we're planning more investment that will be quality and more significant, better, to include bigger salaries offered to young people hired here, just because we're planning apartments that are accessible to these young people, opportunities to buy their car, to make what we call a Serbian dream come true. We do all the good interests of the state, the interest that means that these young people have much more reasons, much more solid reasons to stay in this country, to create their families here, to build their future here, thus building their own country, and that is the best possible answer to the question of what Serbia needs, the best possible answer to the question, in what way Serbia can build its future, its perspective that will certainly be significantly better than in times of those who today complain about the cosmos and the cosmos of extracts, and it cannot explain whether this cosmos has given them hundreds of millions, tens of millions in real estates, only fairies and swimming pools, or yet someone who has more earthly gifts to them, someone who has something to do with them, their environment and their pals with whom they've shared prey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-25-0.u64395	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
