ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, information has emerged in recent weeks, as the government of Serbia has engaged a prominent lobbying company in the United States, so that the company would influence the position of the State Department and the US administration, related to the Kosovo and Metohija issue, to change. In line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the foreign minister, information, whether it is true that the Government of the Republic of Serbia believes that the involvement of the company's lobby can change the US's position on such an important issue, such as the KIM issue. Does anyone think they can be paid, change their view of recognition and even sponsoring Kosovo by the United States? The president of the Republic of Serbia once said that the lobby groups that will be hired serve to prepare Serbia for arbitration with the so-called. KIM republic, in terms of taxis that have been in effect for more than six months. I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the President of the Republic not to go to arbitration, because the arbitration behind which the so-called so-called arbitration would stand. The international community, which is a euphemism for the most powerful Western countries, cannot help Serbia resolve the issue in the sprawl's interest. Remember what happened to today's Brcko district in Republika Srpska, so arbitration was torn up Republika Srpska to Brcko, as well as when authorities thought a territorial dispute would be resolved in terms of establishing a border in Republika Srpska. If Serbia requires arbitration, it is not in line with the announced and declarative fight for the preservation of the KIM in Serbia. It is clear that six months after the introduction of a 100% taxi on goods from central Serbia and US stances and other Western forces, according to which the mechanisms to change this, it is clear that we are expected to deal with it. Furthermore, we will be expected to recognise KIM's full independence and allow UN membership. Last week, an immortal regiment was held on Victory Day in Nis, led by Pristina Corps Commander General Vladimir Lazarevic. As a result, Kyle Scott, otherwise the colonial manager of Serbia, commented in a non-diplomatic scandalous way and called General Lazarevic a war criminal. He disgraced the state of Serbia and I refer to the government of the Republic of Serbia as a matter of measures taken, diplomatically, of course, to let the US ambassador know that he cannot treat the host country in such a way, that he must follow the diplomatic protocol and that it is not his to comment on our events, whether they are official or unofficial. I'll remind you that Kyle Scott at a school in Apatino showed the students a map on which KIM territory is separated from Serbia. What is the reaction of the authorities, can we tolerate the American ambassador's behaviour and is it possible that he is the main man today in Serbia and that he is responsible for both the President of the Republic and the Government?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54247	A colleague of mine, Mirjana Dragaš, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54248	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, today as part of the possibility of asking a parliamentary question, I would like to remind you of an important date yesterday. On May 15th, it was declared the World Family Day, and the family is the most important cell of every society and condition of the survival of a nation. For my parliamentary group, i.e. for the SPS, this is an extremely important issue that can only be resolved with the first organised and very well-organised state aid. The Socialist Party of Serbia, since its founding, has adopted the Declaration on Population Policy and Rehabilitation of Population, and has repeatedly repeated it at each congress and in its party documents. Even then, problems were defined, which is that the population is shrinking, young people are harder to decide on marriage and children, natural growth is negative, that we are getting older and that the average age of the population in Serbia is 43 years, that 15% of the population is younger than 15 years old and 20% older than 65, that migration has become large. The basic question is, in fact -- how do you focus on solving this problem? For the first time in 2014, the government adopted a special resolution, which does not have a special ministry, but has determined that this issue of population policy and population renewal problems deals with Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who, both as an expert and as a man, has worked very hard on this issue by gathering the profession, science, many other institutions and adopting a series of documents, beginning with the UN Declaration, the EU, to create a basis for introducing this issue in an organised manner in the agenda of active issues of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, I would now ask the question – which of the measures adopted, according to their assessment, have so far given the best results, which all measures are being implemented in 2019, what is co-operation with local communities? For example, it is known that in the first year of work of this resort, funds were provided for assistance in 15 municipalities and 130 million dinars were set. In 2018, 500 million were provided and aid was sent to 61 local self-government, while the following year 150 million were already directed for these purposes. Of course, this trend should continue, growth is obvious, but still insufficient in relation to the size of the problem, we all consider it, although the real effects of the new measures in the long run must wait and not be seen until a few years ahead. In addition to the measures introduced, of course immediately and the profession and the ministers and the public and MPs, new measures and improvements are needed, and as far as we know, amendments and additions to the law are proposed, among other things, on the financial support of the family with children, which we hope will soon be in front of MPs. So the public is interested when we can expect this law, what measures and improvements are proposed, and not only to be cosmetics? In doing so, there is still a need to take great care of what social measures are, the social policy measures, although they are indisputable and these are the types, but what are, above all, the measures aimed at addressing population problems, and these objectives are nevertheless different. Of course, such things must always be taken into account within the scope of the state. What's important to notice? The current law has introduced new measures. They have been improved, but the public has immediately turned to that negative segment that has not shown sufficient financial outcome, so we believe that we need to underline the importance of the law, the importance of the measures introduced, the intention, the goal and the organisation in solving these problems and these issues, the perception, the weight of the problem and the long-term nature of these tasks. In this sense, I believe that what is happening in the portfolio of Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic should be fully assessed in a positive sense that the efforts of the Minister of Science, the professions involved, the entire government, the president of the state and the president of our party, are directed all together to change events, to keep this dynamic alive and to make it bigger and better every year. This interaction of all factors, in fact, gives the best results and has our support. Finally, I mean, this brings the right solution and makes the measures that will surely be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54249	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54250	I thank the chairman. My fellow MPs, I would like to ask a few questions regarding the particular problems of people living in southeastern Serbia, particularly people on the territory of the Ninth District. I can say a few nice and commendable things about the reconstruction of the railway that started with the work, where the work is really being prepared the most, is doing a complete reconstruction of the railway from Nis, through Svrljig, Knjižvec, according to Zajecar, down towards Prahovo, which is a big thing for those of us who live in that part of Serbia, which is a really big sign after, maybe 70 years of doing this kind of construction of the railroad. In this way we have a great real chance to secure a safe placement of products, goods, services, everything that goes from the port of Prahovo, Bora, the Borsko mine towards us, that is, towards Nis and beyond. What's said is very important to us. One more thing is very important for us, and this is the conclusion of Corridor 10, where in one section, right here towards Sofia, that part of the road ends, which means that we will get to what I was saying very soon, that there will be payment ramps, so-called – closed system of payment ramps and where in the period that is coming, for all of our people who come from Zaječar, Književci, Srljig, towards Nis that if we went across the highway to pay for that crossing, that is to pay for the payment ramp. I've talked about it before, and I've talked about it, and I've been looking for it, and I expect that we're going to have to do a reconstruction of the road, because it's necessary when we set up that payment ramp, in part of the Malcanic loop, it's going to be necessary to do a reconstruction of the road, a continuation from Malcana loop to the entrance to Nis, it's what's called Knjaževacka Street, which was in bad shape, which was owned by the state of Serbia by 2010, but then some experts from 2010 switched it to being the city's intelligence of Nis. We should do it, reconstitute that path. I talked to Director Drobnjak and our Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Zoran Mihajlovic, and I expect that he will quickly enter the reconstruction program of this part of the road because this road is very important, it will be a very important traffic station that will operate because many of us who travel this part of the Master's road from Nis to eastern Serbia are now going on the highway because it is in a much better condition. I would ask the question, since I am sure that the state of Serbia, our president, normal and our government will end everything that has been started, that this part of the extension from Malcana loop to Knjaževanja Street, to the entrance to Nis, will be done very quickly, put into operation to be as designed. We expect to have another alternative solution, which is that there is already a project to build another alternative road that goes from Malcana loop to Niška Banja. My question now, in particular, is, since all this is done, ends, is being prepared, and will very quickly enable public lighting, lighting and Malcanic loops because there is a really great frequency of traffic, I think it is really necessary and I know that it is put into some programme and the roads of Serbia and the city of Nis, and lighting and public lighting in that part of the Malcanic loop, it will really be very important for all of us because it is a great frequency of traffic. Normally, it will give an even better look and security for all of us who are going this part of the road, because there are already a number of these economic operators that are very serious economic operators and who have a very good job. It would be good to do public lighting from the Malcanic loop to the continuation of Bookie Street, because it's really very necessary for all the people who live there. Once again, I am sure it will be completed with the support of the government, with the support of our President of Serbia who has been to Nis several times, both as prime minister and as president of the state, rather than as some previous prime ministers from Nis, which is a big question mark for them. Now I'd like to say a few things about cooperatives, about the Association of Serbia, which I'm going to talk about later, when some point comes and I'm going to ask some concrete questions. I would take the opportunity to congratulate all Orthodox believers on the glory of Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54251	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for information and an explanation? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54252	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and regarding the near adoption of the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War and members of their families. Namely, as our public is known, there are hundreds of thousands of citizens in Serbia who fought in the 1990s to protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the state of Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Of that number, there are about 50,000 members of the Republika Srpska Army who have fought honestly and honestly for their people and for their country since 1991. The ministry of labour, employment, martial arts and social affairs has prepared a draft of the law. Unfortunately, the draft did not accept our request for all members of the Republika Srpska Army to be recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. So, from 1990 to 1995. Personally, I believe that this draft law that does not provide for this solution is not correct, is not fair and is discriminated against by 50,000 members of the Republika Srpska Army. I will list a few of the facts that contribute to my thesis that this draft should, and especially the future law on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian wartimes and members of their families, introduce this provision. Namely, the first reason - the state has admitted to all officers, officers and civilian persons who have been serving JNA wartime throughout the double-term war. The question arises -- who did these officers and the officers of the Krajina army command, if they were granted a wartime internship throughout the war, and their fighters didn't? Secondly, the Republic of Croatia has fully equalised the rights of members of the Croatian Defence Council from BiH with the rights of members of the Croatian Army. Therefore, Croatia considers all members of the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Army to be part of the same army. Thirdly, I would like to remind you that in 1993, Croatia made a decision for all NDH armed forces, who were still alive at that time, to be paid their pensions and to be recognised for a double duration of participation in Ustasha and Domobran units for the period 1941 - 15 May 1945, and since 16 May, if they were in captivity, to be recognised for their dual-term work experience. Therefore, members of Ustasha domobran formations received at least eight years of work for participation, where they actively worked on a genocide against the Serb people during World War II. Croatia, according to the 2013 data, stands out at an annual level of 45m euros to pay pensions to surviving Ustashas, natives and members of their families. Finally, in 1951, Germany passed a law that also paid pensions to the Nazis and their co-workers from other countries. Today we have the fact that surviving Nazis from the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, France, Belgium, Croatia, Slovenia, are receiving a pension from the German state. These are all the reasons behind the fact that I repeat, the Ministry of Labour should include in this law and all members of the Republika Srpska Army during the public debate, i.e. to recognise their wartime service throughout the double-term war and to correct a great injustice against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54253	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session was invited to attend Minister Zoran Djordjevic, with his associates. The word has a People's Messenger, as authorized, Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54254	Dear Vice-President, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will talk about the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the Novi Sad - Subotica - the state border, Kelebija. At the fifth joint session of the government of Serbia and Hungary on 15 April this year, a series of agreements were signed in Saturday, 11 agreements. At the session, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Zorana Mihajlovic held talks with the Hungarian Minister of Innovation and Technology, Lasslo Palkovic, on joint projects by the two countries in the area of infrastructure and traffic. One of the topics was the modernisation and reconstruction of the Belgrade railway – Budapest. In principle, the talks agreed that Serbia would soon sign a financial agreement for this part from Novi Sad to Saturday, and Hungary would sign a contract to perform the work of the entire railway from Budapest to Belgrade. As far as the Labour Implementation Treaty is concerned, the tender ended in Hungary on 25 April this year and will be signed by 25 May this year. The total investment will last about five years. We have before us a contract that, if we give authority to sign, Serbia will carry out its part of the job. As for the entire Budapest – Belgrade railway, in Corridor 10, crossing our country, this part is about 185km long and accounts for 21% of the entire Corridor 10 railway line crossing Serbia. The important part of this railroad is from Novi Sad to Sudotica and to the border, and this section of the railroad is about 97.5 kilometers long. As far as the entire railroad is concerned, the trains are on this track, on this route at a speed of 37, 38 kilometers per hour and the entire road from Novi Sad to Saturday takes about two, two and a half hours. It should be pointed out that this railroad was first handed over in 1883, so 136 years ago. So, that's enough of the old railroad. What is the international significance of the entire railway from Budapest to Belgrade, meaning, the entire Corridor 10B, part of the traditional railway transport of the corridors for Europe's connection, can tell the whole Western and central Europe with Greece, Turkey and the Middle East. So, there's a lot of great importance in this railroad. As regards the national programme for public railway infrastructure for the period from 2017 to 2021, this programme also lists this project of modernisation of the railway from Novi Sad to Subotica and to the Hungarian border. The subject of the project is the modernisation of the existing single-circuit rail line Corridor 10B in the modern two-way line for mixed passenger and freight traffic, with a train speed of up to 200 km per hour. The reconstruction of this railway from Belgrade to the state border to Hungary, following this reconstruction, trains will move up to 200km per hour, as I said, and will be completed as planned by 2023. The whole modernisation of this railway is one of the most significant infrastructure investments in our region by the People's Republic of China. As history shows, there is no economic development without the railway. It is important to know that the first commercial railway in the world was opened in 1830 in the UK. By 1850, some 40km of railway was built in Western Europe, while only 4,000 kilometres of railways were built in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, so 10 times the track, which is why the development of these western countries was higher than the rest of the world. The project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Belgrade railway – Budapest, as I said, is one of the most significant infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia, whose joint realization was agreed at the level of the president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, China and Hungary. At the 7th summit of the heads of the Government of the People's Republic of China and 16 Central and Eastern European countries, a commercial contract was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese performer on 6 July 2018. A billion-dollar contract and 162 million dollars were accepted. This commercial contract includes services, procurement, construction, delivery and installation of all necessary elements for the reconstruction of the railway section between Novi Sad and Subotica and from Sudotica to the Hungarian border, in the length of 108km. With this contract and this construction, if it ends by 2023, we get one such rail that meets all the conditions of the basic corridor of the trans-European transport network. What kind of contract is this? What elements does this contract have? Under what financial conditions is this contract made up? The amount of $988m is for credit, which is 85% of the value of the entire commercial contract and has a Republic of Serbia so-called. participation or your own 15%, which is $174 million in dollars. The contract is signed for 20 years and at a fixed interest rate of 2% per year. SVM MPs think this is a very, very important project regarding the modernisation of the entire railway infrastructure in Serbia and will therefore vote in the voting day for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54255	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Then we move on to the list of registered MPs. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54256	Ladies and gentlemen, the theme of investing in the travel network, especially in highways, is one of the most important for the country and for the citizens. Therefore, the Justice and Reconciliation Party gives full support to the Government's orientation on the seriously investment programme in roads, in particular the highway corridors. We look forward to every metre of new road and highway, and we are especially glad that, here, we have new steps to advance the construction of Corridor 11 away from Preljina, Čačka, according to Požega and are eager not to stop at it, but to take the next step as soon as possible, and this is the direction of Ivanjica, Peshter and further to Bolar. All of these steps so far are very important, but in fact, the real role of this Corridor 11 highway will be the moment it connects to that part coming from Montenegro. True, I would like to suggest that we consider the possibility of a concession investment in highways, given that we have not had similar cases so far. Of course, what seemed to have been giving its results so far, but concessions can significantly facilitate the country, especially from further borrowing, and on the other hand, the practice has shown that the concession to build highways is very often given to the quality of the road itself for the reasons that the financiers themselves and the contractors themselves are interested in the quality of the road. When you compare, say, highways financed from state funds or loans with concession highways, you will clearly notice that those working through concessions are actually more expensive, which indicates that the fund itself, or the contractors, care for the highway to be more quality, independent of price, and then looking for a better route, no matter how much it costs, although there are more tunnels, more bridges, but that means more quality, for the reasons that these quality, by returning concessions, or profit, actually make up for that difference in the investment itself. I also look forward to the commitment to start building highways to Sarajevo as soon as possible. True, I still have a mild reserve, too much of it seems to me that we will get two highways, one via Bijeljina and Tuzla, further Zenica towards Sarajevo, and the other by Požega via Užica, Visegrad and further towards Sarajevo. So it's about huge investments, billions. I'd like to get started as soon as possible or at least one of them built. Our idea was to design the highway towards Sarajevo in terms of historical and natural roads, as well as what would cost the least. That's why we came up with the idea that from Sarajevo to the east, the shortest route, to Corridor 11, which would give one investment of about 120km to Sarajevo with Belgrade, via Corridor 11, a link between Sarajevo and Podgorica, through the same Corridor, and certainly the shortest link to Sandzak, which would allow for the continued bonding of highways coming from the east. But I think the definition that the whole country is networking through highways is something that is very important and finally that going down south is definitely going to be useful for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54257	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54258	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Minister Djordjevic with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, will no longer protect anyone in Serbia from party law or material status, or the position that is taking place in society, and that is the fundamental difference between us from the ranks of SNS and those across the way from us who represent and again want to represent the government in Serbia, and who are depicted in the image and work of Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Dilas, and those who burned and burned Serbia. Our commitment as a SNS is really a fair fight against crime and corruption, and that's not really a question. I am convinced that in the years ahead, we will really achieve even better results when it comes to fighting corruption and crime. We have shown that we have a political will and that we can change things for the better in this country and when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, when it comes to the law of lobbying which, to remind you, and many developed countries of the Council of Europe have not adopted and do not have as part of their judicial system. The same is true when it comes to a very important law that represents an anti-corruption measure, and above all I mean the Alert Act. Also, I would like to remind all citizens of Serbia and my dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament that on 1 March of last year, 2018, the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the authorities in the fight against organised crime, corruption and terrorism has entered into force, and the accent in this law has indeed been placed on the detection of corrupt and financial crimes. The D.A.'s office is in charge of organized crime. In addition to Belgrade's headquarters, there are three other regional centres tasked with processing those cases, so-called. high corruption, where property value exceeds 200 million dinars. It's done a lot at the Justice Department in this previous period, when it comes to the education of our judges, our prosecutors. New functions are being introduced, and these are financial forensics, and so we show that our society, our judiciary, is moving forward with the trends of developed EU countries, as well as the good practices that exist in the world. What was part of the Serbian opposition doing at the time? They hoped we would not accept Igor Juric's initiative, founder of the late Tijana Juric Foundation. That foundation, I'll remind you, has collected more than 160,000 signatures. Part of the Serbian opposition accuses us of not accepting it, and today at this session, all these days, this week, when we discuss in the Fifth Regular Session and when the amendment of the Penal Code and Initiative of the Foundation on the Agenda is now empty, you see the benches across the street. They choose to fight differently. Instead of parliament, they choose the street, expensive restaurants and various performances they perform in every part of our Serbia. Also, the manner of the previous government, I would say, was to benefit from, that is, trying to benefit from the tragedies, the loss of human lives, the death of children, to try to get cheap political points. It is also on the agenda to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, but it is also important to the Anti-Corruption Act. What's part of the Serbian opposition doing? He is also absent from today's session, choosing to camp in Belgrade, attack construction sites in Belgrade, prevent workers from doing their jobs, fight traffic signs in this country, and are simply ready for any street performance, but we have these street performances, dear Mr. Arsic, had opportunities to look at other countries in the environment and in Northern Macedonia, in Ukraine. These are simply the already seen scenarios in both our environment and the countries in the world, so it just can't surprise us. From this point on, I would like to support the initiative of the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, who spoke of parliament as a place where different opinions are faced and urged all MPs to return to parliament, because parliament is a place where debates are debated, not streets, by foreign embassies, rather than expensive restaurants where we can see the leaders of the opposition's works. In the follow-up to the session of today's regular session, it is the second part of the agenda, we are discussing important international agreements, loans signed by our country's Republic of Serbia with important financial institutions and banks. Today I will talk about item 11 of the agenda, and it concerns the adoption of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, which concerns the project to improve trade and traffic in the Western Balkans, with the application of a multi-phase programme approach, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'll remind you, this important international loan agreement was signed on 7 May this year. On behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, he was signed by Finance Minister Sinisa Mali. The main objective of this law is to deepen this trade integration of the Western Balkans, which will be implemented in two phases that will last five years on the basis of this programme. The first stage includes the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. The amount of this loan will be 35m euros, and the deadline for the implementation of this loan is 2025. It is an important regional project aimed at reducing trade costs and increasing transport efficiency in the Western Balkans. This agreement will make our country an even more attractive place for foreign investment, because we cannot, when we talk about the Western Balkans, ignore the market, the size of that market. It's about 20 million people. Many of our companies now have difficulties, barriers when they operate and when they export products beyond the borders of this country. They have really big lines at the border crossings. This agreement and the implementation of this successful project of this barrier will now remove itself in practice. When it comes to European integration, we really care and want to apply those examples of positive practices to our regional co-operation. A good example is regional co-operation and certainly represents the establishment of a Visegrad Group in 1991. In 1991, signatories in the Hungarian town of Visegrad agreed, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, to want to develop their regional co-operation in the area of security, economy and energy and major enlargement in 2013, when these countries became full-fledged EU members, they developed faster and better, and now they have constant communication, which proved to be good. The results of the work of the Government of Serbia are really visible and it is not just about regional co-operation and numerous implemented infrastructure projects. Finally, in all the media, we can see that the Gredelic ravine has been overcome, that the Gredelic ravine has been breached, that the southern arms of Corridor 10 have been realised, and thus the images of Serbia are changing. She's modern now, better, more successful. We have shown that we can do more and better when it comes to the realisation of capital infrastructure projects. Serbia has made progress and I really believe that we will continue to realize it, transform our society, reform it in the best direction, so that citizens living in our country can live better and better. On the agenda of the Fifth Regular Session, there is also the Law on the Prevention of Corruption which and how it changes the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency. New cases to be investigated by the Agency are being introduced, the circle of the person to whom the report relates, anonymous reports and extraordinary checks of income reports and property of the officials are being introduced. We want this new law to remove all those shortcomings in the old law, to tighten the control of public officials' assets. The fight against corruption is not only a condition for our European integration, but must be a fight that takes place independently from the European integration process. It must be our daily struggle, because corruption is indeed the greatest evil in our society. At the time of digitization, you can now click on your keyboard to find out what countries have the greatest perception of corruption in their citizens, which are corruption affairs. You also have a number of EU member states that are not immune from corruption in their ranks when we talk about high-ranking state officials. We had a corruption affair in Sanader in Croatia, and we also had a big "Atlas Group" affair in Montenegro today, which also has political earthquakes in Montenegro and whose battles, and octopuses had corruption in 2008 in the ranks of the top government in Serbia. What is the situation in Serbia and what is the situation in Serbia, when it comes to corruption? The Global Corruption Perception Index, although not the most ideal method, has shown that there is still plenty of work to do in the fight against corruption. Serbia ranks 87th out of 180 countries based on this index, and we share that place with the Republic of China. What was the situation earlier when it came to the fight against corruption, perhaps the best testimony of the late Verica Barac, who at the press conference, will remind you, on June 1st 2011, best described the situation in Serbia, when it comes to corruption. So, I remind you, I'm talking about 2011. Citiram - the media in Serbia have been captured, and then the government has established control over the media through Srdjan Saper and Dragan Djilas, the closest co-worker of Serbia's then president, Boris Tadic. She then said, in 2011, the president of the Anti-Corruption Council, Verica Barac, at the Regional Conference -- the Anti-Corruption Partnership, and then presented really scary data, that as much as 25% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is going to commercials without any control. What is also alarming, when the then Anti-Corruption Council pointed to all these negative consequences and negative cases, the authorities at the time found that they had been ignored. It's just, they've been deaf about reports like this. They said it didn't matter. Of course, it doesn't matter when the money from the commercials has gone right into his private pockets. When, for example, they left us a 1.2 billion-euro debt in the city of Belgrade. In such controlled and captured media, there was no talk of an effective fight against corruption in 2011 because the media then reported what the government wanted to hear, and no real problem at all. So in the media that year 2011, you couldn't even hear the data relating to the radical reform of the judiciary, which has certainly led to this situation in corruption, this situation in which our society is located. At that time, over one night 840 judges were out of work, without the right to legal remedy and no reason why they were out of work, and in Serbian media, you did not have enough information about it, simply the public was not sufficiently informed, which I would say is one of the biggest problems that has hit our society, our political system in the past 10 years. We achieve really good results not only when it comes to regional co-operation and infrastructure projects, whose loans and agreements are on the agenda today, but also when it comes to fighting corruption. Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic presented data yesterday that in a year's time, since March last year, more than 500 people have been processed when it comes to fighting corruption and have not been spared either high-ranking state officials, directors of public enterprises or former assistant ministers, municipal president. We have shown as SNS that we are really leading and that we have zero tolerance when it comes to fighting corruption. Cases in Požega, Leskovac, Nis and Belgrade since this year, but also those old cases from the DS period when this party grilled and burned Serbia best say that they got a court epilogue and we found out in the media this week that a court dispute had ended and that we had an epilogue in court when it came to Assistant Minister Oliver Dulic, who worked in the former Ministry of Environmental Protection, who has certainly abused his official position. We are accomplishing and doing a lot of work to improve those international obligations. We adopt international standards, which are also witnessed by GRECO recommendations. It's about an anti-corruption body of the Council of Europe. Of the 13 recommendations, Serbia partially met 10 recommendations. There is no doubt that corruption is the greatest evil in our society and that we must fight it every day. When we talk about the economic consequences of corruption, corruption and how direct relations with the reduction of growth are and I would say, the smaller the cookie, the smaller the GDP in one country, the greater and more visible the negative effects of corruption. That is why I join the President of the Republic of Serbia when he announced zero tolerance for corruption in our country in all fields. Also, I support President Alexander Vukic's statement, when he said we don't want to look like DS, that we don't want to look like criminals and kidnappers of folk money, like the people of the DS, but also the current people of the Union for Change. Really, I can't understand how they weren't ashamed of what they were doing while they were in power. We don't want to look like DS, because it fell apart so quickly because of its misdeeds. And today we can see that every day more and more is falling apart. There's a lot of work ahead of us, we can't stop when it comes to fighting corruption, because it's a daily struggle in our society. In my presentation today, I also consulted in my preparation and with last year's research, which was done by USAID and CESID, that we must regain confidence in the anti-corruption institutions. The same research results show that one institution is recognized by the highest confidence, it is the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia. Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, is, in the opinion of Serbian citizens, the most committed in the fight against corruption. We still have a lot of work to do when it comes to fighting nepotism, when it comes to fighting the use of friendly relationships to make it easier to do business in state institutions. Indeed, the last sentence, and I end my exposure today, which is corruption never falls from the sky, is the result and the decision of an individual. Individuals always have a choice, sometimes that choice is difficult, sometimes that choice is easy, but it's always a choice. In corruption there are no of ours and theirs, but they are always corrupt civil servants and civil servants, regardless of the regime or political party. What distinguishes us from the SNS, which no party book in Serbia can protect from disrespect, violations of the law, from dealing with crime or corruption anymore. This is a time to forget our party reasons and I would like to take the opportunity to invite all my fellow Members, MPs to support these really good and quality laws and international agreements, which really concern all of us. Let's take that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54259	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54260	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering financial agreements and agreements between the Republic of Serbia and different banks. It is the Chinese Export – Import Bank, European Investment Bank, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. For me, this contract between the Chinese Export – Import Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is most interesting and I will talk about it most. There are two contracts to the soul. One refers to the construction of the road E763, more precisely the section from Preljina to Požega, while the other refers to the modernisation and reconstruction of the railway line from Novi Sad to Subotica. In my presentation, I will focus most on this contract relating to the construction of the E763, i.e. the Preljina-Požega section, and on this second contract relating to the modernisation and reconstruction of the Novi Sad-Sabotica railway, my colleague Mirčić spoke more well and exhaustively. It is positive that these arrangements are being implemented with the Chinese bank, because so far the Chinese have proved to be reliable and reliable partners. On the other hand, we all know that China is our true friend in today's world, in the world in which we live, it is our right to have such a friend as China. This applies to both political and developmental aspects. We know that Serbia is part of the global project "One Belt, One Way" and since China is the driver of the project and the fund, it is also a great opportunity for Serbia. The construction operation entails the largest share of other activities and thus employs new personnel, while GDP growth is also taking place. We can't say there's not much to do in Serbia, but I think Ministerial Mihajlovic is overly boasting about some of his successes, and things don't exactly stand the way she wants to show us here. In particular, when it comes to Corridor 11, i.e. the E736 Belgrade-South Adriatic highway, things are not exactly as they appear here. Of the 285km of this corridor passing through Serbia, we have the following situation. The total work was completed only on the Ljig-Preljina section of 40.3 km long. As far as the other shares are concerned, the situation is next. I'll list the shares as we got in the material, so the citizens of Serbia know. Share Ljig-Lajkovac 24 km long - works are under way, shares of Lajkovac-Ub length 12 km - works are under way, Ub-Obrenovac 26 km long - works are in progress and the nearest share to Belgrade, Obrenovac -Surčina 17.6 km long - works are now beginning on 1 March. So we see that there's a lot of work to be done on this corridor. To the soul, we have to admit that highways are built in the process required by technical and technological conditions, where at the same time more shares are done. Now, during the construction of these shares, there are various problems and it is simply not possible to finish these shares at the same time, and especially if we know that different shares are performed by different performers and these performers may happen to get into trouble, which we had a case in some situations. We have finally welcomed that these days end the southern arms of Corridor 10, its opening is announced, and since it is a demanding project indeed, the completion of the southern arms of Corridor 10 is commendable. However, when it comes to the eastern arms of Corridor 10, there is a different situation and there is a situation for every criticism. We have a case that not yet an open share of this eastern leg of Corridor 10 from the average towards the Bankar's way tunnel has not yet been opened, and it has begun to collapse even though no car, not even a human leg has set foot on that path, and that part where the collapse is over two years ago. The Bankarevo tunnel and the Bancareva stock according to the Red River is a special story. There is almost no information in public about that part of the eastern leg of Corridor 10, and almost nothing is known, although it is practically the only share left to complete that eastern leg of Corridor 10. The unofficial information I've come up with suggests that there are major technical problems on that part of the East Side of Corridor 10, and in the construction of the tunnel, there's still a section of the Red River. I'm like a man who lives in that neighborhood, a man who knows that neighborhood well and who knows that relief, this isn't surprising. In fact, we know of that saying – which the coat of arms is born time does not correct, and this tunnel of Bancar's length of about 700 meters, was absolutely unnecessary. Many experts agree. There was a more logical variant to escape the tunnel elegantly along with small and minor deviations from the current route. Here, even more so, we have a situation that the highest point of the tunnel is five meters higher than the alternative variant that would be without a tunnel. I've got here, now I don't know how many cameras it's going to show to see, so, here, the entrance to the tunnel is 530 meters high, and the alternate variant is over the curve by five meters down. What's most important is that it's a field that's absolutely uninhabited, so there are no ores, no fields, all pastures and some other things. I know that designing this route, this part, this tunnel wasn't done at the time of this government, but, of course, with some minor projections, it could have been done that these things were redesigned and that the tunnel was built and sure that the tunnel would have been bypassed and it would have certainly been done by now, if that had been done, the Corridor 10 East Leg was finished. But you know how it goes, sometimes a man acts against common sense and makes it difficult for him to admit his delusion. As far as this Moravia piece of corridor is concerned, and there have been a lot of words about it, we all know that today is eastern and western Serbia, that they are completely trafficked. We don't have a highway, railroad and railways, either, the railway from Stalac to Kraljev and towards Western Serbia is also out of operation and indeed there is one great need for this corridor to be done. But again, we have seen that the mentioned Ms. Mihailovic, the minister in charge of infrastructure, past all regulations and past the knowledge of the government itself, makes some arrangements with the US firm and makes contracts that are absolutely unfavourable and which are more expensive than that with another firm. We all agreed here, and we can agree that the Chinese and Chinese companies are the most suitable and favourable in the construction of highways and other infrastructure facilities, which we could see here also in the construction of this so-called Chinese bridge over the Danube that was built in record time and very high quality. Finally, I want to remind the government that there is also eastern Serbia. So, eastern Serbia of Kladov, Negotina, Bor, Zaječar, Književci and that part. It may be the most uninhabited or rarely populated part of Serbia, but territorially large space and indeed and there live our people, our citizens, and I appeal to the authorities to pay attention to both those citizens and that part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54261	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Olivera Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54262	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the people, respected citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of eight loan agreements that will contribute to Serbia being a modern country with improved road infrastructure, with an improved electronic administration, with a modernised tax administration, with improved local infrastructure and improved health care. So these are areas that will be financed from these eight agreements that are on the agenda today. Today, I will specifically talk about the draft law confirming a framework agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the financing of the public sector to improve infrastructure in the field of health care. Serbia is taking a 200m-euro loan to finance health infrastructure and hospital equipment in health centres throughout Serbia. The project concerns the construction of an extension and rehabilitation of health centres in 18 municipalities and cities in Serbia. The project will be conducted by the Public Investment Management Office, and the estimated value of this project is at least 350m euros, 200m euros, as I have already mentioned, from the loan, and 150m euros will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So the funds from this loan were planned to support already existing investments from Serbia's budget in health care. What is important for Serbian citizens to know is that this loan is taken under very favourable conditions, that we have the opportunity to choose a fixed or variable interest rate when withdrawing the tranche, and the information for a fixed interest rate at the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe is 0.5% a year. We also have the possibility that when we withdraw the tranche we will choose a period of 15 to 20 years, including a period of start of five years. The credit is realised in at least two tranches, where the amount of the first tranche cannot be greater than 50% of the value of this loan. We are at our disposal until 2023, and what's most important is that we don't pay any compensation on unrepaired funds, or we don't pay a penny. To my great pleasure and to the satisfaction of all citizens of Leskovec and the entire Jablanic district, in 18 municipalities and cities where medical institutions will be renovated, the town of Leskovac from which I come, or General Hospital in Leskovac. The total value of the project to renovate the General Hospital in Leskovac is 21m euros, you will admit a very impressive amount. Of these, 15m euros were planned to complete reconstruction of the main hospital building dating back to the 1970s, then to build central intensive care, then to central sterilisation and specialist hospitals, while sixm euros were planned to purchase new equipment. Works on reconstruction and energy recovery of the General Hospital of Leskovac are well under way, I say, to the great satisfaction of all inhabitants of the Jablanic district. I want to remind the citizens that at the end of 2017 we opened a clinical center in Nis, according to world standards. Today we are talking about investments in the General Hospital in Leskovac worth 21m euros. Also, the loan agreement includes health centres in Vranje, which will also be renovated and all evidence that the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is taking care of the development of southern Serbia. That the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are taking care of Serbia's development, say the efforts made to end the southern arms of Corridor 10, which will be officially opened on Saturday. The citizens of southern Serbia recognise the efforts President Vucic is making and the government of the Republic of Serbia is investing in the development of southern Serbia, and that is why the president of the Republic of Serbia has the largest support of citizens right in southern Serbia. Let me just take a quick look at yesterday's agenda topics. I have a moral obligation to say, that I absolutely support the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Code in the work relating to the introduction of a life sentence for the most serious crimes. Serbian citizens have had the opportunity to say what they think of introducing a life sentence without parole for the most serious crimes. They signed a petition, 160,000 citizens signed a petition to introduce a life sentence. So I call on all the MPs to vote in the day of voting, we vote for amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, and also for agreements on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54263	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, as you can see the MPs of the SRS are participating in all public debates at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what I'm trying to say so as not to get the wrong impression that the opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not exist. I would say rights and the only opposition at this point is the SRS and we are making a maximum contribution to these public debates. In order for a society or state to develop successfully, it is necessary to invest in infrastructure, roads, tunnels, railways, and all that represents good preconditions for quality life. There are two ways of funding these facilities, one of their own funds, and the other of the credit arrangements. There's hardly a country in the world today that doesn't have a public debt. True, there are two very small states, and maybe there are others that can be found, and that's Macao and East Timor. There was a half-colony of China until 1999, there was a Portuguese colony, she doesn't have a public debt. The basic activity there are casinos from Las Vegas, coming, as the cube is banned in China and Hong Kong. It's a paradise for gamblers and they mostly live on it. East Timor of tourism and some other states can be found in a world that has no public debt, and all others have. It is interesting that the public debt of Japan is 223% of their domestic gross product and should work for two years, two comas two years to repay the debt. It is interesting to also point out that the US public debt amounts to 20 trillion US dollars. They are large debtors, and they are 61.5 thousand dollars per capita, but they are not the problem although they are so in charge and in total public debt at the world level is one-sixth, and Japan is taking up about one-third of their public debt. It's not a serious obstacle for the United States, because they don't have to pay back that debt. They can print dollars, place them in other countries where they make artificial demand, and they'll deal with it easily. It is interesting to note for our terms that the former members of the SFRY, Slovenia and Croatia belong to more in charge of the EU. Perhaps Serbia's public debt would be significantly higher if the SRS hadn't put pressure on it since 2000, even today to give up its journey to the EU, and I think their debt has been well-produced by walking that wrong European path. The public debt of Croatia is 81.5%, Slovenia is slightly smaller. In order for us to compare, and to say, and that the citizens understand what this is about today, I will have to, but in a short form to read, which we will do in the voting day, that is, the majority of the assembly in the voting day. It is a loan for reconstruction and modernisation of the Hungarian-Serbian railway, the Preljina-Požega highway, the partnership for local development, strengthening the resilience of local infrastructure, modernising the tax administration, and I will talk about it, improving trade and traffic, improving the services of the electronic administration and financing the public sector. So we have eight contracts, or eight credit debts, and that's a billion $433m and $431m and 100,000 euros totaling about a billion and 710m euros. The total public debt of the Serbian state today is around 23 billion and 560m euros, of which is the public debt, i.e. the central debt of 23 billion 214m and about 346m unguaranteed debt for public enterprises units of local self-government and perhaps public enterprises whose founder is the government. Credit funds, meaning in this amount I said will already be withdrawn from China's Export-Import Bank, European Investment Bank 2, China Bank 2, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 3 and Bank for Development of the Council of Europe 1. The public debt of Serbia used to be 72% of GDP, and now about 51%. Very often, the position criticises the former regime that they owed on expensive loans, and that is true, but then credit conditions were something different. We now have a reprogramme as citizens of Serbia are taking credits from foreign banks to pay off the previous ones, that is the case now. Indebted, and few of us calculated it per capita for this loan, and we understand that the minister said yesterday and we know, we read the proposals of these agreements, that these credits will not be obtained in one day, but when we withdraw all these credit funds, it will be 243 euros per capita, or 254 per voter in Serbia. You can see there's a slight difference between the debt per capita and the voter. This suggests that we have a problem in the population structure from one day to 18 years. He'll be even more pronounced. Very often both the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you fellow MPs are the fact that Serbia has the cheapest workforce. Unfortunately, that's true. Now, because we have the cheapest labour force lately more and more Serbian citizens, especially skilled craftsmen and professional workers leaving Serbia for a slightly better-paid captainship in Western Europe and other countries of the world. Once someone leaves and feels these financial conditions are something better, it will be difficult to make a decision to return no matter how much Serbia is in his heart. This plan has got to be done a lot more than it's done so far. To avoid coming into one situation like it was a few years ago, the state of Serbia owed it 92 euros for one second, in one hour 331 thousand and 200 euros, and in one day 7.9m euros. We have to take care of things. Taking loans – yes. Find an optimum, and pay special attention when selecting performers of these works, and about the quality of not talking. So, the quality of the works or services performed, and since we have credits for services here, we have to monitor with the attention of the best host, which has not been the case so far, and this is particularly expressed where Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic appears as the competent minister. And, don't turn out to have something against Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, you remember that my colleague, Djordje Komlenski, spoke about rehabilitating the Obrenovac-Ub road, and I can confirm it to you since I occasionally pass by the road and engage on the Ibar highway in the Cells from Nečava to Lajkovec as if it was done before World War II, and not that some rehabilitation was done last year. A vehicle when it passes like it's on some jumpers. It can't be allowed, it can't be like that. For the sake of correctness and objectivity, I'm just going to remind you, what duty it has been to the governments so far. The government of Zoran Djindjic took over, found a public debt of 14.6 billion, the rest, after 2003, Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, 11.02%. Public debt's downgraded. But we should consider the fact – privatisation. The privatisation they made and where, of course, everything worth it was sold out and what was a serious potential for Serbia's accelerated economic development. What's a reduction in public debt, that's statistics, but that's not true. The government of Vojislav Kostunica from 2004 to 2008, so 11.02, 8.78 billion debt and here the public debt is shrinking, but the economic potential, especially in the real sector, is falling significantly. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic 8.78 billion goes out to 15.4. There's a duty here, I think, to be the greatest. The economic potential has not developed, the public debt has increased, the export of financial resources from Serbia has been huge. Here, we haven't been able to verify some figures, somewhere even about 50 billion, that was carried out at the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Ivica Dacic's government inherited a debt of 15.4 billion after the end of his presidency in the government of 20.6 billion, and after the government of Alexander Vukic, we are now not making that intersection, 20.6 and 24.2 billion. Now when it comes to public debt, it is often associated with GDP per capita and in absolute terms. In itself, it can't give a real picture of what kind of situation we are in, and you know and watch your neighbor who owes maybe 20,000 for utility services and he's much more struggling with it and it's much harder to pay it off than someone who owes 100,000 dinars, depending on whether he's employed, what are his receipts, etc. It can't be something that's very real. Now, our public debt has been reduced by a percentage of GDP, but it should be borne in mind that the economic operators in Serbia, the treatment of the domestic company, but foreign capital, have several serious exporters, and it probably has a good impact on the percentage reduction of public debt. What is the situation on public debt in the countries, EU members? Well, their average public debt is about 81% compared to GDP at EU level, with a huge difference, and they saw that Greece may be the second or third country, or second in charge, it affects that negative average while Germany has a significantly smaller debt, and then the average is at that level that it is. Now I'd like to say something about modernising the tax administration. Modernisation of the tax administration is necessary and necessary, but with the modernisation of the tax administration we try from the director, remember that Slovene Simic, some shifts are made there, but that is not enough. The tax administration kind of comes to us as a flow water heater to charge the budget. It's an institution that collects public income, and it's necessary, so it has to be. However, we know that in the humane sense, they are trying to implement some reforms in the tax administration, and I would say that they will not give good results, both in terms of public revenue collection, and perhaps in terms of correctness towards the taxpayers, or the citizens of Serbia. Well, the place I come from, Ljubovija, has a local community about 40 kilometers away from the municipality's headquarters, where our former colleague and vice president of the Konstantin Arsenović National Assembly were born, which is 40 kilometers away, and then Ljubovija from Loznica, where it will be the headquarters of the tax administration's branch, 70 kilometers later. That's 110 kilometers. In order for a taxpayer to get some confirmation he needs now, to register a vehicle, to carry out another tax transaction, he must go to Loznica. It is also possible by electronic means that, and now it is already called the Department of Special Affairs, to refer the request, but he must go to take the act if he needs it in a shorter period or wait seven days to get it through the mail. That's not good, and we shouldn't reform the tax administration that way. The tax administration should be carrying out another kind of control, and it has not done so far, it seems to me, not even our Central Bank, the NBS, the profit control of foreign companies, so in 2014 alone from our Serbian citizens, the banks have taken, I would say, kidnapped, 1.9 billion euros on behalf of interest and other services. This is not about the wars, but about the interest and other services they charge, and they publicly showed revenue, i.e. 19.4m euros in profits. It's only 1% of what they've incasated. The tax administration should perform a serious transformation and a different attitude towards these economic operators. I'm looking forward to the fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54265	You're bringing the end, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54266	... and not only me, but all Serbian radicals, which in Serbia's citizens' consciousness in fulfilling their obligations is growing on the one hand, and on the other hand, as we are in charge of the state, citizens are even more in charge. Now out come Mrs. Jelena Tanaskovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54267	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Here, add that one more sentence. Ask for the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54268	I thank my colleague Arsic for his understanding. I just wanted to ask Mr. Djordjevic, when the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 is made to try to make as a serious project of this country, include building a tunnel through the past to bring the promise of the President of the Republic given in Banja Luka and in many places in Serbia to the truth to make that tunnel so that Sarajevo, Belgrade and other places would be closer, thus creating better economic conditions and an environment for the development of those parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54269	A colleague of Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, colleagues and fellow MPs, a set of judicial laws as well as today's proposals for a law on loans are of paramount importance and are in the interest of all of us, all citizens, the entire society and will contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia. In my presentation, I will refer to the bill to confirm the framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector, and this is about improving the infrastructure in Serbia's healthcare sector. The planned loan is worth 200m euros, and the Framework Agreement was signed in Belgrade on 4 April 2019 and in Paris on 15 April 2019, and it is a loan for financing health infrastructure and hospital equipment in selected health institutions, secondary or therapeutic health care levels. Namely, there are about 18 health institutions across the Republic of Serbia in the following cities: Arandelovac, Valjevo, Vranje, Gornji Milanovac, Zaječar, Kladovo, Kraljevo, Leskovac, Loznica, Majdanpek, Paracin, Pirot, Prokuplje, Smederevo, Smederjevska Palanka, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica and Cuprija. As I said, the funds of this loan were planned to support the already existing investment of the state budget in the health sector and thus would cover about 30% of investment needs for infrastructure maintenance during the three-year period, with an emphasis on improving infrastructure, as I said at the secondary and territorial level of health care through investments in the modernisation of small, medium and larger hospital institutions of specialist protection and for the implementation of the project is the Office for Public Investment Management, as a body for project implementation. As we can also see, we are witnessing that this government and the Ministry of Health are constantly making efforts to establish a faster and more efficient and better quality health system in Serbia, and in this direction, in addition to building new and reconstructing existing health facilities, obtaining new medical equipment and appliances, the ministry intensively implements the policy of human empowerment of the health system. Because of the great interest of the citizens, I'd like to say a few sentences and a criminal code. The view of humanists, criminologists and the professional public is that punishment is not revenge or revenge, but a way to retaliate and then return to society and the environment in which he lived. As we all know, we don't have a death sentence. However, although modern tendencies are such as to act in the way I said, it means retraining and resociating, and not punishing, the reality of every day disproves us just by cruelty, brutality, indifference of crime, whose, unfortunately, modern-day recent years. In recent years, there have been so many terrible crimes against children, helpless faces, women, that the whole country and the region have been in shock for days and weeks and today we are in shock, and of course it cannot be forgotten because of the cruelty of the crimes committed, but also the cold-bloodedness of the perpetrators and their relationship to the crime committed. In such situations, criminal policy must be much, much stricter. Often in the people, they can hear statements that our criminal policy is a treasure, that for the murder, they get a few years in prison, a pair of gigs, etc., which only feeds the motives of potential criminals with the view that after the crime they commit, they'll get away with as little punishment as possible. That needs to get in the way and do it now. The sentence of life in prison is absolutely justified and acceptable for the crimes for which it has been proposed. And there's no doubt whether it should be introduced or not into our legal system. If knowing that a life sentence can deter a potential killer from committing a crime and thus be saved even one life, then the purpose of introducing this sentence is achieved. Let's remember all the children who were tragically killed by the perpetrators of the crime. Let us only remember how cruel and cruel their executioners were. In the day of voting, we from the SNS will support all the laws and sets of judicial laws and proposals of the law on loans, but I pray both as a woman and as a doctor and as a national representative that all MPs support these laws and cast their votes in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54271	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54272	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable Minister Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs from a series of proposals for financial contracts are also very important, the Law on Confirming a Financial Contract, a framework for strengthening the resilience of local infrastructure, of course, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. We from Sandzak are particularly encouraged by the point that the funds obtained by this contract will also be used to build a water and sewerage network in undeveloped areas, as we see a chance for the final citizens of Tutin to get drinking water before the end of the second decade of the 21st century. I will remind you that it is one of the few cities, not only in our country but also in the Balkans, and probably wider which has no drinking water from the city's water supply. Citizens are hostages corrupted by local authorities who have ruled this city for nearly three decades and who have failed to provide their residents with even the city's drinking water core. Water flowing from their taps, according to the expert body analysis, is not for human use, which means it has no characteristics or technical water. The population is supplied with alternative sources of drinking water, which is often of poor quality itself. Several times domestic budgets, as well as international aid, have allocated funds to address this problem, i.e. the construction of a water pipeline in Tutin. But the funds disappeared without a trace. A large part of the preparatory elements, pipes and the like ended up in other locations as part of the local government’s purchasing tranche. Criminal charges against several responsible persons for abuse of office stand in the prosecutions and today, no one has ever prosecuted them for years. The problem of the citizens isn't solved. They are victims of these criminal acts that, as such, persist from the introduction of a multi-party system and the indecision of state authorities to deal with corrupt individuals from local tobacco authorities who are responsible for such a situation. Of course, that muttering and not doing them further encourages them to continue to keep the population in the dark and misery without a minimum basis or... values for the operation of personal interests. That the state is alarming, testifies statistics that speak of a greater number of deadly diseases of people from this area that can be brought into direct contact with chemically incorrect water. A few years ago, we had cattle contusions that fed off that kind of water. With the view that the prosecution and the courts will, for some reason, tolerate this terror against the citizens and the continued and direct abuse of the local budget of the Tutin municipality, which is intended to assist the government and the republican authorities in this contract as an emergency, separate funds for reconstruction and rehabilitation will continue to exist in the construction of a water network in the Tutin municipality, because it is indeed more than an alarming situation, which we MPs of the parties of justice and reconciliation have repeatedly spoken of here in the Republika Srpska Assembly, with what would have to, and according to previous experiences for this investment, carry out multiple surveillance to ensure that the citizens of Tutin are finally and received a drinking platoon. This is also our appeal on behalf of the citizens of Tutina, the government's office in charge of the implementation of this contract to put the Tutinski Vodavod on the list of priorities, and the reason for us to support these draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54273	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54274	Dear President Arsic, ministers with co-operation, Serbian citizens, fellow MPs. In today's debate, I will talk about the bill to confirm the loan loan agreement for a preferential buyer between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and China's "Export-Import" bank for the project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railway line in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the New Sad-Subotic and the state border of Kelebija. The Belgrade-Budapest track modernisation and reconstruction project as part of a global project is one belt, one time, poor at the most important infrastructure projects of the Republic of Serbia, whose joint implementation has been agreed at the level of the president and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the People's Republic of China and Hungary. This project is important for the economy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the People's Republic of China and neighbouring Hungary. For a stake in Belgrade-Stara Pazova, the Republic of Serbia has already been granted a loan from the same bank worth $297.000,000. The commercial contract that we are now discussing includes the purchase, construction and installation of all necessary elements for the reconstruction of the 108.1-mile-long share, to establish a bi-average line for mixed traffic for up to 200km-an-hour speeds. For Novi Sad's share -- the border contract was signed in Beijing on April 25th, with a loan of $988m, of which 85% of the project's value will be financed, according to a commercial contract, and 15% will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This contract provides for a 20-year maturity, a five-year availability period and an annual interest rate of 2%. And so, respected citizens of Serbia, while this Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic are working, tents are being spread outside the presidency and possibly the saws they want in the future. During the signing of this and other important contracts, Vukic met in Beijing, beside Si Gjiping, whose guest he was, and with Li Kechiang, Giusepe Conti, as well as Vladimir Putin and Kazakhstan's President Nazarbayev. In China, President Vukic said he is very proud of his country, which he represents in China. Who among the previous presidents of Serbia has met with the president of China and Russia so many times, I ask the question? Nobody. And the results were seen every day. This weekend, Corridor 10 opens. It will be a great success for this government and for President Vukic. The parliament is discussing a law on preventing corruption, because it is important to realise the strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia, and how much the Serbian Progressive Party cares about corruption having zero tolerance, it also shows in action. Serbia's advanced party arrests its people, out of its ranks, President Vukic calls out to the top local leaders, police are doing their job. Tell me, fellow MPs, do you remember who was arrested by DOS leaders and those before 2012. They arrested their inextricables, and then the state paid the damages to the nonexistents. Deaf people were on Verice Barac's cry, where she pointed to 24 privatisations, and she specifically called Gilas and his hat on all the media in the state of Serbia. That's why the citizens of Serbia remember and punish them, and they will still punish them, I hope, in the next election. I ask my fellow Members that in the day of voting we accept all the proposed laws and contracts that are before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54275	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54276	Dear President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today, here we are, from the beginning of the session, discussing and considering the agenda points that we have, and it is about agreements, actually proposals for a law on the validation of credit agreements and loans relating to infrastructure projects, whether it is about rail or highways, on financial contracts that support local development and projects in local self-government units, in the area of trade and traffic, in the area of the tax administration, for improving the services of the electronic administration, and we definitely have an agreement that concerns improving infrastructure in the field of health care. Of course, it's not always this receptive to ears and it's popular to borrow, to take these loans, to increase debt, etc. Often the people say, but regardless of the people's saying, debt is not a good friend. I think it is necessary that we take such steps of taking credit from international institutions, because that is what we are actually creating the necessary assumptions for the faster socio-economic development of our country, and without these loans, without these loans, we could not reach an appropriate level that makes further progress assumptions, both in the area of the economy and in other social spheres. So, of course, we have to make sure there's no over-indebtedness, but, on the other hand, taking care of it, we still have to do it, and with these means, we have bigger steps in the development, socio-economic development of our country. I will specifically comment on this proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty on the Partnership for Local Development between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. As I understand it, I would like to commend the conclusion of such a loan agreement by the European Investment Bank, in order to realise the project Partnership for the Local Development Programme. In fact, with this loan, we are doing so in order to raise infrastructure capacity, standards and quality of life for citizens, then to support local economic development and welcome such funds, which will amount to 22m euros from the European Investment Bank. Seventy-five per cent of these funds are from the bank, and eightm euros to complement this, to round up to 30m, is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of local self-government and donor. I believe that these loans and loans for development, especially parts of Serbia that have not been developed, should be more and more than just more than these loans should be at higher levels. We today, and that is our pain, have great differences in the development of certain parts of Serbia. On one side we have, of course, developed Belgrade, which is good. There are also some d mocking parts of Serbia that are quite developed, and there are parts of Serbia that are very underdeveloped, which are affected by the depopulation process, and we need to take care of that. That's why these loans are really welcome. The area of financing with this loan is to repair and improve public facilities, then reconstruct and build local markets, improve capacity for management in the municipal administration, restore public spaces and local facilities such as sports courts and parks, walking paths, construction or replacement lighting, etc. All of this is necessary in those environments that are underdeveloped, in underdeveloped municipalities, where often these objects that are in everyday use, and beyond the needs of citizens, are fairly devastated and that they should be humane and comparable to what needs to be served and to be decent in appearance and in a good function, so to speak. In the implementation of this project, "The Partnership for the Local Development Programme" is part of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, which is quite logical, taking into account the competences of this ministry in relation to the units of local self-government, but the important partner in realisation is, and I am saying this for the sake of the citizens, that the UN Mission implementing the UN Development Programme in the Republic of Serbia, the UNDP, which, in fact, this UN mission has this implementation role, gives administrative and technical support and, of course, I am operatingly considering the implementation of these projects, and yet in collaboration with the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. We in Serbia today have different categories of units of local self-government, I mean municipalities and cities that have been developed differently, which I was just talking about, but there are four categories. The third and fourth categories of units of local self-government are those that are less developed and by what is the decision of both the Government and the purpose of this loan are precisely to make use of 30 million funds in these municipalities, in these local self-governments, from both third and fourth categories. Given that out of those 90, surely one 40 municipalities will be able to realise projects they will compete for, and therefore I say that we need to have more such loans in the future, more such loans and in some larger amounts. We as a state must make an effort to balance how much development and what is the capacity of life, production and to make those reasons enough for people to stay in those environments that are hit by the depopulation today. So I expect, for these reasons, that the municipality of Petrovac at Mlava will also receive these funds for one over-needed project, which is the restoration of the facade of the municipal building which is a monument of culture and which was erected in the last century, at the very beginning of the last century. The construction lasted from 1900 to 1908. The building is, I said, a monument to culture. In today's social system, it was the meeting principle, meaning the meet building, and today it's a building of a municipality that's pretty derelict, in this part, which is itself a facade and a carpentry, etc. A lot has already been done inside, efforts by local self-government both in this municipal government mandate and in the last term, when the building is covered by a cremation, etc. We believe, given that the area of funding is also the restoration of such objects, and given that Petrovac belongs to undeveloped municipalities, we certainly expect it to be realised and will receive these funds. When we talk about these other agreements that we are talking about today, and it concerns loans and loans relating to the financing of road infrastructure, railways, etc., I would only say what can be seen when we look at and analyze the map of the Serbian state with the road network and the highways that have been built, parts of highways built, and which are in the plan for construction in the next period, can be seen in fact from that picture, from that map, that it is looked at, that Corridor 10, which is actually going to the central line of the Republic of Serbia, from the north to the south, and in such a way, conditionally speaking, divides Serbia into the eastern and western parts of the territory, that we already have in the western part of the western part of the highway, there are also other plans on the prevention and merger of Corridor 10 and 11, then, the highways that will go, those stocks that are going to go to BiH, which are not really going to the same part of Serbia, which is not the same part of the Republic, which is now planned to the Republic, which we are not the same part of the Republic, which we are now planned from the Republic, which we are not going to the same part of the Republic, which we's of the same part of the Republic. So, I believe that, taking into account the issue of unequal indevelopment of the territory and parts of the Republic of Serbia and the very threat that those parts that are undeveloped are increasingly impoverished, they are increasingly abandoned by the population, should actually think in the direction that this network of significant road traffics is improving and increasing in this part of Serbia. Of course, when I'm talking about this, I'm not making any criticism about all the activities and all the projects that are being undertaken today in this field, and it's just impossible to end it all in the same time as we would like or how we imagine it to be good. But when we talk about these significant roads, including highways that could appear on eastern Serbia's territory in certain parts, then I urge that in these future plans, even if that is 20 years from now, we take care of that and we go that way. Of course, we will support these agreements, which was also spoken of by colleague Paunovic, who was an authorised representative of the SPS for this item of the agenda, because I repeat, without borrowing in this way, by investing through the necessary projects, we are actually creating significant assumptions for further progress in the overall socio-economic order and our country's system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54277	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54278	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we deal with legal protection, first of all, the children, there are also these other unfortunates who are not here. I can forgive Bojana Pitiæ for writing and wished someone would raise their hand to me. I can forgive that, although he's a professor of law school and probably in democratic countries after wanting someone to raise a hand would be forbidden to teach at law school. I don't understand these. So he called his own party, his own and Gilasov, his own time ship of lunatics. I fully agree with Bojan Pajtic that his and Gilas's party is a crazy ship, because only that crazy ship can get this post on Twitter. Dasko Milinovic, a friend of Marinika Tepic and Gilas's deputy, says so – I am for killing children, so I am against this law. Those from Gilas' party say they're for killing children and that's why they're against this law. So it's not just about a lunatic from the boat of crazy Pitiæ and Gilas. This is journalist Dasko Milinović, editor, journalist from some new Sad radio, etc. That's the person the police have already detained. So that's this man from Gilas's and Pytic's crazy ship who wanted to kill children. A friend of Marinika Tepic, a participant of the protest "1 out of 5 million". If it wasn't for me to make something up, pictures say more than words. Here he is in a warm embrace with Deputy Gilas, Marinika Tepic, who is allegedly against violence, but on his profile, Marinika Tepic has a photograph where he breaks his head with the image of Aleksandra Vukic. So these are the unfortunates who are against these laws that protect children and who literally wrote that they are for killing children and that they are against this law. I call upon the authorities to investigate this case. This is an outrageous hate speech and this has to be sanctioned. There's nothing worse than an evil mind, but evil fights while it's little. Mr. Prosecutors, come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54279	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54280	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only the Government, but the majority of MPs in this high house and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are conducting a project of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our health care is also a sector where modernization is conducted. Therefore, the draft law confirming the basic agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia is extremely important for the realisation of a project to rehabilitate public hospitals, whose total value is 350m euros. Dear Members of the People, what is very important to know, and especially our colleagues from the opposition benches that are not here today, which is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 has been approved by the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe for $200 million, and therefore this law is on the agenda today. With this project, we will invest in the construction and expansion and rehabilitation of about 18 health institutions across the Republic of Serbia, starting from Arangelovac to Piroth, from Zaječar, Valjev to Sremska Mitrovica, Sudotica and not counting further. Honorable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, health care during the former regime, gathered today in the alliance for the second robbery and destruction of Serbia, were the first to be in the DOS, the worst in Europe. That is not what I say, but the EU Commission has not even reached the European Health List. During the rule of Gilas, called the Djiki Mafia people, during the reign of Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the people, health was characterized by everyday affairs. I'll remind you of just a few affairs. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, cytostatic affairs. Cytostatics were bought as in the market during their regime. In advance, it was known how much money would be spent on cytostatics, and then patients to whom the drugs would be given are sought. You remember the distinguished Dr Dragana Jovanovic, who left the medical commission in protest. At that time, cytostatics worth 24m euros were purchased, with no tender, no public advertising. In order to avoid a tender, the Republic Health Institute would only refer to a letter from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. It's their health care. They're not in these benches today to talk about whether this is true or not. Next, an affair involving a mortician and an ambulance doctor. You remember that affair, known throughout, not only in our country, but in Europe. It lasted during the party of the former regime. The price for the death report was 300 euros. The doctors deliberately let patients die to take a 300-euro commission. It's so-called. the affair of trafficking in the deceased. Third affair, flu vaccine affair 2009, 2010. Serbia imported eight million 855,000 doses of vaccines in 2009, and the rest of up to three million vaccines, as ordered, were cancelled. The campaign "refuse the sleeve" left 11m euros, and citizens' response was disastrous. Furthermore, the affair of Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and his operation at Munich Hospital and his mistrust in domestic health, and he was headed by the ministry. An affair about imports and the purchase of a vaccine for swine flu. Huge theft of swine flu vaccines. Only imports of vaccines for 2009 have been damaged by 1,600,000 euros. Speaking of an affair for swine flu, there is also an affair of chickens, an affair of our distinguished MP and former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. What was he doing? He was producing a vaccine for yoghurt and water chickens. Vaccination of chickens in the village of Pukovac near Nis. Normally, he took the money and ran away. He's not here today to talk about whether it's true or not. An affair over the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade. You remember that affair. It's an affair about the grant of disability pensions. That was a terrible thing. Out of the 500,000 disability pensions, this government and previous pensions are down to below 300,000. About 10,000 a year is reduced, etc. In mahogany, people were getting disability pensions, and they stayed in a working relationship. Trade list of waitings at the Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica. A hundred people died from abuse of the waiting list. Jucit's emergency delivery affair. Vehicles were hired and paid, and they weren't delivered. You remember the affair about it and that there were even five people arrested from the Ministry of Health. So much for their affairs. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbian health care, as I said, was the worst in Europe before the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister. With the SNS coming to power and the arrival of the Progressive Government and this government today, where you are Mr. Djordjevic, has made significant progress when it comes to health care. Let me just say in 2015 that our Serbian health care took 30th place on the 35-nation European list. So in a year, he's progressed five places. In 2016 it took 24th place from 35 countries, 2017. 20th place, 2018 last year in 18 places. That's the progress of which gentlemen, gentlemen across the street, what we say is gone today, to talk about. I'm not going to say any further what we've achieved about the infrastructure because it's colleagues and colleagues, but allow two sentences. The government, along with the previous government, opened 138km of highways. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition benches that aren't here today and you're looking from your houses or offices here? Come here and deny it. Restored 480 state roads, built 360km of local roads, rehabilitated and built 311 bridges, finished rebuilding 360 schools, hospitals, health homes in 130 cities across the Republic of Serbia, etc. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these Alliance walkers for the second robbery of Serbia, led by Dragan Djilas in a people called Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic in a folk-named wolf descendant, Bosko Obradovic in a people's name, see now no more glumpty, but the rude people call him because of numerous incursions to state institutions, Janko Vesenovic in a people called the rentist, he stole Milici Badzhi's apartment in Obrovec, on the Street of Brace Kurjakovic, a refugee, Dusan Petrovic in a people called a cow-killer. Dear citizens, this is the Minister of Agriculture who has given you a year to slaughter 250,000 cows from a total fund of 500,000. Sergei Trifunovic in a people called Sergei Pishoi. Why? Because I quote that "he will piss on the grave of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic", the quote was completed. This is best told by his colleague, who said, I quote - "unfettered lying Sergei, that is your leader of the protest. He's always been a bribe, always been a liar, always licking himself up, being a gold medal in getting his ass in, always lying, always smelling, always picking on money, eating and drinking. He was never washed, he always cheated on his colleagues," finished quote, a statement by his colleague Biljana Srbanovic on 20.01. 2019 in "Blica", page 1. Furthermore, Marinika Tepic, called the pigeon flyer. This is the folk's letter that lies in one party at night, wakes up in the morning in the other party, and among them is Milojko Pantic called a madwoman. Respected citizens of Serbia, his LDP party asked to be fenced from my discussion when I said in this higher house that he was Pantic, a madwoman, because in Zagreb he said that there is a chauvinist, fascist click here in Serbia. Named "speaks" yet. Whether I was right or wrong, he best proved it these days, after causing an accident on Brank's bridge, and normally I was right when I said it was a drink, because they brought him to the police station where he went to the washout, not the sobering, but the washing, 1,76 passed the alcohol. Now I'm looking for a party of the LDP, Mr. Cedu Jovanovic, called - a sniffer to apologize to me publicly for that. This is proof that he's really a piece of shit. Let me finally say, however, that the walkers were best told by their walker actor Kojo. I will end with it, he said, quote -- "people slowly realize that the protest has been on them from the beginning, that they were led by censors with the help of false half-world, semi-innovators and works of students who believed them." Complete quote, one prominent newspaper on 10.05. 2019, page 5. Dear citizens of the Republic, their representatives, of these walkers, I'm sorry for the congratulatory citizens who walk, are in fact one group of lesbians, non-workers, freelovers, luftikuses, secikes. They destroyed our past, destroyed our future, destroyed our present, destroyed the future of our children. Dear citizens, if you allow them at least a year to stay and come to power, they will destroy our roots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54281	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54282	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected Minister Djordjevic, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Srlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, here in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party. I've been selected from the SNS list. As so far, I have talked about all those things that are important for the development of southeastern Serbia, for the development of underdeveloped areas, for development in the part of infrastructure, for health care, for education and for all of our citizens living in these small municipalities, living in the country, living from the village, and for all those people who want to make their families come true there, that they can, as they say, live much better. When we talked about a previous set of laws regarding criminal acts, about new things like the introduction of a life sentence, I was also saying that in our neighborhood, that in my village for those people who do evil to children who do evil to people, for these people, that prison for life is a fine sentence. We now have a number of things, a series of these agreements that provide the possibility of taking some favourable loans and some grants for the development of southeastern Serbia, for the development of infrastructure in certain parts of Serbia, where through this European Investment Bank programme, through the Bank for Reconstruction and Development programme, we have a lot of resources to invest in infrastructure, both travel, so rail infrastructure, where we will have the opportunity to arrange not only railways, but also have the opportunity to arrange road routes. Normally, I would prefer that these routes be made as soon as possible, that tomorrow when the time comes to provide funds for development, for agriculture that we have more resources for those people living in the country, but also for those young people who remain in our villages, for those people who remain there, for marriage communities to be realized, for larger subsidies, for them to provide greater funds for newborn children. In the context of this being a greater difference from 20 to 50% for those living in areas where living conditions are more difficult, in areas such as Svrljig municipality, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Knjižec, Babusnica and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia. I think that it is necessary through the travel infrastructure development programme, through the road infrastructure building programme we have a really greater opportunity to get more people through Serbia, to leave the funds and to come to nice areas like Svrljig, such as Nis, such as those parts of southeastern Serbia where there are really many nice things and where they can come around, buy something, leave some of their money and normally come back again. Really, nature has given us everything. Southeast Serbia is a place and an area where there are close to a million and 500,000 people, but in these areas we must draw a little more out for this part of the infrastructure because, as counterpart Miletic said earlier, this part of Eastern Serbia needs a little more investment in infrastructure. So I've always talked here about our problems, about solving these problems, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our President, Mr. Vukic, has already done a lot of work on this, and that's what this is all about. Otherwise, there is Minister Djordjevic, Mr. Minister, I would like, within your jurisdiction together, all of us to provide a safer future for those of our old people living in these small municipalities. Let's say one of the examples is the municipality of Srlig from which I come, where we're on the agenda, we plan to do a greetto center within our capabilities, a project of this greto center has been done. Through these programmes, through these favourable loans that the state of Serbia receives, with your cooperation, with your support, we will provide these older people with a safer future, because, yes, we are old municipalities, but on the other hand through the employment programme, provided by the competent ministry, through the national employment service provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the investment of these small municipalities, the employment of a small number of people, is a sure future for the remaining of these young people in Srlig, the White Palanca, Gajina Han and all municipalities in southeastern Serbia. Once again, I will vote in favour of all these bill proposals, because I think this is necessary to complete, to do the infrastructure, to do whatever is necessary and to always vote in favour of all the necessary things, where the village, agriculture, where our Serbia is developing. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54283	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54284	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transmission, you have had the opportunity to see for months how MPs of the ruling majority, MPs of the SNS, are fighting for your interests, in which way and what we plan to do, as a government in Serbia in the future, so that every citizen from north to south, from east to west, our country will be better. We present programmes and ideas, plans, projects for the development of our beautiful country and not only represent projects, and projects and we realize. We're realising them with the help of our partners, and today I'm going to look back at our Chinese partners, who are helping us complete a number of infrastructure, capital projects that are important to every man in this country. Of those who used to sit across from us I heard about two months ago, when we were arguing about highways and having a discussion on our municipality, in Old Town, say -- whatever highways, what do I care about those highways? And here you see, actually their relationship to what's important to the citizens. They say we don't care about highways. It is bad for them when you do a mile of highways, because it reduces their chance to fill these ninja camps, rambo camps and other camps, where they now share some false passports and tell citizens that they will live there great, as soon as they dress up as ninjas and as such trained ninja warriors go out into the streets and perform some ninja-framed command revolution in Serbia. They will not look at any revolution in Serbia, but will therefore watch the opening of the southern arms of Corridor 10, which is why they will watch new bridges in Belgrade, so they will watch the continuation of building "Begrad on water", so they will watch dozens and dozens more of new factories in Serbia, so they will watch the opening of further jobs in Serbia, so this year they will see new wages and pensions for our citizens, and their shame in these transfers, every day they have the opportunity to see Serbian citizens, through the fact that when important laws are discussed, which are not politics, are life. Yesterday we talked about Tiana's law, they didn't care, they don't care about children. Our children's lives are of no interest to them. They only care about their lives and their money. Even that money is not theirs, but the money that has been taken from each of us, from every citizen of Serbia. That money will have to be returned someday. So I look forward to the fact that soon there will be a law on the origin of the property, so let's see who's what and how he's got, who's getting rich. Who bought expensive large apartments, villas and cars with a salary of 100,000 dinars, where apartments in Vienna came from. Where'd the Maldives vacation come from? I believe that my colleague Bozovic, and now at some tropical destination, has failed to discuss Tijana's law, the fight against corruption. So how do we expect them to, and it sucks that I even expect that part of the opposition that isn't here today to come to us to discuss the fight against corruption. They get scared, they get chilly when you mention the fight against the corruption, you mention the police, you mention the courts, the judiciary, they're terrified of the fear of that moment, and of course they'd better get out of their jobs, where they lose every lead. Serbian citizens can know what they can expect from the SNS, not an empty story, but concrete acts. We didn't offer people 2012, 2013, 2014 and all these years that honey and milk would expire only when we won the elections, but we offered them hard work, we offered a waiver in one period to make tomorrow better, and tomorrow was not an imagination but something not realistic and sustainable. So today, every citizen in Serbia, people know of course, see people move, know what 130km of highways mean. It means new factories, new jobs, means better life and pay and an opportunity to earn the wages of those people who haven't worked so far. That's what we all agree on here. Every mile of highway means a new chance to live. We need this life in Serbia, and we do not care about highways as they say, which is an opportunity for a young couple, at least one to remain in Serbia, and another to have children and thus try not only for the next five to ten years to have a sustainable growth, but for our country to survive in the biological sense, in the centuries ahead. All highways, bridges, the fight against corruption, all that we're talking about today, unless there are people who want to stay in this country. They won't stay in this country with ninja masks and camps, with the Arlauking of Lecics on the Terraces, where they're engaged in a tap. That won't keep her here. It drives young people from Serbia. They watched it in the 1990s. They were yelling with taps, threatening hangings, and I don't know what, people believed there'd be something, and when they came to power, they filled their pockets. Some have found entanglement outside Serbia, fled faster, but in any case, they were better, and the citizens were worse. Young people were leaving here, we were the country with probably the biggest brain drain in the world. Who wanted to live in a country where there wasn't even a mile of highways? We listened for 12 years during their rule, Corridor 10, being, one day, here's the SNS made, led by President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll do a lot more good things, just to keep our citizens and young people living in this country, to create a family and her and to have more and more children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54285	I thank my colleague Filipovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54286	It is not exactly a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is an intervention in the Rules of Procedure, because there is no other option for me to say what I think I should say, and it is about Mr. Minister Djordjevic, who is here in the National Assembly very often and who has shown that he wants to listen to the MPs, to listen to the MPs, to respond to what the MPs say, but has also shown something that other ministers have not yet, and that is also to listen to the MPs. What is it, if you forget, is that maybe 20 days ago or, say, a month ago, the most important thing we've informed from here is that in some services that are specifically in the PIO Fund, which are in its jurisdiction that people in Serbia who retire receive solutions written in Latin and people have been rather bitterly informing us about it. We have informed Minister Djordjevic from here that in some services that are specifically in the PIO Fund, which are in his jurisdiction, people in Serbia who retire receive solutions written in Latin. These people have made us quite bitterly informed and we have said this publicly here to Minister Djordjevic and asked him to see what this is all about, because first of all we must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not only that we personally feel as a national need and something that needs to be forced into Serbia, but above all, the Constitution must be respected. I now simply have a moral obligation to also inform from here that Minister Djordjevic has listened to what we of the SRS have told him and that in the PIO Fund they are now issuing solutions to the pensioners in accordance with the Constitution in a Cyrillic letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54287	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. I understand what you wanted to point out through the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you yourself said through the explanation that it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but as chairman, I must ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this debate we have the consent of the National Assembly to certain duties of the Republic of Serbia. I'm really sorry that we don't have MPs here in the O.R. right now, representatives of the former regime. I know that at this point they would jump in and start talking out how we owe the citizens of Serbia, how it is uninterrupted, how little we care about them. However, representatives of the former regime obviously believe it is more important to be in the pioneer park, to try to be children of flowers, to make Woodstock from the Pionir Park. Now you can imagine Gilas, Pajtic, Jeremic, Vuk Obradovic as flowers. However, I can say that even if they tried something to stay in the attempt, because the hippies like themselves want to present themselves now, they were fighting a war in Vietnam, and the former regime gentlemen and Bosko Obradovic are characterized by violence and the struggle for naked power. They can never be that. Only there might be, but he met only a certain part of the conditions and not the positive ones, was Sergei Trifunovic. On the subject of these living communes, they're trying to build in Pioneer Park, I guess, what they say, weeds, joints, psychedelic substances, etc. But let's do an analysis of what the former regime gentlemen left in Serbia here in 2012, as one fellow MP mentioned a 15.5 billion-euro debt in 2015, and I'll come back to that later, he was wrong. Under their privatisation law, the Republic of Serbia has incomed for all the social assets that existed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not full of three billion euros or to translate only 10% of the gross products of the Republic of Serbia. You can imagine what kind of robbery it was that Miroslav Miskovic sold only by selling Maxi, or C-market, which he bought from that same privatisation, for 2.5 billion euros. Or, outside of the privatisation law, they were sold or, outside of the Privatisation Act, sold Moby 063 was sold to DDOR Novi Sad, some of the banks from the social sector were sold, it seems to me for some 800m euros and the oil industry of Serbia was sold for 400m euros. That's another three billion euros. So, apart from Elektroprivreda and Telekom, all the property of the Republic of Serbia has been sold for not full six billion euros or less than 20% of gross products. Now, the six billion euros are to be added to the 15.5 billion public debt found in 2012. As far as I can count, that's 21.5 billion euros. If we add another billion euros to that from Vojvodina Development Bank and add from Agrobank, that is 22.5 billion euros. Well, you'd ask the former regime gentlemen, what did they do with the 22 billion euros they spent while they were in power? I'd like someone to answer my question. Look out, 22 billion euros is a lot of money for ten times more developed countries than Serbia. Did we have any highways? I don't know if any highways are finished or started properly by 2012 or 2013. Don't throw it away so you don't talk about the highway from Presevo to Vranja that was paid completely and never finished, and the contractor went bankrupt. So I'd like someone to tell me what was done with $22.5 billion? Now, these alleged anti-dictature fighters are camping in a pioneer park to re-emerge in the same way as they led Serbia until 2012, continuing after some kind of coup on the street, and to resume the robbery that was started. I am absolutely certain that one part of the money of that 22 billion euros ended up with Dragan Gilas, at least 500 million, but I would like to know what the rest of it is. We give consent, among other things, to the highways and from the loan for the project of the construction of the highway E-763 Preljina-Požega. We agree on the modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Novi Sad-Subotica-state border, and the results of this government and previous governments since 2012 will be seen here in a few days when the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, finally opens the highway, the southern arms of Corridor 10, which has been launched several times by 2012, where the money has been spent and no results have been seen. Now, someone's gonna say, and what do we have from those highways? Some delusion is that highways and railways connect only a place or point A to point B and improve the quality of life along the same track or rail or highway. That's what citizens most often see first, so I guess that delusion is mostly used for some, to say propaganda purposes. But what is more important and what needs to be pointed out is that with every mile of highway and every mile of reconstructed railway networks in the economy and the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia are gaining importance. It is repeatedly said in a negative context that every foreign investor that comes to Serbia wants cheap and relatively professional labour. That's only possible when there's a high unemployment rate. From 2012 to today, the Republic of Serbia has cut the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia, although the members of the Fiscal Council are trying to dispute it, and later on, I will have little to deal with it. The time has now come to create a business environment for labour prices in the Republic of Serbia and there is also the importance of highways and railways, because traffic infrastructure takes a significant value in calculating the costs any investor has. So, Serbia does not want and will not be exporting cheap labour and we are working on new projects through Serbia, wherever possible, building highways, improving business environments and increasing labour prices in the Republic of Serbia. The other benefits that public works draw and the very consumption they raise in the Republic of Serbia, I do not want to repeat, we have dealt with this several times. When it comes to this session of the National Assembly, we also have a project to modernise the tax administration between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The value of the project is about 48m euros and one of the members of the Fiscal Council has asked a question – and why do we raise credit when we have a donor who will modernise our republican tax administration for free? I don't think there's any free lunch. One part of the modernization story is perfectly correct, but the other part, that one that would be sponsoring our republican tax administration insisted that at any moment it has insight into the databases collected by the republican tax administration. That's why we have one of these laws now. We believe that the republican tax administration should be modernised, that it can meet at any moment the challenges expected of it, but the republican tax administration will be modernised as it suits the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and its economy, and not at the expense of someone else, so that we clear up immediately with lobbyists from the Fiscal Council. You know, these are the same ones who keep repeating a mantra that we need to modernise Serbia's electricity industry. I agree, but to whose extent and whose account, are Serbia's citizens, Serbia's businesses, or some of the world's financial resources? Well, let them say whose account they're working for and who they're getting paid from. Do they receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget, therefore from citizens of the Republic of Serbia or from various international financial institutions whose account they lobby that we need to tear up electricity in organisational continents, privatise and raise the price of electricity for citizens in order to buy the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia, which are not renewables as cheap as possible, and sell more expensively to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We will not modernise the EPS, the EPS is already being modernised, the EPS is already being reconstructed in every respect and in transmission networks. A year ago, we agreed, for the first time in thirty and a few years to start building a brand-new power generation system. So, there are some things we need to clear up. We don't want to be in debt like those in charge who are now building a commune in Pioneer Park, Woodstock, flowers children, and so on, but we're only in charge of the program. When I say programming, all our duties will be either to modernise the Republic of Serbia in terms of its administration, or to build infrastructure. I just want to remind you how important it is when we give consent to our duties on the basis of the promotion of our administration, that is, the electronic administration. All you can think of is a strike in a catastrophe. The catastra strike had nothing to do with working conditions or employee salaries, the only thing that bothered them was that the cadastre had moved to electronic control and could not for some small favor take from the citizens a large amount of money. And, can't be understood, the police and the prosecution can't always be in every place, but since the fight against corruption is systematic, so at the level of the police and the level of the prosecution, the level of justice must be at the level of the administration. With the modernisation of the administration, we round up the anti-corruption system and with the electronic administration, the possibility of corruption comes down to a minimum. It can no longer stand for months or even years in the drawer of a state bureaucrat who will ask for a table, 200 or 300 euros to remove the item from the drawer, leaving Serbia where nothing could be done without honoring it. Where nothing could be done without you bribing and bribing because they were like that. Well, not to speak, fellow MPs have asked for a table, 200 euros to schedule a conversation with the citizens, and those flowers' children want to run Serbia from Pionir Park. Well, let them forget, the citizens of Serbia will not because they have seen what they are and because they know that they make a difference between Bojan Pajtic, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic on the one hand and Aleksandr Vukic who modernises and leads Serbia as citizens expect him to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54289	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're going to take a break and we're going to continue work at 14.05. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54290	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54291	I thank the chairman. We have before us a set of financial laws, or a proposal for a set of laws to confirm the loan agreement. First of all, I would say that the economic policy run by the current government has managed to extract the state of Serbia from the bankruptcy in which it was rational and, above all, responsible policy, we have become an economic leader in the region. Of course, the other drivers of economic development of Serbia were certainly major infrastructure projects that were the key to development for the development of the Republic of Serbia. The past, and this SNS government understood it well and set infrastructure projects as a priority. Serbia today is a network of road and rail corridors and, with the further accelerated development of infrastructure and such a stable economic situation, a key driver for the arrival of a growing number of serious investors in Serbia, who are guaranteed the country's economic stability. This kind of economic policy and stability gives us the right and has given us the right to see, through this set of financial laws, how many states Serbia, systemically approach to resolving resolved issues, and all in order to improve living conditions and better living standards for citizens. In this set of financial laws, too, there were two large infrastructure projects, namely the modernisation and reconstruction of Hungarian-Serbian rail links for Novi Sad-Subotica, Subotica-State Border and another extremely significant infrastructure project, the E-763 section of Preljina-Požega highway construction project. So the government of the Republic of Serbia continues with major infrastructure projects, which is of paramount importance. It's amazing that some opposition leaders are attacking and criticizing everything. We saw yesterday both through the media and through the social network and through some, call the expert and Tijana's law that we held in the National Assembly here yesterday, and also every new project implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there are many. All this is done by opposition leaders who have destroyed Serbia and the local self-government they have led. As an example of this, Sabac and Dusan Petrovic, who destroyed Shabac through robbery privatisations, continued to destroy it with his political project called Nebojsa Zelenovic, which sits under a tent here in Pionska Park, while the Sabac rapidly collapses and while the territory of the town of Sapca is over 70% water and sewerage. The Shapcans say they saw Nebojsa Zelenovic enter a tent in the Pioneer Park, with a crystal ball, a rooster and a handful of beans, I guess, prophesying political fate to his friends from the Alliance for Serbia. Of course, nothing easier than that has exactly no political future, just not the citizens of Serbia. In the end, I want to say that the state of Serbia has become a strong, stable, fiscally consolidated country, a country where we have restored dignity and prominence in the world and we want to leave our children a country where they will work and a country where they will be proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54292	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54293	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with the ministry's associates, today we have eight loan agreements ahead, and I will talk about one, and that is the proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement for a privileged buyer for a project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the New Sad-Subotica-State Border-Celeby. Today we are talking about very important infrastructure laws. It's a shame there's no one across the street, because these are capital things for the state of Serbia. Today we are talking about capital investment, the largest in Serbia, infrastructure, it is one belt, one time a global project, three countries have participated in this, and I simply don't understand when, what is the responsibility of these people to come and say something constructive, to do something together for this country, but good. Probably needs to change the Rules of Procedure, so you can see who makes money and why. Never in the last 40 years have they been better diplomatic relations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia, thanks to Mr. Alexander Vukic, our President, and thanks to Mr. Si Gjiping, the President of the People's Republic of China, above all to friendly relations, and then the mass of the agreement is signed, and based on these agreements, we have today produced numerous projects. I'm gonna talk about some of them, and some of them are just in realisation. But this country is booming, this country is developing very quickly, and that's why I'm talking about what just insults me as a messenger to look across the street that there are no people who are simply not interested in the improvement of this country. Today in Serbia, we have over 10,000 construction sites, it's being built everywhere, we have 1,000 construction sites in Belgrade, and they're not there. They have one construction site, a furnished tent and inside sandwiches, what does my esteemed colleague Woodstock say, so is that Serbia modern? It's not gentlemen. However, these people who have been deceived who knows how many times in life will know well when elections are who they do, how they do, and why they do. When we talk about these agreements, I will say what has been realized in the course of these few years ago, it has been realised, the project has been created, a scanner has been obtained for the purposes of customs administration, a project to build the Zemun-Borca Bridge with complete accessways, also a project to build the highway E-763 and this section from Obrenovac to Ljiga, project E-763 but Surcin-Obrenovac, so that it will be released in June of this year and from Belgrade to Cačka will be possible in an hour. Let's just think of a few years ago when there was a mass of people on that unfortunate Ibarska, and it was supposed to reach Cačka in three or three and a half hours. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 approved funds for a loan from the Chinese Export-Import Bank and the loan is worth billions of dollars for the most important traffic facility, which is the reconstruction of the construction of a fast track between Belgrade and Budapest. This billion refers to only a piece, one share, and that's Novi Sad-Sabotica, and that's going to be an extraordinary railroad, a fast track. Trains will move at 200km per hour, and Serbia is slowly moving with developed European countries. This railroad will be a hub between Europe and Western Europe, it will be a centre, so here we are, filling the budget. There's a lot to say about projects. However, what fascinated me is that Chinese as our friends always give us extraordinary loans, under very favourable conditions, we take loans, here, this billion, that's 85% of the full deal of the railway section between Novi Sad and Subotica, the rest of 15% is financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the loans were taken at 2% interest. We take with two percent, the predecessors who aren't here were taken with seven, eight, nine and twelve percent. Well, we're returning their loans, returning their interest, and we're back on the surplus. Now, that's called work, order, discipline and responsible government of Mr. Alexander Vukic. The second part, I'll speak very briefly about it, the rapid stripes. Belgrade's centre, the centre -- Stara Pazova, is also approved, and the loan amounts to $297m, 638m. It is also 85% of the total amount to be given to complete this section of the railway, and the Serbian government also gives 15%. When we talk about friendship with China and how they work, we can see certain parts of the road they've done and that's brilliant. What fascinates me is always on time. That's how it's going to happen in June of this year, and I'm happy to belong to this option of hardworking, working and responsible people. I would ask the gentleman from across the street, of course, for every honour to the opposition sitting here, part of the opposition, but this rest does not come and receive the salary. Shame on them. But in the elections, citizens will say their last. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposals for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54294	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word and the People's Messenger Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54295	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, given that in a few minutes there will be a session of the Finance Committee with the IMF Mission, I will be very, very brief, and especially because I am pleased to speak behind my colleague Arsic, who was all right and smart to say about these drafts of the law. When I look at it, she mentioned Ljiljana a little while ago, the empty stupid ones, I don't look at the empty stupid ones, I look at those happy, happy, tentboys, every time I go to work in the morning, I walk past the presidency, and I walk past a tent. I can see that since this morning, there's been an increase in the number of states. Instead of people, there are usually four or five of them, the number of tents increased by one. Let them advance and work. In their time, they took loans with large interest rates and those loans served for social peace, for increased wages and pensions. The difference between this government, between the SNS and the state led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is exactly what they are. We have a mission and a vision and a goal. We are dealing with the economic and economic sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. We take very favourable loans that we invest and invest primarily in road infrastructure, in railways, because without highways, without strong railways, there are no new investments, no opening new factories, no budgeting. This is exactly what we have achieved in these seven years, from 2012 to today, that, out of hope, from a state without perspective, we come into a situation of respect, of bringing foreign investors and of trying to make up for everything that some have destroyed in the period from 2000 to 2012, when good businesses are probably technologically outdated because of all those blockades and sanctions we've had, we managed to destroy and sell out. In no way can our position be launched as well as the countries in the environment, where our Fiscal Council has highlighted in some of its analyses. No, it's not the same. We're starting from a minus and we're coming at one big plus. We come to plus, and just all of these eight laws, or eight loan agreements, talk about thinking about all the parts, about the economy, about local self-government and health care. It has been mentioned several times today that there are some 18 cities where we will define through one of these loans from the European Investment Bank for the regulation of health infrastructure. We are also working to arrange infrastructure in local self-governments and most importantly, those vital, our strategic infrastructures, the completion of Corridor 11 and I hope that in the next week or in the weeks to come we will have a law here that will define that favorite corridor of mine, which is Moravsky. Thank you very much. In voting day, normally, we'll vote on the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54296	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54297	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, until just seven years ago, Serbia had taken a large number of loans under unfavourable conditions, with high interest rates, so that it could serve its own at that time an extremely large budget deficit, which was somewhere at about 6% of GDP, i.e. in absolute figures of around 190 billion dinars or around 1.7 billion euros. If we add to all this that in those years our economy was in recession, that we had a negative growth in gross social product, it all contributed to our public debt from about 29% in 2008, at the end of 2012, reaching close to 60%, and what is much worse than that, having a marked trend of growth, and thus being transferred to 2013, 2014, practically until the moment our country entered the first term of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's structural reforms and fiscal consolidation. Thanks to the fact that in 2008, we had a surplus in the budget, for four years, the growth of gross social product, our public debt fell from 70% to about 50%. Again, I repeat, what is even more important, he currently has a marked tendency to fall. Given that the World Bank has provided information that Serbia is expected to grow slightly above 20% in the next four years, it is clear that our public debt is also very safe, to say the comfortable zone, and that this growth in the economy will contribute to a much more money for both salaries and for pensions and for public investment. All of this allows us to invest these loans that we are talking about today not to use to pay salaries or pensions or to get the state out of bankruptcy, but to invest that money in the development of our infrastructure, without which there is absolutely no economic development, and our construction industry has had an extremely big impact on the growth of our economy in the past few years. That loan, which is certainly most interesting to me, is the bill to confirm the loan agreement for the E-763, section of Preljina-Požega. As you know and as you could hear in the media in the last few days, the stock from Cačka to Obrenovac will be ready in some months. By the end of the year, if the time conditions of the permit, we expect the complete completion of the stock from Obrenovac to Surcin, which means that in less than a year, finally, after many decades of waiting, we will have a highway from Belgrade to Cačka. Tomorrow, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic will lay a cornerstone for the start of construction of the Preljina-Požega section. When we know that this year the construction of the Moravia Corridor from Preljina to Pojat is to begin, it is clear how important it is for central Serbia, for the town of Cačak, for the Moravia district, how important it is for the economic development of this region, and not to say how important it is for the security itself. When we think of how many lives we've lost in Ibarska masteral over the past few decades, we could have inhabited a smaller town or municipality. All of this is very important to us and all of this is what the citizens of this part of Serbia have been waiting for, literally decades ago. All of these were no reason for us today to see the MPs of the opposition in the MPs' benches, and not even those of the MPs who came from Cačka. For example, Bosko Obradovic felt that today it did not matter to him that we are talking today about highways built around Cačka, as he yesterday did not care to discuss the law initiated by the Tijana Juric Foundation, which concerns the most serious crimes in the region. He did not find it appropriate to appear in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which receives a salary and pays him rent every month for an apartment in Belgrade, but found it appropriate to crucify tents in Belgrade, block streets and harass citizens of Belgrade. Whatever they tell us, as much as they insult us, accuse us of everything and everything, there's one thing they can't take from us, and that's the fact that all these highways, the factories, all that infrastructure will use generations that come in five and ten and 50 years and that's what no one can take from us. This is what some kind of monument of this time, a time when citizens of Serbia and Aleksandr Vukic expressed confidence in Serbia, and in my opinion, we returned it in the best possible way. I want this opportunity and to invite all citizens of the town of Cačka and Moravia County to attend tomorrow together the laying of a cornerstone for the start of work on this section of the highway and not only that, but to open something big every month. In early July, after 30 years, the first large factory in the town of Cačka, the Forverk factory, which is built at 65,000 square metres in the business zone, which did not exist until three years ago and in which the state of Serbia invested fivem euros. The factory will employ between 1,000 and 1,500 citizens of Moravia County over the next few years, and I think it is the best confirmation of the government's work. Of course, we don't think we've solved all the problems and we know there's still a lot of work to do, but I think we've succeeded in one of the most important things, which is to give back hope and change that sense of pessimism and depression that exists in this part of Serbia, when people didn't believe anything positive could happen. So I'm going to support all these bill proposals, especially the draft law amending the Criminal Code, concerning the most terrible crimes that have occurred in the past. Despite all the criticisms we could hear in the previous days, that these may be a little too strict of laws, I think the time has come for no more understanding or emotion for those people who are willing to commit the most terrible crimes against children. I think this is some final moment to pass one of these laws and, after all, it is the wish of all citizens, especially those who signed that petition, which is over 160,000 citizens. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54298	Thank you, colleague Parezanovic. The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54299	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty, mainly for infrastructure projects in Serbia. In 2014, thanks to our current President of the Republic, and then to the prime minister, Alexander Vukic, a Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation was signed on the Hungarian-Serbian railway project between the People's Republic of China, Hungary and Serbia. This is certainly one of the biggest infrastructure projects in Serbia that we are talking about today and which should certainly contribute to the development of our economy, trade and all other economic activities in Serbia. The value of this project relating to the modernisation and reconstruction of the railway between Novi Sad and Subotica, i.e. the state crossing of Kelebija, for which the loan from Export – Import Bank from China is $988,380,500. The length of this railroad is 108 kilometers and should allow trains to move 200 kilometers per hour. The interest rate for taking this loan is 2% a year and the maturity of the loan is 20 years. The cost of processing is 0.25%, as much as the fee is on undrawn funds. The end of the work is expected in 2023. Certainly, this is part of the global project "One Belt, One Way" and has double importance for Serbia, as it connects Europe with Central and Western Europe, as well as integration into a trans-European transport network. The investor of this project is "Infrastructure of Serbia Railway", and we can proudly say that it is never again invested in the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway, but it is also important to stress today and to invest in the reconstruction and modernisation of the local railways. For this year, more than 320km of local railways are planned to be modernised, and it will likely be 280km. Among these tracks are certainly important railways Nis – Zaječar, which is 108 kilometers long, Lapovo – Kraljevo, 84 kilometers, Subotica – Senta, 38.5 kilometers, Markovac – Resavica, 53 kilometers and Kumanovo – Banatsko Miloshevo, 28 kilometers. The reconstruction of the line Jajinci – Mala Krsna was launched at the Umčara Railway Station yesterday, and the reconstruction of the train station in Mali Krsna also implies the reconstruction of the railway station. Besides this, in June 2018, the performer was introduced into the work on reconstruction, modernisation of the part of the Belgrade railway – Budapest, which refers to the Belgrade Centre – Stara Pazova and the deadline for the completion of these works is 36 months. It is important to say that the financial realization of this project is over 25% and that the physical realization of the project is 5%. This is only one part of the positive and good co-operation with China as regards this railway Belgrade – Budapest, because we know that the fastest railways are right in China and that they have the most positive experience regarding railways. However, it is noteworthy that we have other good relations with China. As for Jelizara Smederevo, we must not forget 2016, when Hestil bought 46m euros. Then, in 2017, China opened a Chinese bank, which is the fourth World Bank at the level of capital. Then, in 2018, the EPS began to build thermocapacity related to Kosotac B3 and the power 350 megawatts precisely with the Chinese company after three decades. Then, we just witnessed that RTB Bor took over Zi Ging a few months ago, a Chinese company that paid $350m and became 63% owner of the company, but also paid 200 million debts per UPPR, which was then owned by RTB Bor. All of this is thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, his personal support we will still have good relations, not good, but exceptional relations with both Hungary and China. In voting day, I will support a whole set of laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54300	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54301	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen MPs, all the proposed agreements and agreements show in fact one thing, that the Republic of Serbia is one big construction site in which day and night work is being built for a better present and an even better future of generations to come. Developed infrastructure is the economic momentum of every country and allows for a better quality of life for every citizen. SNS policy, our President Alexander Vukic's policy is a better quality of life for Serbian citizens, and we will support all agreements and agreements in the voting day. First of all, I must point out that investment in infrastructure is in fact an investment in development, enabling a favourable business environment for investment inflows, enabling new jobs, enabling the development of services, enabling increased number of tourists, opening, of course, and new schools, reconstruction of old schools, the opening of new hospitals, reconstruction and modernisation of old hospitals and, of course, the digitisation of public administration, and all in order to improve the quality and better services of Serbian citizens. What did we find in 2012? One destroyed, one ruined country, a country ahead of bankruptcy, a factory-free country, 400,000 street workers, a public debt of 78% of GDP, a 26.9% unemployment. We simply found dust and ash. Thanks to President Alexander Vukic's only responsible policy, the government and SNS, we managed to raise Serbia from the ashes and that Serbia has had a surplus in the budget for the fourth year in a row and today is one of the fastest growing economies in Europe. What I will look back on is certainly a loan agreement for a privileged buyer between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Export Import Bank, the Chinese state bank, which refers to the construction of a 30.9km section of the Preljina-Požega highway and whose founder stone will be appointed by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic tomorrow. I must point out that the construction of South Corridor, or Corridor 11, should be completed from Belgrade to Preljina by the end of the year. I must point out that the 40km-long share of Ljig-Preljina is completed in 2016 and that it continues to build this highway that should connect the Republic of Serbia with Montenegro, but what is significant is that from Požega one leg will go towards Bolari, the border with Montenegro, and the other leg should go towards Užica and Kotroman, in order for the Republic of Serbia to join with Republika Srpska, or BiH, that is the highway to Sarajevo. What I want to point out in the end is that the progress and development from 2012 to 2018, when the SNS took over, quite visible, that those on our right, which is a yellow tycoon company, shaped in Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Bosca Obradovic, all they knew, knew that they were filling their private pockets and bank accounts in millions of euros at the expense of Serbian citizens. During mayoral exercise, Dragan Gilas left an empty budget in the city of 1.2 billion euros. That's how they did it. Today they're digging in their own mud, mud of hate and evil, and citizens recognize it. That's why they won't, and that's why they vote for those who take care of Serbian citizens, which is Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54302	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54303	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will briefly refer to proposals to confirm financial contracts relating to local self-government, because I know how important it is for local self-governments to participate in projects together with the Republic. First of all, the financial agreement "The Partnership for Local Development with the European Investment Bank", which will make it possible for Serbia to grant a 22m-euro loan for financial support to investments in more than 40 local self-government units, precisely affected by floods, the migrant crisis, which have a low level of development and those that have achieved good results in public administration reform. The project will cover reconstruction of municipal buildings, construction of markets, restoration of kindergartens and cinemas. Another financial agreement Serbia will conclude with the European Investment Bank, which I would like to expire, is a framework to strengthen the resilience of local infrastructure. It also includes 40m euros, and what is very important is the water and sewer infrastructure. Often, funds are invested in the waterway for emergency interventions or funds that are easier accessible to local self-government. Therefore, priorities must be set in terms of consumption, use of source, reduction of water loss or reconstruction of old water systems. Similar problems are in the sewer network. Therefore, priorities must be set in the construction of sewers, collectors and order must be introduced into the use, i.e. the existence of groundwater and land. Of course, this is all important for local self-governments, and even today, MPs who support brief politics are not interested. They don't care about reality. They don't care about the lives of Serbian citizens. They live in a parallel world. As of yesterday, they also have their passports that Zoran Zivkovic shared with them. Another evidence of their hypocrisy is an official DS statement saying that the adoption of Tijana's law is actually propaganda, actually the way SNS collects cheap political points and abuse of rights. That's what kind of people we want to talk to, and that's what kind of people we want to invite back to parliament. But on this occasion I speak to them, and I will tell them on this occasion that we are opening highways, and when they return to parliament, let them tell us what they did to the citizens of Serbia. So, what I'm saying is that on Saturday, Corridor 10's arms will be released from Hungary to Northern Macedonia in traffic. We've got the most modern highway in all world and European standards. If we know that 56 million cars passed through our country in 2018 alone, we know how important it is. This wouldn't be if we didn't have a stable budget and a stable economy. I therefore call on MPs to support these proposals, to support the government's momentum to make Serbia a modern and more developed country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54304	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54305	Thank you. I welcome the representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and citizens of Serbia, of the eight agreements that are on the agenda today, I would like to say something about the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector, improving infrastructure in the area of health care in Serbia. Today, Serbia's health system ranks 18th in Europe from 35 countries in the old continent. This is the moment. In 2012, 2014 and 2016 respectively, when the government changed in Vojvodina, the SNS found a broken state, bankruptcy. Democratic governments have destroyed, destroyed everything, devastated health care, destroyed hospitals, banned employment, healthcare workers banned specialization. Everything but human resources has been destroyed. Thanks to the idea of Alexander Vukic, his courage and determination and risky decisions, the country has gone to recovery and at all levels. This has been a huge job in the last few years. A lot has been done in health care and a lot has been done, but it's always not enough. I look forward to this law and all the laws, and especially to the health laws, because it is promoted and the greatest benefit comes from citizens. It makes their lives easier, it modernizes their therapy. The degree of country development determines the character and quality of health care, the health care of each country. Healthy citizens are the cornerstones of every country's development. That's where it all comes from. No progress without a healthy nation, no productivity. The state is obliged to provide health care to all citizens on every level. The loan framework agreement was signed with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe in Belgrade on 4 April 2019 and in Paris on 15 April 2019. A loan has been granted to finance health infrastructure, hospital equipment in selected health institutions across Serbia worth 200m euros. The project envisions investment and construction, expansion and rehabilitation of about 18 health institutions throughout the Republic of Serbia. Valjevo, Vranje, Zaječar, Smederevo, Paracin, Piroth, Kraljevo and others, including Subotica, are part of this project. Saturday received about 22m euros for rehabilitation. The funds of the future loan were planned to support the already existing investment of the state budget in the health centre, complementing insufficient separation for health infrastructure. The estimated value of this project is at least 350m euros, of which the bank will finance 60%, or 200m euros, and everything else goes from the budget. I welcome this bill's proposal, I support all these laws, and they are for the sake of our better tomorrow, for the improvement of our citizens and for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54306	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54307	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing very important proposals for laws, contracts, agreements and previous speakers have presented almost all the facts and arguments why we should adopt these proposed acts and what are the most significant benefits for citizens and the economy of Serbia. Unfortunately, this session also runs in the absence of part of the opposition, which apparently have other obligations, feeds pigeons in the park in front of the presidency. I have nothing against pigeons, although there are more pigeons than they are, but it is something that best shows their relationship to the National Assembly, according to their obligations here in parliament, but also to the citizens who chose them. As they did yesterday and Tuesday, they avoided making a statement about the so-called. Tiana's law, and we couldn't live off them when they accused us of not wanting to adopt Tijana's law, how we support murderers and other nonsense, and today they avoid making known these important contracts and agreements with international financial institutions, which will enable a number of development projects, as we have heard, to advance the road and railway infrastructure and encourage further economic growth of Serbia. Also, I cannot help but notice the continuation of hysteria in one part of the public in some media directed against the Serbian Orthodox Church, against some bishops and against Patriarch Irine. Look at this orchestrated attack on one newspaper. So it stopped being a leaf long ago, it became a political pamphlet of the Alliance for Serbia. It is a "Today" which has been running an orchestrated campaign for three days both against the patriarch and against the Serbian Orthodox Church and against Alexander Vukic. Three days in a row on the front page, the patriarch is under attack just because the patriarch dared to say that Vukic fights, heroically fights for both the state and the people, both for Kosovo and Metohija. It's the only Patriarch's sin, but apparently unforgivable. If the Patriarch had said something bad about the Wolf, he would have been declared both a hero and a saint of the same media. However, he praised the sacrifice and combatability of Serbia's president and is now immediately declared a SNS bot, soon to be declared a sandwich maker, as they call us. Look at this scandal. The People's Party Vuk Jeremic on Twitter is making a photo montage of Patriarch Irinej and is making fun of the patriarch and many other heroes of the Alliance for Serbia who have been mocking for days on the Patriarch Twitter. I don't have time to read all this shit right now. We deal with such people, with people who are ready to attack the patriarch Irine and the Serbian Orthodox Church and anyone who fights for Serbian national interests, without any shame. I would like, for the sake of my colleagues, who are to speak, for all these reasons, to invite all MPs to support these proposed acts and all other efforts of the Serbian and President government and to make Serbia a decent and orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54308	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Ivana Nikolic. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54309	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the agenda, we have confirmation of agreements that are immediately important to point out that today we are dealing with their signing with countries that will give their money, lend to Serbia, which recognise Serbia as a responsible, safe and reliable partner, confident of good co-operation in the previous period, trusting in good co-operation today and expecting good co-operation in the future. Confirmation of the agreement on the agenda concerns important infrastructure projects and partners signing these acts with the Republic of Serbia are certain that the money will be directed in the right way, and the citizens of our country will certainly feel the well-being of these investments. Today for Serbia and Russia, and Chinese, and European, and Azerbaijani, and Turkish investors know that loans and loans will be directed towards project realization, and unlike the practice that was in place until 2012. By 2012, loans and loans were directed to employee salaries, pension payments to pensioners, simply to preserve social peace, and this is an absolutely bad approach, a practically catastrophic approach that has no perspective and which directly leads the country into trouble and in the position that no one will cooperate with it. It was not easy for President Aleksandar Vukic, first of all at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to face these problems, to face the citizens and to carry out reform processes, and yet to put Serbia on stable legs, where Serbia is today a desirable destination for new investments. In 2018 alone, statistics say, we had 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment, which sets Serbia in the region's leaders. I will refer to the Agreement, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a loan from the authorised buyer for the E763 Belgrade highway construction project – the southern Adriatic, the Preljina-Požega section. The citizens of western Serbia are particularly looking forward to building this stock, i.e. continuing to build the shares of Corridor 11. The priority of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is indeed building a good transport infrastructure and I will be proud to say that we are witnessing such an action that directly attracts investors, where new factories are being built, create new jobs, and thus raises the quality of life of our citizens. It is now being released Saturday in traffic and Corridor 10, a highway was made for the people and the government of the Republic of Serbia once again showed that what was promised and fulfilled. This highway has been built according to all European and world standards. Also, great intensity brings to an end works on building Corridor 11, on certain shares. Soon we will have complete completed and released in traffic part of the highway E763 Belgrade – the southern Adriatic from Obrenovac to Preljina, and here with joint action and with this engagement today the construction of the section of Preljina – Požega begins. The importance of signing agreements that we are talking about today and the importance that SNS MPs vote on them with their coalition partners is absolutely recognised, and those who do not want to talk about this and do not want to support these laws, as well as the proposals of the law of the first part of the session, just because their proposal is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will certainly feel the well-being of implementing such legal solutions, as all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because SNS is absolutely in the interest of all citizens in our country. In the voting day, I will certainly support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54310	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Stanislav Janošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54311	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished fellow citizens, in the last two days, that is, in the first part of this session, we had a debate on the laws that come from the domain of the Ministry of Justice. Indeed, a comprehensive and quality debate by colleagues, who are lawyers. I must say that I absolutely support the tightening of criminal measures, criminal policies against the wrongdoers of this society, towards those who in the worst possible way have violated the law, committed a serious murder, rape of powerless persons, children or pregnant women, and truly deserve a life sentence in prison, without the possibility of parole, because it is a place behind bars. This may sound, perhaps inhumane, but I wonder where humanity was when they did it. Those who are not present at this session, I do not know if such wrongdoers support and why they are not present to discuss such difficult laws and I can only conclude why they do not care about the citizens and the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this part of the session, we have laws on the agenda in the area of finance and I will take part in this debate. When it comes to finance, ways of funding, no matter what level of governance, they attract great attention. These are proposals and agreements that will literally affect the infrastructure, on the Preljina-Pozega highway, on the general railway link between Serbia and Hungary, because this is the share of the road between Novi Sad-Sabotica-Celebia and simply, the first and primary task is to run the financing by the previous government, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, as well as those headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. We have shown that we can manage finances well, and the result is that in the last four years there has been a surplus in the budget. So, what is it that provides safe finance? It certainly is the development of the economy. What provided for the development of the economy is certainly the development of industrial zones in many cities, where the existing and new companies have been revitalised, both in Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Šid, Šapco, Nis, Belgrade and I simply have to tell you on some daily case, the Central Bank Management District, how this is viewed in practice. Granjanin is a city that didn't have a bypass. We had a lot of trouble shooting facades, as well as heavy traffic, or it was difficult. By building a bypass around our city, and this 423 million-dollar investment, we will unload that traffic and connect our two industrial zones. We are constantly boasting and loving to hear when another mention of the biggest investment in the last decade of a billion dollars comes right to Zrenjanin, to the town of Begej, and we have not built a single bridge in the last 27 years, and this year it will begin with that project. We're extremely proud of that. This company, as well as the one that comes with it, will connect with the locals that will, of course, be their committees and we will absolutely affect the reduction of unemployment. This will help Secnica, Žitište, Vienna, South Banatski, as well as the Northobanat Management District. For all those who follow or do not know, Zrenjanin is a city of sport. We are now investing in our reconstruction of a grand stadium with an athletic trail and it is an investment of 200 million dinars. At the same time, we reconstruct the Crystal Hall. For what reason? In Serbia, a big event will be held in a month. D group will compete on Begei and 42 million dinars were invested in the reconstruction of our Crystal Hall, both in ventilation, Sam-semaphora, or parquet and I can't, of course, bypass the old Madison where the parquet was reconstructed. I must say, given that we are a multinational environment, we have very good communication and cooperation with multinational minorities. Of course, we worry about Roma inclusion and recently Minister Djordjevic visited Zrenjanin and had a working meeting at the Social Labour Centre. He helped us and showed us how to work in the future. What is related to this is certainly that taking care of citizens leads and General Hospital "Jorđe Jovanovic" who regularly maintains preventive free checks, and for every commendation is that the special spa rehabilitation spa "Rusanda" in Melenci invested 10 million dinars to reconstruct the indoor pool and the entire pelloid block, which will of course affect the quality of the treatment, and we hope for the tourist potential of this region. In Zrenjanin, residential buildings are currently being built for 40 apartments for refugees and displaced persons. It's part of a regional housing programme. This investment amounted to 922 thousand euros and the city participated by allowing land and the previous very good example is that we have already delivered 11 keys to 11 apartments refugees and displaced persons and 274 000 euros in investments. I can't say we're only working on the development of the city, but we're working on inhabited areas. A very good example is the inhabited town of Jarkovac. I don't know if you know it, but there used to be machines and IMT tractors in Jarkovec, which was temporarily shut down. The Indian company "Tafe" also took over today at the Agricultural Fair in Novi Sad we have an old tractor, old our production, but also new, in that sense, 539. We're really proud of it. I could talk a lot more about all the projects that are planned and implemented. However, nothing would have been possible for development agencies to do their job well if we had no good communication between the District and the Republic Government. We received great assistance from Minister Goran Knezevic and the understanding of President Aleksandar Vukic, so that Zrenjanin is revitalised. We're evenly investing in the future, and that's certainly an option that writes history. I am encouraged by every next move and step because it justifies a program run by the SNS. So I will surely support all the draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54312	Thank you. The word is Tiana Davidovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54313	I thank the chairman. Travel routes through the Republic of Serbia represent the shortest and most efficient link between Western and Central with South-Eastern Europe. In front of us today is the proposal for a bill to confirm the loan agreement that the finance ministry is taking from China's Export-Import Bank for a road construction project E 763 on the Preljina-Požega 445m dollar stake, of which 15% is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The total length of Corridor 11, which extends from Belgrade to the border with Montenegro, is 258km. The Preljina-Pozega stock is 30.9 kilometers long and is divided into three smaller shares. A commercial contract with the Chinese company "Tea Communication Construction Company" worth 400m euros was signed in 2017 and relates to the design and implementation of works on this section. The planned deadline for building this section is three years, and three loops, bridges and three tunnels are scheduled. The last part of the Corridor to be negotiated after the completion of the Požega-Preljina section is from Požega to the border with Montenegro, near Bolar, which is just over 100km long and represents the most complicated part of the road with many bridges and tunnels, whose value is estimated at around a billion euros. The construction of Corridor 11 has great importance for connecting our country and region, especially since it is part of the future Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, as from Požega to the border from BiH remains to build about 60km of highway. The 40.36km long share of Ljig-Preljina was released in traffic in 2016. The value of this stock financed by the Republic of Azerbaijan's loan cost 308m euros. Obrenovac-Ub-Lajkovac-Ljig, which has been built since 2014, is 62.7 kilometers long. The value of the works on Obrenovac-Ub and Lajkovac-Ljig shares was $335m, of which 10% is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the rest from China's "Eski" bank's loan. The Ub-Lajkovac share cost 73m euros and was financed from the Republika Srpska budget. Obrenovac-Preljina stock will be released in traffic during the next month, which will significantly relieve the Ibar highway and make it easier for our citizens to move on this route. Poor traffic infrastructure for years was one of Serbia's largest development restrictions. The importance of building Corridors 10 and 11 is multiple, for both citizens and economy, and for the development of local self-government. Construction of modern cars enables better integration and more intensive transport and trade, local self-government are more attractive to foreign investors, to build factories and create new jobs. It also contributes significantly to the development of tourist destinations. Today we have positive macroeconomic indicators, we have a surplus in the budget, inflation within the envisaged borders, a stable exchange rate of the euro, a reduction of public debt and a deficit of the balance of payments, and all of this has been achieved through the responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Alexander Vukic, which has allowed us, among other things, to launch significant infrastructure projects, and over the last few years more miles of roads than decades before. Thanks to responsible economic policy and the stabilisation of public finances, we today have money that we can spend on building roads, kindergartens, hospitals, schools, which is in the interest of our citizens who give us daily support because they chose us to build decent and modern Serbia, and in the past they sent hooligans who harass our citizens and demoralize our cities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54314	Thank you, colleague of David's. The word has Milimir Vujadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54315	Dear colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if they would personally ask me what it is that citizens are most interested in all of our congregation discussions, I am sure these are topics like those that are before us today. First of all, those concerning the construction of railways and roads in the Republic of Serbia. It's kind of logical. It is clear that construction of railways, roads and other traffic infrastructures is a basic condition for the development of an entire society, hence both family and individual in the Republic of Serbia and beyond. However, these agreements that we are talking about today are certainly one significant political aspect and they paint and are an indicator of today, to say politically and each other, the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, which is primarily due to the president of the state, but in the end both the government and the citizens who support it already from the election to both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you take a good look at these contracts, of course you can also see in them that Serbia has never had a better international reputation for major global political players, especially when it comes to these big China contracts, it is an indicator of the good relationship of our authorities with Chinese authorities while maintaining good relations with all other important political factors in the world. On the other hand, you can notice that it is also about the development of regional co-operation and the development of co-operation with all our neighbours, so look at the contract regarding the construction of railways towards our northern neighbour in Hungary and it undoubtedly speaks of the development of some good regional relations. But, on the other hand, it certainly also speaks for the development of concern for our countrymen in the region because the contract on the construction of the highway towards Požega continues to towards Republika Srpska and it certainly is in itself and it brings and shows concern, to say about our unique national Corps on the Balkans and the work on its integration, above all on the connection with Republika Srpska. When we talk about the development note of these contracts, I guess I can say that, first of all, from the aspect of the local self-government that I come from, first of all from Subotica, and this is something that, apart from all those things that have been good so far and which have been financed in recent years in Subotica and the highway Corridor 10 and Y arms, investment in Palic and National Theatre and city infrastructure in Subotica. After all, it will create a good investment environment for each individual's life in local self-government. In addition, it will create a good investment environment for every single individual's life in local self-government. Dear Ministers, taking this into account, I am sure and I can convey my gratitude to you from northern Serbia, while at the same time asking you to continue on this path and when it comes to co-operation with our northern Hungarian neighbour, but also when it comes to the deadlines foreseen for the implementation of these projects. With this in mind, I ask you once again to guard and promote cooperation with our neighbours, with our country's countrymen, and as long as these things are going that way, be sure that both the people of Subotica and North-Bačka district, I am also safe from Serbia, from Republika Srpska. After all, to support both this government and the SNS and our partners, along with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54316	Thank you. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54317	Chairman, just tell me how many minutes do I have? (President: three and a half minutes. Here you go. Thank you. The agreements we are discussing today are evidence that the development of infrastructure, the modernisation and development of Serbia, and the better life of citizens are one of the priorities of the SNS, which is the headquarters of the ruling coalition and of course the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These agreements are important for the development of road and railway infrastructure, health infrastructure, as well as for the improvement of electronic administration. The forecasts of experts are that in just a few years we will have 70% of GDP from traffic and telecommunications and that the level of living standards of all citizens will depend on exactly how much we are connected and on communication. That is why the aim of the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia is to work intensively to build infrastructure, which these agreements are precisely showing. In contrast, we have an opposition that is across from us, in the pioneer park beneath the white tent, instead of being here in parliament, and in fact most of the current opposition is the former government that caused Serbia to be on financial and economic extremity, and that's the real point. We are just witnessing these days that after so many years, the southern arms of Corridor 10 have been completed on one very difficult part of the Gredile ravine and will finally be opened for the weekend. With the goal of having Corridor 10 completed at the most recent time and connected to other routes in Serbia, we are today discussing the draft law on the confirmation of a loan agreement with the Eski Bank for the construction of a stock from Preljina to Požega. Another important agreement is about building the Belgrade-Budapest railway, specifically the railway section from Novi Sad to the Kelebi crossing. It's a commercial loan that has multiple meanings for our citizens. In a few years, we will be moving from Belgrade to Budapest in two hours. The Belgrade-Budapest railway is a global project, part of the One Belt project, which connects Europe with Asia. Modernising this railway will include Serbia in the trans-European and transport network, which is of particular importance from the European integration point of view. A very important agreement for Belgrade's Belgrade citizens is related to the construction of sewage infrastructure on the left bank of the Danube. Because of the agreement we have with the European Investment Bank, finally citizens living in Ovca and Borca in a year, two will have sewers. The European Investment Bank has also approved grants for project documentation and for the construction of the 1.1 billion-euro sewerage. So, all eight agreements are very important for improving the citizens of Serbia and this entire session, with the judicial laws of yesterday and these agreements from today, can show the difference between the SNS and the part of the opposition that is in the white tent in Pioneer Park.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-16-0.u54318	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the motions of the law from 6th to 13th agenda and inform you that we will proceed to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
