ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-0.u57446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision on the motions of the law from the point. of the 1-4 agenda. I put the draft law on science and research to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 138 MPs. I find that the Assembly passed the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which were tabled by four MPs of the modern-Serbian parliamentary group. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 tabled by the four MPs of the modern-Serbian party party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 26th Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 33 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 33rd parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 33 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 61st People's MP, Ljiljana Mihajlovic, to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 62, which was tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 67 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 68th Parliamentary Group of the Modern Serbian Party to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 72 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 80, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 84 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 91 to the vote, with the correction submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 103 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 107, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 108 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 114, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 122 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 125 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 126, which was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 127 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 128 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 137, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting the draft law on science and research in general to vote. I conclude the vote: for - 144 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted for a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on science and research. I am putting to the vote the draft law establishing public interest and special procedures for the realisation of the Construction Project of the Infrastructure Corridor of the highway E-761, the Pojate section – Preljina, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Slavica Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the realisation of the Construction Project of the Infrastructure Corridor of the E-761 Motorway of Pojate – Preljina, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the realisation of the Infrastructure Corridor Construction Project E-761, the Pojate-Preljina section, in general. I am putting myself to vote on the draft law on the municipal militia, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 143 against – two MPs voted. I find the bill accepted, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Article 1 tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1, in the same text, submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Article 3 which were tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3, with an amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 in the same text, which were tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to article 6 tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 10, in the same text, submitted by MP Petar Jojic, with correction and MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 10, in the same text, tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 10, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to article 11 tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 14 that Ljiljana Mihajlovic has submitted. I conclude the vote, I declare: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 15, which Marina Ristic submitted. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 16th vote by Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 16 tabled by Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 18 that Alexander Seselj has submitted. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 18th parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 18, which Milorad Mircic submitted. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I'm putting the amendment to article 18, which was filed by the Belief of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 18, which Sreto Peric, submitted. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which Natasa Jovanovic submitted. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Article 21, which were submitted in the same text by Verica Radet and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were submitted in the same text by Zoran Despotovic and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 23rd vote, which was tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 24, which was submitted in the same text by Aleksandra Belačić and "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 25 to the same text submitted by Nikola Savic and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 26 to the same text submitted by Dubravko Bojic and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 27 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 28th vote, which was tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 28 that Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 29th vote, which was tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 29 tabled by Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare: one MP voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. I put the amendments to Article 30 to the same text tabled by Natasa Jovanovic and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 31 to the same text submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the 32nd parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to the 32nd MP, Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 32 to vote. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to the 32nd MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 33rd parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 34 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 37 to vote. Peter Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 40 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 41 to vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 42 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 43 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 44th parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 44 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 44 to vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 45 in the same text, MP Sreta Peric and "The Parties of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 46th parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 47 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 54 to vote, with the correction of Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. After we've completed our decision on the amendments, I'm putting to the vote a draft law on the municipal militia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 145 against it. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the municipal militia. I am putting to vote the draft law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 144 against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I am putting the draft law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods in general. I conclude the vote and declare: 143 MPs voted I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. We have a few demands for a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on June 26, 2019, at 6:00 p.m., pointed to injuries. 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the specified members are injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on June 26, 2019, at 18,05, pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not citing a member to whom the injury relates. I don't even know how this showed up here. We can't vote when a member of the Rules of Procedure is not listed. Someone who was preparing the session made a slip. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on July 2nd, 2019, at 12.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 2 July 2019, at 12.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 27(1). Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on July 3, 2019, at 11.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on July 3rd, 2019, at 11:45, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on July 3rd, 2019, at 12.08 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Miladin Ševarlić, at a session on 3 July 2019, at 17.18 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the said member has not been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 4 July 2019, at 11:07 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 4 July 2019, at 12:45 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. Finalizing vote: for -one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 4 July 2019, at 13:45, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. Finalizing vote: for -one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
