ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52041	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 87 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Miljan Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52042	Dear MPs, I would like to refer the first question to Minister Branislav Nedimovic. In fact, 365 participants in the construction of the Trnovsko water system participated in the construction and self-financed all necessary documentation of the competent institutions. A permit was also obtained from a water company for the Trnovsko hot system, and a contract was concluded between the Trnava local community and the Čačak municipality for the construction of the same. The contract has been specified and defined that any decision relating to the water system is exclusively made by the users of the water system at the assembly. I note that 365 participants did so at the time, and today we have nearly a thousand connected to this system with an average charge of 1,000 euros per household. Unfortunately, it has never been established so far with criminal charges and by the court where these money went missing, or what was financed. Local owners today, after 20 years, manage to manage in an unfair way, and without the consent of the users of the water system, take away the Trnavsko hot system and in the same lush city water voluntarily, without the consent of the users of the Trnavsko hot system, as prescribed by the contract. I ask the question to Minister Nedimovic - when will he stand in the way of the self-will of the city administration that knowingly violates the laws and when will he order the same to respect the signed contract? In fact, Trnavsko is hot in addition to the rest of the historical importance for the village of Trnavo and therefore the citizens there are proud and uplifting, which I could personally notice and will keep as a pupil of the eye. The traditional society, which has been displaced, has also written today numerous books read throughout Serbia. In fact, Trnavsko hot and water system remains the kind of citizen it is handed over to the citizens for use. This citizens' initiative was guaranteed and accepted by their signatures, and empowered Milan Tanovic, a local host, to deliver it to the city council then and delivered, as can be seen here, all the signatories of the Tronava-wide era, all the locals who paid what was required of them under the law. I'm asking Minister Zorana Mihajlovic the second question. Namely, in the street of Milan Rakic around 100, it is the territory of the municipality of Zveztar. I'm asking the Minister a question. It's a residential facility, a building. Does the building minister know that on August 23rd, the natural gas leaks, i.e. Methane, which is extremely flammable and fortunately, there was no explosion of what were all the media writing about then? Does the minister know that the municipal inspection then closed the site and established a series of irregularities, and that after that it continued to be built? Who is responsible for what could have happened, and close by is a large number of residential buildings? Is it necessary for the Minister to deliver the video? Our councilmen, the SRS boards from the Starship, made a recording of how, despite the ban on continuing construction inspection, it continued to be built at night. Given the fact that it was built at night, how can the minister allow it to endanger workers working at night? How is it possible for machines to operate in such a way as to interfere with the citizens of surrounding housing units who could not sleep peacefully? How is it possible that someone above the law, who is banned from further construction, continues to build and not only build, but is doing so enormously quickly, and is at the end, or at the end of that facility? We ask the question we Serbian radicals – who has such a privilege as to be above both municipal, city and republican authorities? Is that the way and the indication that if you have the minister's support you can do whatever you want? We're looking for the same as the parliamentary group of ministers to get us a building permit, because we suspect that after a number of incidents that occurred that the facility even owns a building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52043	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52044	I thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, I would like to ask a few questions to the government and the competent agriculture ministry. In particular, for certain guidelines and things that help our people on the ground, our people living in small areas like my municipality, mountainous areas. So, a concrete question to the Ministry of Agriculture, or to the Government – will the regulation on the establishment of a long-term programme of measures to implement breeding programmes in the Republic of Serbia since 2020/002024 be adopted very quickly. These measures have been in place since 2015/2019. It was passed on to the Government of the Regulation. It is a big thing and a need for breeding organisations to have plans and opportunities in the coming period to have through their regional these breeding organisations the ability to transfer to each of our agricultural producers all the necessary things that are happening and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, will have the opportunity to grant subsidies, to provide assistance, and that our people can be prepared, and we can only know that when these agricultural professional services on the ground are more present. With this question, I also wanted to point out that as soon as possible because this programme for these breeding organisations in 2020/2024 is very important in order for agricultural professional services to slowly prepare their way of working, to tour the land. We already all know that in the previous period every agricultural and agricultural professional service is working on the ground and with these people are having talks, giving guidance on how to work. Here, now is the restoration of agricultural land. By the end of March, it is time for our agricultural producers to finish. This is what our agricultural professional services do, for example, in both Nis and Leskovec and in all parts of our Serbia. Agricultural professional service is very important for the development of our agriculture, for the development of all our agricultural producers because I think that people are directly on the ground. People who are professional should transfer all this information to be right and bring down to the level of our man understands both in Srlig and Gadjin Han and in the White Palanca and all these municipalities in southeastern Serbia. So, the regulation will definitely be passed. It is time for this year to bring it in, but I wanted to ask clearly and suggest that this regulation be done as soon as possible and that our agricultural producers, agricultural professional service and breeding organisations can prepare themselves on the ground to work. One more thing that is important for our agricultural producers, I was talking about, and this is about these breeding professional services, agricultural professional services, animal mothering for that quality breeding throat as regards the small mid-east of Serbia, so-called. marginal areas. We talked about it already with our agriculture last week and we expect these problems to be solved for the well-being of our agricultural producers. It is very important to me, too, and I have talked about this before that our agricultural producers who deal with livestock, who live in southeastern Serbia in mountainous mountainous areas, have the same possibility of being able to mix themselves with them and be as good as they are in our country's north, that in the same way our Institute of Breeding, which is a roof organization here in Serbia, that it can be valuable and that it can be possible for both us and Srljig, in Beli Palanca, in Gajino Han and in Babusnica, these municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, mountain and mountain areas so that they can be entrenched by these quality breeding throats in northern Serbia, that it is faster than it is so far. Otherwise, it takes us at least five years for a high-quality breeding cow to get the funding from tomorrow to be a calf to a cow, which is said to be a well-valued quality breeding throat tomorrow, while in the north it goes a little faster, even in three years. In this way, we would have the possibility that our farmers in southeastern Serbia could turn their resources faster, get more funding and thus develop their agricultural holdings. Once again, I think we need to bring these things into line, give greater support to the small environments in southeastern Serbia and other parts of Serbia, give support to livestock, agriculture, development in small areas, and normally stimulate birth in our areas, make it more isolated for our women in the country, to stand out more for our children in the country. Once again, the questions I have asked are well-intentioned, correct and I think we need to solve this in order to save our agriculture and our municipalities in southeastern Serbia, which are mountainous mountainous areas, and they have a chance of development because nature has given everything, and we have to preserve that nature. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52045	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52046	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Using the rights laid down in Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to ask a question, i.e. to request a notice from the Minister of Culture, Mr Vladan Vukosavljevic. This year, namely, marks several very significant jubilee and anniversarys related to the founders of our country and the Church of Stefan Nemanja and the Holy Sava. I will make it clear that this year, it is eight hundred years after St. Sava's independence, i.e. the SPC has gained its self-certification. Eight hundred years since St. Sava wrote the law, namely Novokanon, a legal act, considered the first Constitution of the Serbian people. Eighty-eight years since St. Sava wrote the Karea type, the oldest originally preserved document in Serbian, and also this year is eight hundred twenty years since Stefan Nemanje's death. Also, in this year, four hundred twenty-five years after the burning of the bridge of the Holy Sava. We all know the importance of Stefan Nemanje and the entire Nemnjević Dynasty for the development and prosperity of the medieval Serbian state and how important for our history and culture are the works of Stefan Nemanje and his son Rustko Nemnjević, i.e. St. Sava, who was the first Serbian educator, lawyer, writer and diplomat. They were both statesmen and priests. Large officials, who were not only in Serbia at the time, but also in the Orthodox world left their duties. The largest among them is Hilandar, which represented, and today represents not only a sacred place of pilgrimage, but also a place where our valuable movable and immovable cultural treasure of priceless value is kept. These are permanent historical monuments about the existence of a significant state and great historical figures. In the context of our historic commitment, but also our commitment to future generations to preserve the roots and foundations of our country and statehood, I believe that in this year and as a state we should promote the role and work of Nemanja and Rastak and mark all the significant dates and jubilee that are being completed in this year 2019. In that sense, I would like to ask the Minister of Culture - and how will the state of Serbia mark these anniversarys and jubilee dedicated to Stefan Nemanja, Saint Savi in this year 2019? For example, is there a central event like that of 2013 when we have marked 1700 years since the Milan Edict significant for the entire Christian world, but also for Orthodoxism, of course? For history, culture and the future of Serbia, works and responsibilities of the Holy Sava and Stefan Nemanje are certainly invaluable, valuable things and they have an intransparent value. We have no right to ever forget it, and this year, a year of jubilee is the kind of species that would be prouder and much more significant, larger and more powerful countries with it. I think these jubilee should be marked, remembered, cherished, and what is a part of our identity, and without it, and without it, it's simply impossible to live without it, and everything comes from it. That's why I think these jubilee should be marked in a significant way and special manifestations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52047	Thank you, colleague Dragash. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here's a colleague of Gojkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52048	Dear fellow MPs, my first question goes to Prime Minister Ani Brnabic. The movement to rebuild the Kingdom of Serbia has launched an initiative to remove children from the streets, more specifically to protect children from psychoactive substances. We've started from Novi Sad and Vienna and in less than a month we've collected about 55,000 signatures that you can see here next to me. In the municipality of Vienna, we collected about 20% of the total adult population signed this petition. The point is that parents are helped to take full responsibility for their children, that younger than 16 years in the period from October to April of the month cannot go alone, move alone without a parent's escort or with special confirmation in the public notebook and also up to 22 hours and 22 hours. Also, during the period from April to October of 24 hours, they cannot move without a parent’s escort or with a special written consent that must be with the public notebook. In Novi Sad after internal research, almost 80% of parents said positive for an initiative like this. We don't invent hot water, we suggest something that's been applied in many developed countries, and the example is Iceland, which has reduced by 20 years the number of users of alcohol and psychoactive substances from 44 to 5%. That's a really impressive piece of information. Our proposal represents a broad initiative involving both children and parents and schools and society, where there would be a number of educational ones, to say classrooms, workshops, there would be various sports, cultural and other events involving all family members in order to strengthen the family as a pillar of society. My question is prime minister, will this law at least be considered in this assembly? My second question also goes to Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. According to the data we have reached, there are currently between 20,000 and 30,000 fighters in Serbia with fighting pensions, and members of the Yugoslav Army in the country, more specifically the regular armies of the time, only about a hundred, who have not been able to exercise their right to their pension until today. We believe it is more than necessary to do a revision of the pension and disability system, where it would be seen that the fighting pensions, with, I say, respect for partisan fighters, were assigned to members of their families, and even to underage children, which mainly shows that we have about 30,000 still receiving pensions today. In view of such a revision, we would see that there is actually that expense that has been achieved all these 80 years, in fact broke the budget of the Republic of Serbia and why today we are still paying those debts. When we talk about pensions, there's another robbery to be mentioned when it comes to pensions, which is fake disability pensions. The Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement believes that individuals should not abuse this important resource of funding the oldest citizens, as they are at risk of financial assistance arriving to those who really need it most. We have today, found about 360, I think, pensions that are, but I don't know what kind of epilogue he's got. I'm almost certain that there are many more people who have abused disability pensions, even some suspicious businessmen who receive disability pensions, and huge financial resources in their accounts. I must say that today's fund is working properly and well and that it is according to European standards, but that a revision is necessary, where it would be seen that the Pension Insurance Fund, health institutions and the legal sector has been robbed in an inappropriate manner for decades. So I ask the question - when will there be an audit? Please, just one more question, and that's three. Also, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. National pensions will be audited. We think this is an ideal opportunity for wartime military disableds and veterans to become users of national pensions. People who have defended their country by wars and people deserve to be recognized and helped by the state. The same status should be given to children of fallen fighters. Today, we have national pensions that no doubt belong to the people of the field of sports and culture who deserve it, but most of them financially provided their families and meant nothing to them. 40,000 and 50,000. That is why it is extremely important for us to understand in this revision that there are those who have second-guested this country, but to whom these financial resources would mean much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52049	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from attending Djordje Milicevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Branko Ružić, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Branislav Nedimović, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Žikica Nestorović, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Government, Dr Miroslav Knezevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Marina Dražić, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr Renata Pinjo, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Daniela Milosavljević Ostojić, Executive Director of the Office of the Minister of Agriculture, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of Agriculture, Emina Milakara, Director of the Office of Veterinary Administration, Nena Dolovac, Executive of the Director of the Director of the Director of the Office of the Directorate of the Ministry of Security and Security of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Before we begin the search in details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Central Population Register, I set a short break of up to ten minutes and immediately after that we continue to work. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The debate in particular on the Proposal for a Law on the Central Population Register. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS and Sanda Raskovic Ivić on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52051	Mr. Ruzic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this point in time, the application of this law, which is before us, on the Central Population Register, really seems like science fiction. Because it is absolutely impossible for all the authorities and state administrations, who are authorized in this law to do this work, to do it in a quality way and in the way you imagined it, because it is impossible for Serbia to... Here, today in Belgrade, where population fluctuations from some parts of Serbia are certainly measured by several hundred or several thousand. Now the question is asked – how and how will you do the stay and list of these people if they do not do it themselves? We'll talk later about a law that treats landlords when it comes to private accommodation in rural tourism, apartments, in these apartments on a day that is being betrayed. Now you're coming into a situation where you can't just know who it is when, the fellow Serbian radicals also talked about it in the principle debate, who came out of the country, the cases that could happen before the elections themselves. So we had a situation in 2016, and no one answered because of the fact that there were 19th-century people on the polling list. Is that right? With that date of birth. Now tell us, please, if this data is unsupervised again, and they should serve for the purpose of facilitating the lives of all the authorities of the state administration and, above all, the residents, who will and in what way will respond if these doubts are proved accurate within a year until the next regular parliamentary and local elections, and when it is seen that it was really in the way that you imagined it inapplicable? This is why we asked for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure, even though some of these public debates have passed and a new one to be made that will really be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52052	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52053	Ladies and gentlemen, we have opened the subject of the Single Election List in principle, and regarding the proposal for a law on the Central Population Register. The fact is that this problem of the Single Election List exists and that having the law doesn't mean that we have a realistically arranged electoral list. We also talked about some examples when it comes to entering the fact of death, because Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister, a few days ago as an epochal success, stated that the fact that death was recorded within 24 hours from the book of the dead was transferred to the electoral list, which is unacceptable for us. We think it must be at the same time, literally at the same time, and Minister Ruzic explained that somewhere in some municipality there is a clerk who does so as soon as he gets out of the book of the dead. Of course, he did not answer the question of how it is done when three, four days are holiday, when it comes to weekends, etc. You just can't answer that question. We have suggested that in this Article 3, which otherwise speaks of the objective of establishing the Central Register, and among other things it is said – and that, based on the data from the Central Register, reliable data is provided in the databases that the authorities lead under other regulations, we also wanted to add "The Single Election List". We especially wanted to stress, especially in the Single Election List database, and we don't really know, we don't understand, why this amendment isn't accepted when it essentially in no way endangers the idea of this bill, but I guess we all care that this unique electoral list is really the way it's supposed to be and how it should be. This amendment of ours can't seem to bother you, but it bothers the government's response not to accept the amendment for reasons of purpose. What purpose? I don't really understand. Isn't it a purpose to arrange a single polling list? You're saying the solution to the bill is more comprehensive. It can't be more comprehensive if something concrete is added to it. So, you didn't want this, it's your problem, but it's going to be a problem for all of us, because you yourself, Minister, said, since we've a little bit of a stir for the public by reminding us of the Unique Election List, in some interview that it's not, I don't know, dead people, people who have already died, and that they've stayed in the voter's list, a mass phenomenon, that it's happening here and there. Minister, this can't happen, not a single case. One case calls into question all elections held, which will be held under such conditions. Of course, the problem we've been talking about, which concerns the enrolment obligation, which you didn't foresee, the registration, the pardon, this law, anyone who came out of Serbia. It's, you know, because the public doesn't have that kind of information, you in power have it, and you're also going to abuse it through the Single Election List on election day. I'm sorry, there's been a lot going on in the last election period, and we don't want anything to be left to the case. This amendment is indeed extremely well-intentioned for the benefit of all in Serbia and there is no single reason why you did not accept it. What you have stated is absolutely not a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52054	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister in the government, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52055	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am, of course, pleased to have at least the common denominators, and that is to strive to keep all the records, including the Single Election List, to make it more up-to-date, and that is something that I hope we share as an attitude. As regards this amendment, it is simply not possible to count all records to be updated on the basis of data from the Central Register of Population, because, for example, according to the Single Election List Act, data are already being sent to the Single Election List. Of course, the Code of Parent Books, article 35v, also defines that obligation. The bottom line is that there is no need to mix the Central Population Register and give some exclusiveity to the Single Election List. As for the interpretation given in the interview, I didn't mention a mass phenomenon, and what I suppose is the interest of all of us, is that this unique electoral list is as up-to-date as possible and that, of course, it is arranged in a way that will coordinate with the real state. That is, I guess, the desire of all and of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of you MPs, and we are working on it. When we talk about it, we don't need to raise tension and make conspiracy theories, the fact that some as they call them -- a dead soul was on the ballot doesn't mean that abuse was committed. Because, I repeat, like last week, every election list that has, which participates in the elections, has its representatives in the polling post, on the electoral board, and if the irregularity that can lead to abuse is certainly not going to sign that report. Therefore, because of the citizens I speak more, than because of you distinguished national MPs, there is no need to raise tension and to create something that is simply not the government's intensity, the government's urgency is to make the Single Election List more up-to-date. I'm glad to say that what I said and announced last week began, so, with yesterday, it was bound and the Mother's Book of Weddings with the Unique Election List, and every day simply, we do what you're talking about here and last week, and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52056	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52057	Yes, Minister Ruzic, the unique electoral list of exclusivity and should be. It should be why you well know that for 30 years there has been this problem and that every time the elections are held from the day of the call to the day of the election vote and that there is always, therefore, no real single electoral list to question all elections. We don't raise tension. We, just as MPs of the main opposition parliamentary party, want to help solve this problem, to help you not from the government, but to help the voters, the people of Serbia to at least one of the doubts in the election process, this would be the way. You say it's not possible to count all the records that will contain this Central Population Register, but this is very important Minister, very important, and you know it well, you know well in that short period of time when you were the opposition to how you looked at this. So this has to be solved seriously, systematically and in every place. I'm surprised you say – don't raise your tension. Is it an increase in tension to distract yourself? Well, it's better to do it now than to have tensions raised at the time of the next election. You know, these things can't be pushed under the carpet. Problems exist and problems have to be solved. If you say you're going to work to get rid of all the failures, then you admit that there are failures, and we're helping you to get rid of them. There really isn't a single reason, I repeat. It's a bad thing that you're doing, which you don't want to accept any amendments, especially when it comes to an amendment that would satisfy all those who are today following the work of the National Assembly and those who would find out that you have accepted such an amendment. This is an amendment in the general interest. The unique voter list must be contained as a concept in this bill and later the Central Population Register Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52058	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52059	I thank the chairman. Of course we've done all this and we're working to warn any kind of irregularity, and I think that's where we agree. What we have done is this is precisely these services that now allow every irregularity or newly created situation to be updated in the Single Election List. I must remind you that the MAP also daily sends data on the change of residence of our citizens in the Republic of Serbia, which also goes to the Single Election List, and in order to slow down the situation a little bit, I simply have to help you and tell you that in Article 10, all the records, all 13 records, we are talking about those records kept by other state authorities, update the proper use of the Central Population Register. So it is important for citizens to know – all records are numbered. They are currently in six registers, six different bodies and institutions. These 13 records will now be in the Central Population Register, or in accordance with the law, when adopted, by 1 September 2020.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52060	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52061	Minister Ruzic, let's remind ourselves, the Single Election List Act was passed in 2009, and was then amended in 2011. It's not even until today's Unique Election List. These are copies of the electoral lists. It's a collection of copies of the voter lists. Neither is it the meaning of the law, nor is it the meaning of the drive of all of us who want to keep some future elections in a way that is as little of a commentary as possible. I believe you're up for it, too, but you're not showing this kind of attitude towards the MPs of the opposition. You know very well all these years ago how many Serbian radicals we fought for this unique voter list, how much we made to the public with concrete objections, we had even one complaint to the Constitutional Court when we had a large number, established, of people who were not alive or not in Serbia, quite reliably established. So there are problems. The last election has shown that there are such problems. You remember what it was, remember, and we all know, it was talked about in public, how many calls were taken to vote for people who died, who were given to family members. We're talking about something that's real. We don't want to raise any tension, we don't want anything, I don't know now, we're scaring the people what can happen in that voter list. We just want to hold the first parliamentary elections, to make as few possible remarks as possible. What you said - what members of the election committees do. Thank you, you don't keep here instructing members of the election boards. As for us in the SRS, we do it decisively and we know how it is, but we are talking about what happens if a member of the electoral committee says - I know that this neighbor died, I will not sign the voter list, and nothing is happening. She signed most and goodbye. From that objection, possibly, there's nothing and you know it. That's why we need to arrange this election process to make it as few of those options as possible. I end up, Mr. Chairman, just one more reminder of Minister Ruzic, that what's called the Single Election List, except that it's not in the right sense, it's not about the transparency that you're talking about, because we don't have, none of us can verify whether any of us in the Shop, Backo Palanca, Zajecar is listed in the voter's list if we don't have his home number, and that's not the point and that's not transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52062	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52063	Thank you. I repeat, I think we share the attitude not only of us but I believe all the MPs, but of course it's a corner from which you perform opposition, so I understand that you need something to criticise. In any case, this is quite enough said and done to make us all realize that we are just working on introducing these services to make the Single Election List more up-to-date, and today, at this meeting, we are not talking about the Single Election List, not even the subject, the law is on the Central Population Register. Of course, it has indirect connections. What is true, what you have stated is that the Single Election List Act was adopted in 2011, and in 2012, all local applications were practically translated into the Unique Election List, whatever they call it, whether they are performed or not. The Single Election List is in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. As for the transparency of the Single Election List, again in accordance with the law, we spoke last week, so every citizen has the possibility that when he types in his JMBG check whether he is in the voter's list, where he votes. This is the level of transparency that is consistent with the legislative framework. Whether this should be changed or not, you have the right to propose amendments and amendments to the law, no problem, and of course, after Parliament has said so. There are arguments for and no, but right now in a state where there is a rule of law, we need to respect the laws that have been passed in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52064	Thank you, Minister Rose. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52065	Minister, we know what rights we have and we know that we can propose some law or amendments to it and we do that. But, you know, in this assembly majority of yours, only exclusive MPs have the exclusive right to put their exclusive proposals on the agenda of a session, which is not the case with the SRS MPs, although we have also proposed certain amendments to the Law on the Selection of MPs and to put aside the power of the Law on Executors, which lists the blood of Serbian citizens and many other laws. Of course, it's not a topic for talking to you, but the topic is this very Central Register. Article 3, there are a lot of details and we don't understand why this other very important detail to you, to accept the amendment and to add "and a unique electoral list". Believe that you will satisfy many who want the electoral process to be the way it really should be and as foreseen by the law. You know, as our people would say, the extra head doesn't hurt, so there would just be one more place where we could say -- here's the law that obliges you to do that. Mr. Ruzic, accept this amendment to the SRS, you'll see, nothing hurts.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52066	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52067	Mr. Minister, for us, it's a very important question of the Single Election List. We told the previous ministers, we're talking to you now. Just to remind you that Milan Markovic, in his time, said he was the most orderly, best polling list precisely when he was the minister of local self-government. (Milorad Mircic: A member of the DS. That's right, my colleague Mircic. That was confirmed by her statement and by current Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic in April 2017, that the fastest polling list was right at the time, when she was the state administration minister. You also recently stated that he is now the fastest. We had a few conversations this morning with, to say conditionally to the officials who run the single voter lists. There's been a shift, but we insist on one other thing. I don't know what the problem would be, we don't have any fear, we don't scare anyone, but for us what you in the Government of Ana Brnabić like to say is – a tool in the hands of the citizens, a unique electoral list, because it is conditionally said every four years that they surrender their fates, surrender their lives to the regime and the authorities that will come. If there's a mistake, at least let's keep those unique ballots up-to-date and okay. There's one thing I'd like to appeal to you to exercise control as much as possible. Fictitious applications especially occur at a time of emergency or local elections that do not match the terms of the general elections. We have mass reporting to certain local self-governments in which elections are held, in places where in these local elections. I think there's work to be done for the police. By reading the reasoning of this law, I thought this law proposed by Minister Trivan, because it was said there – we will save oxygen, save forests and the like. We have a very serious attitude towards ecology, towards the protection of the environment, but we can save a lot of this paper if it is not at the end or in addition to the legislative proposals we have written whether we have complied with EU regulations or not. At times, the legislative proposal has nearly 1,000 sides, from which it is ten to twenty of the maximum related to the bill itself, and everything else is calling for EU regulations. I think this is a good amendment and we should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52068	Thank you. The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52069	I thank the chairman. I am really glad that although it is one sentence in the explanation, that you have just focused on it and recognized that environmental awareness that we all possess in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The fact is that then, Minister Milan Markovic, later the current Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, also spoke about the up-to-dateness of the voter's list. I have nothing to add or take away. I was saying that the moment we're talking about the voter list was never more up-to-date, which doesn't mean that at the moment they said it, they didn't have the right to say something like that either. So that's where we're going, and I'm walking into that political trap again, to talk about the Single Election List, even though it's not exclusive and the only topic of this law, but in any case, I think we share the view that we need to make it as fast as possible. These services simply cannot be a subject and a fruit of manipulation. They're doing what we're talking about. Here's what your colleague said for 30 years, so I think we're all at the same job. As for those so-called so-called. I think we were working on the subject during some elections a year and a half or a year ago, and the data was very exact. It was Belgrade's municipalities, one or two, exact data on how much natural migration to Belgrade from the interior is, what a trend it was in that moment, and it was not there. So it can simply be used for political upgrades, for political action, it's legitimate and it's no problem at all, but so that we don't go into the subject now to look for data and to point simply to the fact that these abuses of this kind were simply not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52070	Thank you, Minister. Right on the replica Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52071	Mr. Minister, I, and my colleagues from the SRS, have no intention here with you of being politically superseded, but we also have a very serious intention of having a professional controversy and that some of the things that represent serious problems for the citizens of Serbia, and also for us as a state-of-the-art political party, to solve them and to point them to the problems of the past, that they no longer happen. Not only did the previous ministers have the right to say so, no one disputed their right, but because of some correctness, perhaps the electoral lists in relation to those times, on this day are somewhat more up-to-date and better, but I am responsible for you both politically and professionally, however you wish they weren't and there are a lot of gaps that you may not even know about. Your ministry has a large list of competencies, and none of you expect to only deal with the Single Election List. If we point out that there are certain problems, you should accept it. You would also have to, preventively, when the elections are discussed, the extraordinary local elections in some political community, or local self-government, to pay attention to these, as you say, migrations that, according to us, are not natural. We know that there is a major inflow into large cities, that Belgrade is the largest inflow of the population from the interior, but compare a little with the other 11 months of the year, not just in the month when elections are scheduled and held. I am telling you one more thing – it is not true that there is only a major inflow in Belgrade city municipalities, there are and there were others when extraordinary local elections are held. And when you mention it and say that you have a proper relationship with environmental protection, the SRS, I don't suppose you should be reminded, that at the time she was in government she had the first introduction, along with a coalition partner, the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We support it and it's not at all questionable, from our point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52072	Thank you. Minister Branko Ruzic has his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52073	Thank you. I just don't want to take up a lot of time, and I don't intend to, I'm just not in that capacity, that I can politically burn myself with you. The expert debate is never disputed, but simply because of citizens, if for this year and a half, as a continuation of the work of the then minister and now the prime minister, all the services, a single polling list with the death certificate, the marriage birth certificate, there is a daily update, with the help of the General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. the ZUP platform, the reference on the ground can also be the earlier history of the character with a factual state, and they have an obligation and do so and do so, so we have all these in Serbia today. I don't see what's worse today than it was? I think it's better, and I think that's what you and I agree on. Could it be even better? I'm sure and I'm sure he can. And that's why we're working on it. A unique polling list, unfortunately, is always used for political purposes. I'm not talking about the political option that you belong to. I'm talking about general. I think what we're doing is one way to get anyone's argument out of hand, because every government is once a future opposition, and I think that at least this topic should be put aside and done every election cycle over and over again, in a way that is more up-to-date, better and more consistent with legal procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52074	Thank you, Minister. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on the Central Population Register. Of course, this is one very important law, because this law treats matter where all possible data on all our citizens are contained. For this very reason, however, this law should be in the right sense the service of the citizens, that the citizen does not have to walk from the counter to the counter when he needs to extract some documentation, because it can be seen, thank God, now the information technology is at such a level that everything can be checked at present and anywhere. But it's not like that yet. We've heard here in principle debate from the government's representatives that there is the secrecy of the data, etc., which in some ways is true. But on the other hand, if we look at what kind of secrecy information can be talked about here if today every activist of the ruling party has the fastest polling list in its territory? Times change. This is not the time of Ozna, Ubba, etc. Simply, social networks are now present, where each citizen gives himself information about himself, some consciously, some unconsciously, and simply one man's file can be traced past these things. Therefore, I think this law should be applied in that right sense, to allow the citizen everything that follows him, not to walk, as I said, from the counter to the counter, but here, above all, it seems to me that this law has a purpose, to serve those who are more in power than ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52076	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52077	Thank you, Chairman. Here is the foundation in the Ministry Act, which clearly defines that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government is run by the Central Population Register. So the government's office can only provide technical support. Article 10(3) of this law also defined the obligation to provide all data to the ministry, and subsequently to be stored in the Central Population Register. Generally, there are clear reasons to refuse this amendment, but I agree that we are just thinking in the same way, that all of this should be done as quickly and more transparently and we are working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52078	Thank you, Minister. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52079	The SRS's intensity is to fit into this digitisation that is a capital turn in the work of this government, according to the Prime Minister. Accordingly, we suggest that deadlines be reduced, since this is a modern way of exchanging data. Instead of eight days, which the legislator here predicts, to deliver data to the administrator and vice administrators, Minister, we suggest that it be three days. The amendment was not accepted for our unknown reasons. If digitisation involves something that is accelerated and time and how do we know what it means, the shortness of time in administrative affairs, we don't see why this amendment is being rejected? The explanation says that eight days is quite enough. Well, it's enough time and 15 days, and 16 days, but it's been here three days. Why? Because administrators working on individual levels, whether local, regional or republican authorities, are persons who need and how to verify, because these are very, very confidential data. What we Serbian radicals have in general as a remark when it comes to this Central Register, it is from before, and it is about another law used in the functioning of this law, which is that the unique home number of citizens is used as basic data, i.e. based on which it is determined or based on which all records are kept for the citizens of Serbia. Serbia is one of the unique countries in which the unique number of citizens is the data used when determining a characteristic number. For example, in neighbouring Croatia you have a random selection or mathematical combination of numbers that is obtained as an identification number for a citizen, and we still have all the data on the palm of our hand. Don't forget, I just remind you, that so many praised electronic journals, for example, I'm not replacing thesis, but I'm just giving an example, electronic journals when there's a problem, and when those who use it, they use that kind of school records to fix the problem. You know what kind of answer they get? They're making contact with the operator first. There's someone who shows up at the station, please. Most of our people think it's Slovenia, but later it turns out it's from Zagreb central, it's central in Zagreb. These data from electronic journals are available at the centre located in Zagreb, and some citizens conclude that we will not prejudge anything or that some black hunches, as it would say, are being presented. So also with this data where the day, year, month, even place of residence to all the details that are related to the personality, carried out through JMBG, is not good. We don't understand why this amendment hasn't been accepted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52080	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is made by Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52081	Thank you, Chairman. So, the very intention is not at all controversial, something to speed up or not. This is about a period of up to eight days, it's not about data, as it may be wrongly stated here, it's about persons the Authority proposes to grant access to data from the Central Population Register. The previous step is the technical competence of that body established by the Information Technology Office. Following that verification, the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government shall grant or refuse to grant or grant access to that authority, or to specific persons proposed by that authority. So they can get it within one day and within two days, depending on how up-to-date they are. Until that moment, access to data is only for those who are authorised and for the Central Register, in accordance with the provisions of this law, accounts shall be kept, of course, by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So, I understand the intention, but I just don't see the problem. So they can get that within one day. It's up to eight days. They have to prepare for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52082	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52083	Thank you. Indeed, one thing we can realize together is that for the past 19 years, all the ministers, including the government's representatives, the government's presidents who address us here, have one successful character of this address and a successful modusa, which is what is common to all, one kind of demagogy, that is not one species, but demagogy. A short while ago, from my esteemed fellow graduate lawyer, Sreta Peric, we could hear the statements of Milan Markovic, who was once a minister. Otherwise, he was much more famous to the public than to be a minister, but to be called "a yacht". It is the same minister who then forgot, as he said, to hand over to the Anti-Corruption Agency that his wife, just when he was a minister, was given a yacht, which was then a minister in front of the DS, and today was a respected member of the SNS and who declared as minister that the polling list was made in line with the biggest security standards, and then even exceeded himself in his demagogy and then before, let me say, the 2012 elections said that the polling list in Serbia was one of the most modern in Europe. Now I don't know if he was recognizable and by what he's wearing, like Mr. Mrkonjic, he's the only one wearing it with style, "mildness" shirt, so he thought that the voters list was the most modern, but here seven years later we hear that list wasn't good, what we were saying, and all the citizens of Serbia know it, and after this it won't be good. Why won't he be good? We are here, when Ana Brnabić presented her exposé afterwards heard a series of things that were only related to one, which is digitization. And then when you type in, for example, on the internet browser Ana Brnabić, it will come out in turn in 18.7.2018, digitisation of the government's priority, and on top of that, digitisation of the source of growth on the market, so digitisation of the highest priority, digitisation of the greatest chance of becoming competitive. All this leads to a new demagogue process, another four years go by, then new ministers are re-elected and they come back here and tell us – well, now this will be best cleansed, done by best standards, security standards, most modern, and in the meantime, if their party doesn't pass the censorship, it's enough to change, as you can see in the case of Milan Markovic, the membership card and continue the way you're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52084	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. The word is made by Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52085	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just like to look first of all at the amendment that's been filed here, and it's about reducing the deadline for making a sublegal act from six months to three months. Of course we've been thinking about how long it takes from the point of view of the necessary time to realize, and that's why we suggested that it be six months. Of course, this does not mean that it is not possible to complete this act before that deadline, but as responsible people, we want to do our job in a responsible and serious way. That is the basic reason why this amendment is not accepted. When it comes to digitisation, I think the government of the Republic of Serbia has proved that it is a priority and that it is focused on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The fact, for example, that over a million times it did not take Serbian citizens to go from the counter to the counter to collect documents, that this was done thanks to the first draft of the General Administrative Procedure Act, after which the eZUP electronic platform allows for electronic exchange of data between organs without a citizen having to go from the counter to the counter. I think that this is an exact data, very transparent, cannot be a fruit of manipulation and speaks in favor of the fact that digitization takes not only and exclusively as a technical and technological process, but as a social process. It is also a digitalisation, an e-baby, and it is a digitalization, an e-inspector, a platform on which four inspections are now working in the pilot's phase, also digitalisation, both facilitating and facilitating citizens and businesses. So, this apriori negative attitude or prejudice about that digitisation is not good or it brings nothing good or it just doesn't stand. You have a handful of evidence for that only when you turn around, so I just had to answer to this, let me say, political part of the interpretation of the amendment that the esteemed colleague made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52086	Thank you, Minister. The word has the People's MP Miljan Damjanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52087	Here's another piece of evidence for my claims that demagogy is the most successful project of representatives of the ruling majority and ministers when they come here. For the facts I brought out, we listened to seven minutes of demagogue stories. The last thing we heard from the minister was that digitization is good. I never said in my speech that digitization was not good. We can take a stenogram and check out what I was talking about, and I was talking about the way that digitisation was presented here to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia by the current Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and that she talked about that priority all the time and look at the time when she became Prime Minister, before that she was minister and said the same thing, so look how many years it was and then we're talking about you doing something successful. No, you're not. Tomorrow, if the SPS comes back to be in the coalition with the DS, if that happens again, then you'll be criticising the ministers who were, for example, from the SNS ranks and saying that it wasn't right, as you are now criticizing everything that you were doing with them at the time. Secondly, when I was talking about the first part of the process of talking about the voter lists, I said, if I'm not mistaken, you supported that government when Minister Milan Markovic was, I just said that it was possible that if you said the same thing at the time that they were the best voting lists, that it was the best minister, how could it be seven years, eight years after that, you say -- no, here we are now solving it? Meanwhile, how many election cycles there have been and how many irregularities have occurred because of these same ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52088	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. The word has a minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52089	Thank you, I do not want to fall into the trap, given that I am not a national MP, in any case, what you mentioned about these differences of political options, in the capacity of the minister, I certainly cannot speak on the subject, it can be done by parliamentary groups or by authorised representatives, it is up to them whether they will answer you. But anyway, when we talk about it, I can also apologize if I didn't understand you correctly, but I understand that you said that digitization is something good, so we agree on that. If I don't understand you, I'm sorry, but in any case, I've cited the arguments and why this digitization is good and what has been done so far without pretentious access to praise, or cursing, anyone, but I'm talking about what's simply true. As far as the single polling list is concerned, which is imposed as a topic, we didn't have any electronic databases at the time you're talking about, so in 2011, in 2012, or no data was transferred to electronic databases. It's done now. And, of course, the single voter list itself will be more up-to-date, and that is why in 2019, you say that the voter list was never more up-to-date, as it was possible to say in 2012. So, I don't see the problem of what Milan Markovic said, or what the Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said. The more time goes by, of course, the more the list becomes up-to-date. It's just a game of words, I don't know what the problem is. Anyway, I think we're doing a very important job. The central population register, which practically sums up from six registers 13 records into one, central, central population register, combines these data, is one of the most significant ones I would say, after the eGovernment Act, the most significant infrastructure laws in that part, precisely digitisation, which you mentioned. That's why I'm grateful for your amendments, which are here, I'm really trying to answer my arguments and explain why some of the amendments aren't accepted. This particular amendment, therefore, highlighted that it should be reduced from six months to three months, it is a regulation, it is not a rule. You, probably as an experienced MP, know that regulations are being sent to opinions, that it also takes time, so it's simply not possible that something that's a very serious job in three months doesn't mean that we won't finish in five months, e.g. And we'll let the public know, of course, that we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52090	Thank you, Minister. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52091	Mr. Marinkovic, we cannot begin to hold sessions, or start holding sessions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 158(7) speaks of how much the legislator, or his representative, can speak according to the amendment, and writes in that position that he has the right to speak of each amendment up to two minutes, up to two in each. In his first announcement, Minister Ruzic spoke seven and a little over a minute, and the second one was three minutes and three seconds. So, a total of over 10 minutes. Or, if it makes you feel so much better, five times as much as what he was right to. Five times longer, and his total exposure can't last more than three hours on all amendments, so I'd like you to tell us how much has been spent on that basis so far. Another thing, Mr. Ruzic, also as an experienced MP and here he tells others that experienced MPs should know that. It is not nice that then as a minister abuses it, and as far as his exposure is concerned he said that his statement that the voter list is never more up-to-date, that it is actually a game of words, because after each entry and that one entry is made on the voter list, or someone is deleted, at that point the voter list is never more up-to-date, and that essentially means nothing. What we need here to hear from Mr. Ruzic is whether there are duplicates, how many people who have passed away, some 10 years ago and more, are still listed, how many people who have the right to vote and are not in the voter's list. So if we talk about the essential quality, and then we'll have more precise data and data that won't be just a game of words, as Mr. Ruzic says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52092	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I think you're partly right, but in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure and 104, I have the right as chairman to determine, in accordance with the course of the session and the debate, who has the right to reply. The debate was really good and it concerned essentially improvements. Therefore, the debate and discussion on improving the proposal for this legal solution. So, I don't think I was wrong, I just let the debate go democratically and in a tone like that. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic. All right, let's move on. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Funds for Ishared Plants and Implanters of the Land. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs of the SRS and Gordana Comic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52093	You see, Ministers, that you must, as Ministers, and we as peoples MPs, move from topic to topic because points that have nothing to do with each other are being combined, but we are getting along. We suggested, in fact, by this amendment we wanted to regulate the position of the 7th Article 2. The proposal for this law, that in this form provided for in the Register of Distributors and Importers, we add that it is also necessary to include that form in the sublegal act of the Office. You from the government said you shouldn't, because by prescribing closer to the content of the form, it would be a burden on the sublegal law regarding the content. This is very unserious. There's no, you know, it's true that legal norms shouldn't get too crazy, but that's why we have sublaws that the laws aren't you guys being a burdened team, let's conditionally tell the details. The sublegal act should contain as much detail as possible so that the person applying it can fit nicely, of course it is important that this sublegal act, in accordance with the provisions of the law, and it is unacceptable for us to say that the closer content of the form would be a burden on the sublaw. So, you're obviously telling your services, why don't you write something about those amendments just to write and don't get into the essence at all, and don't worry about our amendments being really like that to improve the text of the law and that our intentions are really extremely honest, above all, with regard to the state of Serbia and to all the people who live in Serbia. If you had such an orderly entry into the register of distributors and importers in the way we predict it, then those scary peanuts would not happen, not to say abuses, but abuse is still a better word, when the Russian photo-sanitary inspection banned the imports of pears from Serbia, because it was a re-import, so they banned the import of apples, which left Serbia, allegedly as Serbian and were Polish, so you remember when they were sent to Russia instead of pigmeat, pork skins, etc. So when we say something, then we say it out of experience, and we suggest to the assembly majority that we adopt our amendments, that there will be no more such experiences, that we do in the future in the interests of the state, in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and not the EU, indeed, kill us this harmonisation of the rules, because this bill that we are now talking about is the consequence, that you yourself wrote the needs of harmonisation with the EU, and to ask you what the EU is, that this is something, that it is a tomb of small peoples, that we must never go there, that as you can see, we are being kidnapped by KIM, that we are being kidnapped by Blepcha, to make some ring around KIM. So, if after all this, then after their statement of the Shiplars, etc. If after all this, there is someone else in Serbia, and unfortunately the government, who thinks we need something to harmonize with the EU, then we are people in a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52094	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52095	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, asking for the text "and the EU laboratory" to be deleted in Article 4 paragraph 9 of the bill's proposal. However, before I move on to an explanation, I have one principled question, and that question is – where is the Minister of Agriculture today? In this session, you continued to do what the yellows did before you, which is to determine the ministers of general practice. So, it's not enough that, from mandate to mandate, certain ministers change places, but also when certain laws are on the agenda, you combine sometimes 30, sometimes 40, sometimes 70 laws, as you need them, in order for the debate to go by as soon as possible and to be more unthinkable, but that's not enough, but even something that was once unimaginable, which is that the competent ministers don't even come to defend the bill they've proposed. You can say there's Minister Ruzic, but that's not his portfolio. I'm absolutely sure he can't go up in detail to explain these laws, or prepare for that. We're getting ready for our marriage. In this way, Mr Marinkovic, you are showing disrespect for both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, and it is particularly evident that in every law, in every way you are trying to fill the EU, as if the EU had not done us enough harm, and that even a few days ago, the EU's high representatives, namely France, have not said clearly and openly that there is nothing since Serbia's entry into the EU, because the EU is in trouble, the EU is being restructured. How long will it take, so even if, God forbid, we meet all the conditions, I say, God forbid, because all these conditions are harmful to Serbia, you would not be admitted to the EU again, because they do not want you there. It is clear that Serbia will face a large number of blackmails. This isn't the last thing with Kosovo. You will also be blackmailed by the Republic of Croatia, which also has territorial claims towards Serbia, and the question is who else will raise his head when he sees that Serbia is weak, that Serbia gives up its territories, that it disowns its national interests, is in such situations, and those who never would, and then they say so, let's look for something, let's do something, let's do something, let's do something to catch up with it. So, you are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your job is, first of all, to take care of the citizens of Serbia, and if you do so properly, Serbia will be a happy and prosperous country and no one will need that mantra to be better and that we will live better when we enter the EU, which, fully convinced, will never happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52096	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I have to tell you, I don't share your opinion. We all know Minister Ruzic is one of the top intellectuals, he can prepare himself well to defend all bill proposals from all resolutions, so it is not disputed. He's got that right by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52097	Instead of this law, Mr. Ruzic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which wants to, if it wants to help farmers, it was necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to come with a new law on organic production and incentives in organic production. If that's what the law would be called now, it doesn't matter, it matters. We in Serbia have, at this moment, while we are sitting here, here is now this spring set on the threshold, certainly 300,000 hectares of unprocessed land and you as Minister of State Administration and local self-government are traveling all over Serbia, so you see, unfortunately, when I go through the forest to my native Kragujevac, every day to work and back, how much land is abandoned. The bottom line is that, of course, the highest estimate of this in Pcinjska and Pirotski County is that some municipalities have as much as 50% of the country's abandoned farm. Imagine that, and we have the poor on the other side of the population, a farm that is hard to survive and small agricultural holdings in the country that barely have for that basic reproduction. On the other hand, only 15,000 hectares are under organic production. In order to start agriculture and to have a future and to keep those children growing up in these landowners in the country today, you have to keep in mind only that we base ourselves on organic production which is the future and which is cost-effective and on only one hectare of the surface. They are mostly on average in these parts of Serbia, so here they are in Šumadija, and it is saddened to see why they sell entire properties, that no one has to come to these villages, that schools are closed, that there are no more shops, no more mail, nothing left but old people to live, and that country is failing. In this direction, you too, Mr. Ruzic, and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, because that way you would also help hire. It would be much better to invest that money in these places and start organic production wherever possible, and make sure that there are young people and young couples and those boys and girls who have just finished high school so they want to stay in the village, just to be given some incentive, than you give these foreign companies both a hand and a hat of 10,000 euros, and the question is how many they will survive. When it begins with one such production that I repeat, the future for Serbia, be sure everyone who is able to do so, when the state helps him and has revenues at a few thousand euros a year, on a culture, and changes them. You have households around Vojvodina where people produce 10 and more organic vegetables on one plot. Be assured that he will guard his hearth and will neither move from the ground nor seek any other place to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52098	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52099	This intervention, which concerns Article 22, or Article 44 of the basic law, mainly concerns the criminal provisions of this law and since certain fines relating to legal persons are provided for in the event that they do not comply with this Bill, we have added here to indicate the importance of this. We added that a responsible person, in a legal person, should be sanctioned for it. However, one should consider another fact. What counterpart Natasa Jovanovic was talking about, it should really be applied in practice, then Serbian citizens, and above all, agricultural producers would have great significance. Mr. Nedimovic, spoke in principle, that we have achieved record yields in corn production, and they move about 18 and a half tons per hectare. It is indeed a record production, and the average production in Serbia is moving about 4.5 tonnes. There are extremely good experts in Serbia, who say that with very little investment, respect for the technological process and, of course, by applying the expertise and knowledge that our experts have, above all at the agricultural college, departments and institutes, agricultural colleges could raise it significantly. That's seven tons per hectare. Given that we have about a million acres under the corn, that's the average of what might be sown every year, depending now on the spring conditions of the seed, and if production were seven to seven and a half tons per hectare, that would be seven and a half million. It is known that our need for human, for cattle and for every other diet, this product, is about four and a half million. It remains for the free market, i.e. for exporting about three million tonnes, times the stock price of corn is somewhere around 16 dinars. It would be a huge income for the state of Serbia and we wouldn't have to deal with this next law at all, which is behind, where we're talking about both GMOs and the like. This, gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture, of course, I don't think Mr. Ruzic can talk about this subject, but co-workers of the Minister, associates of Nedimovic, these things should certainly be passed on to him and one proactive step should be taken, one intervention that would mean a lot to small agricultural producers, as well as those who are seriously involved in this production.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52100	Thank you, colleague Perich. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52101	Thank you. I thought someone would propose an amendment to Articles 23 and 25, but you've read the members above, so I'm going back to Article 23 and 25 on amendments. Therefore, Article 23 provides that this law is to be postponed until 2023, practically with sublaws, when it comes to the adoption of certificates on the importance of professional user certification, for the application of plant protection funds. Article 25 also, until 2023, when it comes to control testing of pesticides. I ask the question again, why does Serbia extend for the next five years, when testing pesticides and thus increasing pesticide consumption and other chemical products in plant production, to the health of consumers, endangering export contingents of agricultural and food products, jeopardising the health of agricultural producers, which, as a rule, do not have adequate protection equipment and therefore do not use the funds that were purchased yet in 2014 and stand at 31 centres in Serbia? Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52102	Thank you, Professor. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52103	You have received amendments, submitted by MPs on the draft law, as well as by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52104	This amendment is a principled position of the SRS, and it refers to that you, in every draft law, or government in every draft law, are governed by some concept, explaining to us what is a catering facility, what is a roaster, what is fast food, what is primary production, what is official control, etc. This really, we don't think has anything to do with the essence of this or any law, and we're always asking that a member like this be wiped out. It's interesting again why the government doesn't accept this amendment, and every time they do, they have a different explanation. Today, they say that the definition is used in the food safety law, and for this reason again to comply with EU regulations and changes that have arisen in the regulations governing the area of food safety. So, the EU, we have to do it again and again, and we always will, the EU is a phantom organisation that Serbia cannot go to. The European Union is taking KIM away from us. Because of the EU, Serbs in KIM are in some kind of ring by the Cypriot police. The European Union is taking Trepchu away from us, leaving so many people without a job, stealing the property of the Republic of Serbia. The European Union, when it comes to food, food security, etc., poisons citizens of Serbia. We are daily able to hear the garbage imported under the company and the label of food from the white world to Serbia. The worst, thanks to the authorities before you when an association agreement is signed – the CAP, Serbia loses more than 200m euros annually, because imports from EU countries are produced without customs payments, then competition is created for agricultural producers in Serbia. Then, you have in the markets or in the markets of apples from the white world that are cheaper than those produced in Serbia. You are thus destroying what little agricultural production we have today in Serbian villages. We don't mind imports from the white world, of course quality-checked food, but we have to pay customs, so then these apples have to be more expensive imported, they have to be significantly more expensive than our apples. If someone is suffering from an apple from the EU, let them pay twice as much as the one growing in Serbia, we don't care, Serbia, or the state cannot allow, and it has already allowed for years, for our peasants to be in a humiliating position in relation to the products imported from EU countries. You've explained it nicely in this dictionary. That is why we propose to delete the wording and to finally initiate the procedure for Serbia's exit from this SAA, because we will not be in the EU, and all these years we are making problems for ourselves, we are making our own expenses, and in the end, we will certainly be kicked out of the SAA, although they are still not worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52105	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52106	When we talk about food safety and this amendment that we have submitted to this existing Article 4, where these terms are regulated, Mr Ruzic, we need to talk here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although there is no Minister of Agriculture, it does not interfere with us, and the concept of new food. When we say new food, someone's gonna think it's something that's been produced fresh and it's not. It is all about all those foods that have been widely placed on the Serbian market today, which have been certified, you are still insisting on it, exclusively under the EU regulation since 1997, when they put it on their market, so today we have various substitutes and foods that are mainly in healthy food stores, in some pharmaceutical products as food supplements and help treat certain diseases. Which one of you used or heard of noni juice 10 or 20 years ago, whose seeds, Antarctica wing oil, and not counting any further? You can buy all this today, but the question is to what extent is it healthy for a man and why did you mainly base yourself on EU standards? Since you have not considered that many of these products, plants, algae and anything else that can also help treat certain diseases and, in general, the total immune system of man is located in the area of vast China friendly, Russia and other countries, India, Indonesia, and you have put your focus on the EU Regulation and on the EU directive, which, as fellow Serbian radicals have said on several occasions, is today kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. They've ruined everything for us. Most of them are responsible for what we are in this situation when our agricultural production is at stake, regardless of all attempts by the government to revitalise it, and you are again handling their rules. The question arises – why does some Russian Federation distributor, who has a particular plant, or China, not repeat, who wants to place it on the Serbian market, not do so again? Because you are the sole guides of the arches of those who are the enemies of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52107	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act. This is another law passed by EU order, and the SRS has repeatedly warned you that everything coming from the EU is not good for Serbia. As a rule, it's not good for Serbia, but you insist on pushing those European laws. As far as food is concerned, it is not necessary to speak of how important it is for the population and for our country. However, we know that today large quantities of food are imported from these EU countries, although the state of Serbia has been known through its history as a country that was self-sufficient in food production and was an exporter of food. I don't think there's a proper control of everything that's being imported if there's nothing else, then because we know we don't have enough of these sanitary inspectors, and the food that's being imported, first of all, is being decided by these trade lobbys, and that's why it's not by any chance that there's a huge amount of food being imported from some countries' war reserves, so we have beef from Argentina who knows how old and some other stuff. As a state, we need to pay much more attention to this matter so that there is no poisoning, or damage to the health of our people. We had a situation a few months ago when the Lidl trade chain opened in Serbia. We saw how many of our people, people with a smaller home budget, were forced to buy food at a cheap price, even though no one then examined the quality of that food. I'm not talking about GMO food. We'll talk about this later. That's what my colleagues were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52109	The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Chevarlich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52110	Thank you. I thought we'd still be on Article 1. Since Article 1 refers to the application of the standards that it prescribes, among other things, the Code of Alimentarius, I am obliged to warn the public, as well as the MPs here, of the following facts that came from the discussion "The Code of Alimentarias" in 2018, which I can document with the website. So, the first fact, genetically modified plants and animals contain foreign DNA, whose impact is not the subject of a security assessment by the US Food and Drug Agency, nor any other government agencies. Secondly, GMOs contain genetic markers that create resistance to antibiotics, GMOs and the environment, helping to create new resistant, superinsects, supercoals, etc. Furthermore, genetically modified food, which is first introduced here in Article 2, is not defined as food for humans, and behind that is the term: genetically modified food for animals, which is the subjugation, that is, the control of animals for humans, and we can understand what that means. It is treated as an essential equivalent to unmodified food. However, there is no concept in science that implies or can be scientifically defended as a fundamental equivalent. Finally, GMOs reduce fertility, organ function, foetal and neonatal survival, immune functions and many other parameters. Genetic material contaminates the DNA of other plants and animals. GMOs dominate natural and are built in DNA in wild species in unforeseen ways – wind, pollination, etc., and new criteria that produce are influenced in a completely unknown way. Then, genetically modified plants are modified to tolerate high levels of toxic chemicals that produce an increase in the use of these chemicals to 400%. Then, the same companies that modify food, i.e. GMOs and other organisms, produce chemicals that make them resistant. Also, products and medicines for the treatment of people from diseases arising from them, which is related to the fact and should be taken into account when discussing this article. I am sorry that the Minister of Agriculture and his associates are not here to provide adequate answers not for me, but for the MPs and for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52111	The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the constitution and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52112	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, healthy food is a human right. Mr. Chevarlic is here to spread delusions. So this is the professor who taught cooperatives, who took genetically modified organisms as his idea and spreads error for days. Several times both here and on the Committee, it has been explained to him, and I will read – that genetically modified food and genetically modified food for animals and food for animals obtained from genetically modified organisms are in accordance with a special regulation. This food is defined by specific regulations. This special regulation is the 2009 Law on genetically modified organisms "Official Messenger 41". Article 2 says - no modified living organism, nor can a product of a genetically modified organism be placed on the market, or kept for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is also very clear in this article in point 6 that genetically modified food is considered to be one that is in line with these specific regulations, and the special regulation says that this is prohibited in Serbia's territory, and it has been repeated several times on the Committee and in this Assembly. However, as chairman of the Committee, I must say that Mr. Ševarlic has persistently refused to accept and that genetically modified organisms are banned by the 2009 Act on genetically modified food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52113	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52114	Thank you very much. There is no defined concept of genetically modified food in the 2009 Law on genetically modified organisms. There are 14 or 15, I can't remember precisely now to remember the specifics that have been defined, and in a private debate with one of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, I received the answer that the Law on genetically modified should have been amended before these amendments and the addition of the Food Safety Act, and therefore this concept of genetically modified food was considered to have been introduced into the draft law. So, I agree that the concept of genetically modified food should be introduced, but it should be defined that there are two types of food, one is food for humans, and the other is genetically modified food for animals, and the third and fourth subgroups are, as proposed here, food from genetically modified organisms for humans and food from genetically modified animal organisms. The fact is that the concept of genetically modified food is not defined, and I don't see how I spread it to panic if not those who spoke in this assembly that the cherry tomatoes has been genetically modified with the genes of a stinking animal, causing panic and creating confusion in parents who feed their children to tomatoes and if the cherry tomatoes are not genetically modified, but it is the result of a cross-breeding by two types of tomatoes, wild tomatoes and garden tomatoes. Therefore, I am not talking about the statements by the Minister of Trade since 27 August 2016 published in "Politica" in the article to eat GMOs in Serbia. So, if the trade minister claims to eat GMOs, then I don't know who's spreading panic?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52115	Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ivana Dulic Markovic, a former agriculture minister, has tied 200,000 tonnes of soy juice from GMOs. The then professor of the Faculty of Agriculture in Zemun kept his mouth shut. He didn't mind. Now it appears, although I must read again, for our viewers, no modified living organism, nor can the product of GMOs be placed on the market, or grown for commercial purposes in Serbia's territory. Is that clear enough for everyone but the professor? Who and what modification did Ivana Dulic Markovic experience to date, I have explained this several times? So by 2012 absolutely, although it was imported, no one was interested in it or the professor, because Dusan Petrovic and Mr Milisavljevic had previously paid 61-62,000 euros from the STAR project to the gentleman in question. The Ministry of Agriculture from the STAR project paid the professor 62,000 euros and there were no stories, although the 2009 law was. So, again, in Serbia's territory, GMOs, or field production, are also banned. If I have to read it one more time, I'll read it and repeat it in this law. The GMO law is not on the agenda, and the law prohibits GMOs. So how many times do I have to explain it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52117	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52118	I believe that there is no person in Serbia who would be more pleased that what it says in the 2009 GMO law and remains in the future, but time will show who is telling the truth and who is not. As far as the truths are concerned, that the Ministry of Agriculture paid me 62,000 euros, it's not true, it's never that much money I didn't get from anyone, and especially not from the Ministry of Agriculture. At the time, I offered the previous speaker a bet, or bid of 60,000 euros to prove it. It is true that I was the manager of a project that paid a certain amount, but never 62,000 euros and less, and even one part was returned because of the interruption of the project, i.e. the deadline for the project. So, according to the project, I got, I think, a total of about two and a half years' worth of four and a half thousand euros, counting both travel costs abroad and serving all foreign experts involved in the implementation of the project. I've received far greater money from the project I've been doing during this regime's term of office twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52119	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52120	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm afraid the professor has identified himself. I was talking about a professor who received 62,000 euros from the STAR project from the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Star project was supposed to apply to cattle farming on the Old Mountain. Now they're gonna hand me those papers to show them again by who knows which time, but for the viewers to read again, what would happen if it were. So at this point in the law, and nothing changes about GMOs stands – a ban on placing on the market, Article 2. "Official Messenger 41/2009" no modified living organism, nor a product from GMOs can be placed on the market, or kept for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What more do I have to explain? Is it clear to everyone that GMOs are banned in Serbia, everyone but him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52121	You have no right to a replica, colleague Chevarlich. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we consider Serbian radicals and claim that the state of Serbia has the best conditions to produce healthy food. True, after 1999, the bombing of Serbia's territory has changed slightly, but we continue to argue that Serbia has the best conditions to produce healthy food and should insist on it and persist. But perhaps parallel to this, or even before the adoption of the law on food safety amendments and additions to the Food Safety Act, a law should be passed that would protect Serbia's market more seriously from food being imported. Minister Nedimovic said there will also be a national laboratory to examine and determine the correctness of the food being imported. Here, a far greater accent should be thrown at what may be compared to some other countries far more developed than Serbia, which is the depravity of these agricultural parcels. It may also be a good opportunity to produce those foods that do not involve a high technological level of development, where perhaps in the absence of work, for the rural population above all, they could provide enough agricultural production and employment for their household members. But official politics and the government of the Republic of Serbia do not run such a policy. Here, you've given all the benefits, all the benefits, to this, what's called a racket, no, "Tenis," I apologize, but it's something like that. You've given all possible benefits, and our smaller agricultural producers are not protected in Serbia. They will find it very difficult to withstand the battle in the food market with large world chains where globalism has already taken the price in Serbia, it will be difficult to withstand the struggle on the market. They need all kinds of help. Their production needs to be speeded up, training needs to be done. I think that some little smarter people who loved Serbia more than certain members of the government today, and probably others who were not in the government, had a better attitude towards young agricultural producers, towards agriculture in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52123	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? A colleague, Marijan Rističević, has a thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, it is said here that I am not telling the truth. On 21 September 2011, invoice number two - 30% or 18,000 euros, all with the signature of the gentleman concerned. Then, on December 10, 2010 – 24,000 euros, all with the signature of the gentleman concerned. So 24,000 and 18,000 is 42,000. And then 10 again, 15,000, as far as I can see. Here, here are three invoices. When you add up, and there is more demand, you get 62,000, 63,000 euros, and finally you address the gentleman mentioned to pay him another 2,100 euros on 31 October 2011 so that, I don't know, someone from Iran comes, etc. Here's everything. So if I'm lying, the papers don't lie. Here also, from the Ministry of Agriculture, the date, payments etc., the giro account, therefore, no lies, no fraud, from the Star project has been paid, I said the Star project, 60 and some thousands of euros. That's why there was no rebellion until 2012 about allegedly GMOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52125	Right on the line, MP Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52126	May I ask that the documents shown by Mr Risticevic be attached to the report, that we can show the citizens of Serbia that these are not documents relating to my receipts, but to the receipts of the project and all participants on the project, and that is far less than 62,000?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52127	We'll ask for this. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, I repeat again, the money first signed received, signed below, for projects 60 and some thousand euros. There was supposed to be a study of cooperatives in thousands of copies, which are nowhere to be found, which is nowhere to be found. I'd like to see her. So today it's called corruption. So when you're a minister, you corrupt a certain number of professors by paying them for the project of enormous amounts. I don't know what project it costs 62,000 euros and why it was paid out of the funds it was intended for, the STAR project was designed to revive livestock farming on the Old Mountain. It wasn't meant for professors, but, well, it ended up in the pockets of various consultants. All the documentation on the STAR project I'm trying to give you, of course, copy this, that you have in the record, with any document. I stand out of what I got from the Ministry of Agriculture as official documentation. At first, it's said that's not true. Now it's said – yes, that's true, but we got it for projects etc. In what way the funds were transferred, they mainly ended up in the pockets of those who today are trying to intimidate people with genetically modified food, whose production is in Serbia, and traffic, is banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52129	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52130	By amendment. I thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members, when we talk about this amendment that Mr. Risticevic was now talking about, I think, as far as we're concerned, GMOs, in particular, I was as the president of the municipality and we signed that this is not happening to us, normally, and that's a large number of municipalities signed. We also have a law on GMOs. So we can talk about it more than once. The most important thing is that there are no such things in Serbia right now, that this law does not happen. On the other hand, I think it's important to mention here the Old Mountains and the development of the Old Mountains and cooperatives. In 2011, there was no such thing. Yes, then the Stara Planina was built, hotels were built, hotel "Resort" was built on the Old Mountain. The old mountain is now a pearl for tourism development, a pearl for tourism. I think there's a great chance for all of us who live there through a programme of development of cooperatives, agriculture, which this government is now doing, this ministry and doing these people who are now here, we have a chance to develop that old mountain, the development of Svrlig, the small municipalities that are in that part, Bela Palanka, Knjižec, Pirot, Svrlig. These are all directions to developing us in southeastern Serbia. Healthy food, nature really gave us everything and we have to work on it. We have a law that banned GMOs from us, which is right, and we all support it. It is normal that there is no possibility in this bill of law to change it, but to talk about it. So, healthy food on the old mountain, in Srlig, in these small municipalities is a development and a chance. We'll work on it. I, as a folk MP, President of the USS, will support all these laws, because I think these laws are positive, good for the development of the southeast of Serbia, for the development of agriculture, for the development of a healthy environment, for environmental protection. My people and our municipalities, such as the town of Pirot, and all of us living in that area, are a great opportunity for us to have a healthy environment, healthy food. Normally, the Old Mountain where rural tourism is, hunting tourism, where in one place there is everything that citizens and Belgrade and Novi Sad need, and all of Europe to get to Nis, then across Srljiga down to the Old Mountain and to see the beauty of how beautiful it is and how it can be even better lived there than it has been so far. These laws increase subsidies, the development of agriculture and the healthy environment, as far as all of us are concerned, that is the chance of development and our country of Serbia. Thanks again. I think it's right to talk about all the positive things, and GMOs, it's not good, it's not happening now and it won't be in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52131	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this, Mr. Arsic, as you said, will be delivered through the Office, and you decide whether to hand it over to all the MPs. I'll use the authorized time, so you know, the time I step over. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where I hold the subject of the Milk Republic. So it's the province's agriculture secretary, former Goran Jesic. The facility is located in Irmovo, had a temporary solution that turned out to have not been the product of a visit by three veterinary inspectors. That temporary solution has expired. Mr Jesic is known as a fighter for healthy milk, as the famous creator of the aflatoxin affair, and how he hurt our farmers and cattlemen. So he claimed that our milk, the milk produced in Serbia, is not healthy, that it has an increased dose of aflatoxin although it was below the measure and standards that apply in 3/4 of the world. Its aim was to return the quantity of milk produced, the quantity to farmers, the number of cows to be decimated, and the whole time he knew that, when they brought that border measure of aflatoxin, they did not determine for livestock food and that you could obtain incorrect milk from the proper livestock food according to their standards. He's the one who launched that affair. That's what we all remember. I also hold here a proposal against the responsible person "Milk Republic" Goran Jesic, because he was placing on the market milk, milk and milk products without previous analysis of raw materials, without previous analysis of raw materials, without prior analysis of raw materials. So the milk that came into his "Milk Republic" didn't go to the analysis. The solution to the facility expired, and he produced yogurt and creams from milk which he also did not send for analysis. So, you didn't have a raw material analysis, and you didn't have an analysis of the finished products, which was also established in the veterinary inspection log, and there was a report. There was an application and an indictment. There's probably a procession going on. Speaking of "Milk Republic", he also opened a company that had one shed in Markovina, where he produced marmalades, ajvari, etc. in a shed designed for roasting brandy. The company was called "Fruit Republic", so the creator of the great aflatoxin affair is the subject of an investigation because it is milk and dairy products, let's guess where it sold. Here I have this, he says: “I inform you that from tomorrow, 17.3.2016, the delivery of milk milk, yogurt and cream to the establishment of the Clinical Centre will be carried out by the Milk Republic, whose face is Goran Jesic. “ So, no less or less, dairy products obtained from raw materials that were not included in the analysis, milk, raw materials were not analysed, and the products did not receive the results of the analysis because they did not go there. So, at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, there's no evidence that this analysis was done. Now I ask that responsibility be examined, supplemental, for endangering people's health, especially because it was patients, sick people at the Vojvodina Clinical Center. I also have photographs, but what we did a little bit, as our young people say, caught him, he later ran tests at the Milky Way Office, I think, in Belgrade. Look at the wonders, the dates didn't match. Therefore, the dates on which the subsequent analysis was carried out following the ban on performance, i.e. when veterinary inspectors visited the facility and found that it did not meet the conditions, that it did not analyse raw materials and finished products. So, from that moment on, he's been trying to sniff out clues with the part of the justice they chose in 2009. So, on this occasion, not wanting to get involved in the work of the judiciary, the judiciary, the prosecution, the courts, I have to ask for responsibility because that person wasn't a shepherd, he wasn't a cattleman who accidentally opened a dairy store, so he took it out to the market. It was handled by the circuit secretary for agriculture, Deputy Prime Minister of Vojvodina, who opened a wild dairy plant, expired a temporary solution and introduced dairy products into the Clinical Centre. It's about a person who's still trying to scare the aflatoxin out of our livestock. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I keep here a document of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office relating to the court in Old Paz, which, under Article 72. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act is conducting proceedings at Stara Paz's primary court for not reporting an apartment in Vienna. So Goran Jesic owns an apartment in Vienna which, of course, did not even report, and I believe that money is the result of those famous machinations with milk and milk products. Since this is not about an orphan farmer, a farmer who, behold, has placed several liters of milk on the market, it is about a former provincial secretary who launched the aflatoxin affair, and may have compromised the health of patients in the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52133	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ljubenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52134	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Zikica Nestorovic, amendment to Article 12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act was proposed by the SRS parliamentary group to amend this member. Article 12 wishes to amend Article 25 of the basic law concerning the ban on the placing on the market of food which is not safe. Otherwise, Article 25 of the basic law in paragraph 3 has three points, and the proposer now proposes six points. With this amendment of ours, we have proposed an amendment, and by changing points 6, instead of the word "values", we have suggested that the word "concentrations" stand. The proposer again cites these amendments and the additions to the law in an explanation that the law is being amended because of EU rules. First, it states that the 2009 basic law transposes the relevant EU rules, and then cites the lack of a food safety system in the Republic of Serbia, which is identified in certain EU working documents, on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the European integration process, i.e. in the annual progress reports from 2009 to 2014, as well as in the 2016 report, which is accompanied by a Commission statement sent to the European Parliament, the Council of the European, Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions on EU Enlargement Policy for 2016. We of the SRS parliamentary group have so many times advised the representatives of the government in the Republic of Serbia that the law adopted by the National Assembly must be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not the EU and more importantly, that the interests of citizens must be protected by law and respect. I'm going to say an example of non-compliance with laws and sublaws, where we all witnessed just a few years ago, which is aflatoxin crisis when there were frequent changes to the regulations on the allowed quantity of aflatoxins in milk. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should not allow such things to ever happen again, as irresponsibility in such cases can lead to various diseases of those whose diet is not safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52135	Thank you. The 13th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Affairs have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I hear that Goran Jesic is rebelling, I have to read something – the control at the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina was carried out on 6.4.2016. The veterinary inspector carried out controls at the Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad to determine whether the same milk products were delivered ‘Milkreublik’. It has been established that the milk products of the manufacturer ‘Milkreublik’ have been delivered to the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina via suppliers or groups from Novi Sad. That's when the shipments, numbers, etc. are shown. and a solution to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management under the number of those and temporarily approved and banned the work of the "Milkreublik" facility in 10.2.2016. This means that the products were delivered when it ceased to be valid for temporary approval as resolved by the Ministry. Based on the control carried out, the veterinary inspector filed a report for the offence. At the time of reporting to the APR, the responsible person was Miodrag Krinokuća, but the inspector also informed the prosecution that at the time of the offence, the responsible person was Goran Jesic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52137	Thank you. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52138	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have listened to Minister Nedimovic's zero tolerance in Serbia on the production and trade of GMOs, and there is a special law that regulates this area. It exists and it's called the GMO Act. Article 3 paragraph 1 of this Act reads — A genetically modified organism shall not be considered as a product of plant origin which contains up to 0,9 prime GMOs and a substitute originating in GMOs. Article 2 – Seed and reproductive material shall not be considered GMOs if they contain up to 0,1 prime GMOs and substitutes originating from GMOs. What is this zero tolerance? There are also a number of members in this law that allow viewings, experiments and exceptions when it comes to medical use. Perhaps the minister has not been informed, and perhaps because of business interests, the minister wants the general public to deny the right to learn all about GMO ingredients in the food chain. Our people don't know how to avoid buying these products. The law does not provide for the marking of products containing GMOs, and in Serbia, such products are sold in all shops. The world's most famous environmental organization Green Pis made a list of food products containing genetically modified ingredients, so let's say Snickers, Nutela, Elipton tea, Tviks, Milkivej, FerreroRoche, Neskvik Chocolate, a chocolate drink called Neskvik, a children's drink "Nestle", "Cola", "Fanta", "Sprait", "Mecdonalds", everything our children eat and drink. These are the sauces and ketchups "Heintz", a spoon for babies "Hypo". The minister claims zero tolerance. It would be better to include in the law the mandatory labelling of food from imports whether it contains GMOs than we deceive people in this way. Here, the consumer will decide whether to buy a Hippo spoon, whether to give it to his baby or to decide on a homemade spoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52139	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, love of food is the love of fire. Someone who's been hungry that kind of love and how it feels. Unlike these rich people who have become rich, firing 400,000 workers, unlike Gilas, Bork, Bosic, etc., some of our citizens know what hunger is today. The bread of the hungry is sweeter than the bread of the rich. The hunger gives him sweetness. Those who do not know what they have scoffed at those who have almost nothing, though they have left them without having anything, fired them from work, deprived them of their wages and dignity in front of their household. Their love for food and love of food of all the hungry in the world gives us the opportunity to say that the production of healthy food and drinking water is the most important business at this point on the globe, and that in 10 to 20 years, it is yet to be determined. In the Food Safety Act, we have to define the standards and that the food we produce is really good, but we have to organize our agriculture. Our agriculture has potentials that are not used enough. Our plant production does not benefit our livestock industry from the production of meat, milk and eggs. Export raw materials, export grains, corn, barley and wheat, cattle flour, etc. That's what foreign farmers use. We're losing a lot of money. We also lose to the quality of land because we don't have enough land manure, because there's not enough livestock that would help deliver land manure to the fields to keep the percentage of humus and preserve the land fertile. We have to pay attention to that. We need to track developed countries in agriculture. They're like Dutch and Danish to me. The Netherlands has twice as much agricultural land, has over 3.5 million cattle, has four times as much as Serbia has, although Serbia has twice as much farmland, although it has more pastures than the Netherlands. The Netherlands has 60 sunny days, and Serbia has four times as many. Serbia has better climate conditions for food production for people, food for cattle, for the production of food of plant and animal origin. But we are not using our potential enough because in the 1990s we are exhausted by the burden of economic and military sanctions that our country is exposed to. Agriculture carried the burden of social peace and paid for it by a certain lagging behind in technology, production, etc. But in 2000, the joint criminal enterprise that is boycotting today's National Assembly session increased that damage several times. The tycoons will not develop agricultural production and we need to throw the accent on small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, but also to be aware that the Netherlands with 80,000 hectares makes 10 times the value of food than we do, that Denmark, which has 30,000 farmers, has several times more food, is more food than Serbia, which has 350,000 registered landowners, or together with unregistered 650 thousand. We must modernise Serbian agriculture, but also devote ourselves through agriculture and food industry attention and demographics, i.e. that the population is deployed so that no village is free of population, that every village except agriculture has some processing capacity and that there is work for both the father in the field and for the son, they are able or daughter in processing, and that in such a way there is enough bread for both farmers and workers and that our agricultural production is at least a third of Dutch agricultural production, food production, which at this point in export gives 85 billion euros. Denmark only makes export 22 billion euros to pigs. There are almost ten times as many pigs as Serbia has, while the Netherlands has five times as many. The Netherlands has three and a half million throats. Denmark has 500 thousand masculine cows, a million and a half head of cattle, while we have only 900,000 pieces. I think we should pay enough attention to livestock, invest our plant potentials in the production of healthy meat, healthy milk, eggs and other food products, and thus raise this country from the economic rasula in which these people over the unfortunate people who are boycotting the National Assembly's session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52141	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52142	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to talk about the amendment. As we have spoken before, we here in Serbia really have a large number of institutes that make quality seed goods and all that our cattlemen need, agricultural producers living in the territory of all Serbia. We have and we have institutes like the NS Seed, the New Sad Scientific Institute for Ratio and Vineyards, the Zemun Field, we have at the Kruševec Institute. So we really have a large number of these institutes that have a large number of very professional people, such as Professor Miroslav Malešević, such as Srboljub Dencic and others, who have created a large number of varieties of wheat, corn and everything that is being sown and planted here in Serbia, and now outside Serbia's borders, in close to 70-80 countries where it has turned out, it is really quality and valuable. We remember the period when the Novi Sad Institute of Ratio and Vrvatstvo, when Professor Malešević led it, when before and after it were appointed directors, this institute was indeed an example of how to work. But in the meantime, they opened certain things, introduced some other varieties, other foreign companies that were slowly but certainly entering our market, and there was someone who supported them to come here and, in the end, we have a large number of these assortings that are much worse than our domestic institute does, but, simply, rather than doing it on purpose, to destroy our domestics, as it was with our economy. So is agriculture. Once again, I think we really need to give support to our institutes and companies that are doing production for our domestics. On the other hand, in this law of ours, we now have this opportunity to protect our production, these institutes that produce really good quality and good seed goods, quality material, that should come to every cattleman. We must put an accent, once again speak, in undeveloped areas, in hill-mounted areas, for healthy environments, in which there is a chance and a future for livestock farming, for the development of tourism, for beekeeping, for all the things that nature has given us and that we need to take advantage of. For us, it should be an example, as Mr. Marian, Holland, Spain, Portugal, all these countries say. But it's easier for us to look at how it's done in Slovenia, in which way, we have the opportunity to rewrite some things from them, to have them with us. We do this through a cooperative program, through a program to help our women living in the country, for those young people and, normally, for local self-governments run by certain officials, from any party. They must also know that they must understand that they must give a chance to develop agriculture and must have at least 5% of the budget for rural development and agriculture from their budget. On the other hand, we have cities and municipalities where you can't see it or recognize it. Simply, agriculture may serve someone else tomorrow. What I'm saying, I speak as a man who lives in Srlig, I have my own village, where my father, my mother lives. We're doing agriculture. It's a small farm, a few cows, 15 sheep, but trust me, people, it's agriculture. We want these people who have small production slowly but surely, together with the support of our Ministry of Agriculture, to keep these people working, to increase the number of cattle, the number of hectares being processed, and normally, we put an accent on these people. The Department of Agriculture does that. We need to do this even more, but local self-governments must have their own responsibility, because local self-governments together from their work circle must be more active, to help, to hear the voice of this farmer and to get through these local self-governments, through cities, to the Ministry, along with the Minister of Agriculture, with our associates, to work on promoting healthy food, to what we should invest. We should invest in our domestics, in our institutes and keep them safe. Because, I'm sure, homework is much better than what's coming to us. Once again, Mr. Minister, you've arrived, I support these laws. I think we need to invest even more in small environments and give more support to that healthy food through organic production, because nature has given us everything and we have to save you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52143	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52144	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Serbia is not in the EU. We currently have national measures and measures from the IPARD and these are the funds that are large for our budget. We need a stronger industry, an industry that will serve agriculture and food industries, in order for the industry to withdraw agriculture. From this growing budget, Serbia stands out 43 billion for 650,000 agricultural holdings. It is just over 350m euros or by registered landlocks of about 1,000 euros. Croatia, which is a member of the EU and who here, along with these poor people, wants to raise the revolution, members of political parties from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, come here, seek a revolution in Belgrade, do not look for it in Zagreb. They are here against Brussels, but in Zagreb they are willing to receive from EU funds support for agriculture, they say – support. That support's over a billion. Although they have three times less processed agricultural land than Serbia, they get three times more from Brussels's agrarian budget than they do from Serbia's agrarian budget. When you take it, you come to the conclusion that it's per unit of surface, when you divide it, six times more than in Serbia. We stand out for agriculture, for 650,000 agricultural holdings, 43,000,000 dinars. For the movies, we're giving up a billion for filmmaking, but that's where only a few actors compete. These days, Nikola Kojo was dissatisfied with the height of incentives, and only in agriculture did Zivkovic get more than him, for those vineyards, even filed criminal charges against me, because I here claimed he should have played in the film "Mezica", where apparently Serbian doctors, with the support of Serbian police, are extracting organs such as Albanians in Kosovo. In this way, Albanian savagery of Serbs wanted in cinematography, which the state is co-financed and the film was approved by 26,000,000 dinars. Whether it's used or not, I'm not sure. But that main role, that evil cop, was supposed to play Nicola Koi. It is he who wants to be dissatisfied with leaving Serbia. By 2013, the previous government had not shared any major money for filmmaking. This one's cut off a billion. And, look at the wonders, the lucky winners have risen. Nikola Kojo won the film "Stado" 20,000,000 dinars. You will rarely find any agricultural land other than Zivkovic's, which has won so much money. Today he is actively working, allegedly, in the destruction of power in Serbia, I would say that he is trying to undermine the very foundations of Serbia's states, because he wants to side with those who support protests from Zagreb, Pristina, Tirana, etc. He actively sided with them and, in my view, wants to undermine Serbia's very foundations. So there's no agricultural land that got 20,000,000, but Nikola Kojo made it happen. We have Dragan Belogrlic who wants to keep him company dissatisfied, because he only got 105,000 thousand so in just over two years he got 50,000 for one film, for another 45,000 thousand and for the third only modest 10,000. Find me a farm land that won 105,000 dinars. He got even twice as much as Zivkovic's agricultural land. And there, Zivkovic, who received 525,000 euros from the state, boycotts the state's parliament session. So I don't know what we're supposed to give to those who act, like Zivkovic, agricultural owners and farmers, and what we're supposed to give these actors who act like politicians or politicians who act like actors. If Mirjana Karanovic of the budget gave 35,000 dinars, she probably deserved not to be censored by the unfortunate, they could have let her speak to Vujosevic. So there's no agricultural land that's won 35,000, except for that Zivkovic guy, and it's about the man who plays the farmer, the winemaker. We have Srdjan Dragojevic, who now actively remembered that this power was wrong, when he was in it, it was working for him, the entire 30,000,000 dinars. There are rare agricultural holdings, except Zivkovic's, which received 30,000,000 dinars today, and the film "Mezica" which is under some suspicion, in my opinion, 26,000,000 dinars. When you add up hundreds and hundreds of millions of dinars and they get those people, now farmers who get 50,000, 100,000 dinars on average on demand get about 150,000 dinars, which they file. And they respect their country, they're patriotic. They run over the cabin when they see that the state is in danger, through mud, dust, etc., unlike those to which you put in the center of Belgrade's golden street, they will be, not only against the authorities, I have the impression that they will be against the state. We need to think carefully, we need culture, do these people even expand culture. They're not Kusturica. It is necessary to think carefully about where the money should be used and my advice is that these actors who for the great money act politicians should be written off, carefully select young directors and writers, young artists with artistic activity, therefore, those who will make artistic films and thus make a selection in culture. I have nothing against culture, Churchill said – if we don't raise money for culture, then we have nothing to fight for. In the middle of the war, when he was suggested to reduce and abolish money for culture, he said – what are we going to fight for? So I'm not against culture either, I'm against the unculture of these actors who got money for the film, and who don't have any artistic value, shut down the space for young authors, got huge money, they're far more favoured than farmers who get a hundred and a few thousand dinars, unlike those who get millions and actively work against their country of Serbia. That should be considered and the more savings they make and the more they place it in agriculture, the processing industry, because it will make even more money. So it won't happen to us that the third actor Lecic shuts down two museums, bans several newspapers and today plays nice and soon expects him on some payroll to get money from the budget, as he is unhappy with the state of Serbia. We farmers, who are satisfied with our country, who will defend and feed it at any moment, are asking that the government is making money for culture more carefully and that you assign it to young authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52145	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law was proposed on 20 November 2018 and its application, if we had considered it in good time, would have been since January 2019. Given that this has been extended and that it has come to a regular session, my proposal is just to move it to April 2019. I believe this Food Safety Act will lead to our being as safe as possible in the use of food of plant, animal origin, mixed origin. I believe our inspectors can do their job. I believe some regulations still need to be harmonised. I believe it is necessary to bring in the planning documents in the area of food safety, that they do so together by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. So this law concerns not only agriculture, but also the Ministry of Health. We, as the Committee on Agriculture, have respected some of their suggestions, have translated this into four amendments that have been accepted and removed by the Committee and by the Ministry of Agriculture. With that in mind, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government who have found it appropriate to be respected by our amendments to the Committee and to have some individual amendment colleagues and my adoptions. I believe we will always follow the situation from that area and there may always be new changes and additions. So, those who may not be satisfied with this bill, amendments and additions, can count on this Assembly to always be on the side of citizens, that they will not do what these unfortunate people who imitate the Assembly in the halls, who are taking travel expenses, are taking salaries that are not so small, which most of our citizens can only dream of. I respect that citizens have assigned a number of mandates to this unfortunate part of the opposition, which at this point, in my opinion, do not know what they are doing. So I believe that the citizens had the right to do so and that in the future they will consider when such laws concerning human health and human health, food safety is very important for human health, representatives of that part of the opposition boycotted this law and participation in the possible submission of amendments, i.e. in the debate. Perhaps this law would have been added to some better solutions, no matter what they were. However, they did not take advantage of this right and opportunity, it is a clear indication to the citizens that in the future they need to take care when they are elected to such forces, and to remember their names and their leaders, I believe that at this moment they have more leaders than members, but that citizens are well-counted for in the next elections that trust is not given to those who will not make their contribution and will not face opinions, whether they are the majority or minorities, they will not take active participation in the work and try to improve the law. I recommend that the people follow closely the work of the National Assembly. They have the right to their dissatisfaction, but they certainly, since more than half went to the polls, have the right to be represented in the National Assembly on the issue of food and agriculture security in general. The farmers did not deserve a portion of their representatives, whom they feed and defend, to leave the room and to act as some parallel session of the National Assembly, and to run among the first to the congregation register. In this hope that citizens will properly assess what is a productive opposition, what are those who, under the influence of opposition action, want to bring down the state of Serbia, which is rising from the mud and coming out of the bucket that they have just pushed, or some of their representatives, that citizens will correctly assess in some subsequent elections and that no vote will give any of the representatives who are allegedly representatives of that part of the people who voted for them. At this point, they have left that part of the people without representation in the National Assembly, and I suggest that voters remember it well and that no vote goes into that box of theirs anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52147	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on plant protection funds. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed to delete in Article 1 of point 12 of that article part of the text which says it is in line with the relevant list in the territory of the European Union. So I don't know how many times we have to tell you that it's high time for Serbia to give up its way to the European Union. I will remind, first of all, because of the public of Serbia, and it is known that it is no longer a secret, it is known what the Shiphars are doing in Kosovo and Metohija, they have no idea to lift the fees they have imposed, these so-called. Your European friends who come and give you carrots actually say to them in a joke: “Stop these taxes, ” and then they say: “Just drive in your own way. ” It is high time we stopped accepting this game of sticks and carrots with the European Union. We also recall that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are in some kind of steel ring by the Cypriot police, and that all the full-time Serbs there fear whether they will be approached by a Cypriot policeman, whether they will charge them with some alleged crime. They don't hide that kind of list anymore, they don't hide that they're going to do it, they've brought this kind of platform that you're saying from the government that it actually means the end of any negotiations, that it's not really a peace platform, that it's rather a war platform than it can guarantee peace, and really that turning another cheek doesn't make any sense anymore. By the way, you gentlemen from the government of the Republic of Serbia and you from the congregation majority, engage, pressure Alexander Vukic to convene a session of the National Assembly in which Serbia will give up its way to the European Union. That's more nonsense, it's actually a great danger to the state of Serbia and to all the people who live in Serbia. Finally, to openly ask Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin to ask the Russian Federation to engage seriously in solving our big problem and to help us preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty, to help us preserve the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia within the borders of the Constitution. I know this has nothing to do with the Law on Plant Protection, but since you in this law have provided for this obligation to the European Union, this simply has to be said, we don't trust the European Union, or when it comes to plant protection, and here we fear what they're setting us up, what they're sending us, what they're buying. So, nothing about the European Union, of course, I don't mean the countries of the country individually, but I mean that monster organization that sucks blood, which is the tomb of small nations, which you keep wanting to go to, so I listen to one minister, then the other minister, and then the fifth minister, all open, close, some chapters, and when you ask them, "Mrs. and ladies ministers, do you know that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are in a steel ring, that they fear when arrests will start," you, of course, don't pay attention to that, you say, "We have plotted the way". It's not a path that's godly that has to go that way, on the contrary, that road has to be interrupted immediately, tomorrow may already be late and I hope you're aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52149	The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to take advantage of, fellow MPs, at first to apologize for a little delay. I was in Aryl where the stone was laid as the basis for the construction of a raspberries processing plant, and for this reason I was not there for the first half hour of the debate. It is an investment of two partners, a Serbian and Hungarian partners, who are assisted by the Hungarian and Serbian governments, where they will be processed in the first year of 5,000 tonnes of raspberries, the second and third classes, which is the most problematic because they cannot be sold, and in the third year up to 12,000 tonnes. Let me remind you that Serbia's annual production is somewhere between 90 and 100 thousand tonnes of raspberries, so one week of raspberries should be processed here. Let's get back to the subject. Last week, as I recall, we had a very good discussion about the amendment and addition of the Law on Plant Protection, where I said several times, in this context where you spoke, that there was no simple takeover of the solutions that existed in the European Union and that for 600 preparations of these amendments to the law, 600 domestic Serb plant protection funds, in this way made it possible for them to live forever until the moment of entry into the European Union, and not that, as one predicted by the 2009 law, they could no longer be used. I think it is completely absurd and several of your colleagues agreed that this is the first time that it is clearly said in this way that Serbia protects its producers and those preparations that are of Serbian origin and that it allows them to exist in the system, because they have a completely correct status, but on the other hand, we have to strive for the markets that we want to place our goods on in time to accept not only the European Union, but also the Eurasian Union, the Turkish market or some fourth or fifth market. For information alone, negotiations are being held today with the Euro-Asian Union Mixed Committee where Serbia's agriculture should receive another broader diapazon of goods that, without customs, can be exported to the Euro-Asian Union space. So now we have a large portion of the goods that are covered but with these negotiations that are supposed to end tomorrow, we should as a state get the possibility of exporting even greater quantities of cheese, unlimited exports of fruit brandy, so all that came from Serbian agricultural primary products, sheep, goat cheese, duty-free exports. We have one more thing that we have fought for that should be verified during today, it is that in the case of market disturbances and that goods passing from the direction, since this is a two-sided agreement, it is not only an agreement that we export to someone, to them, but if imports of goods originating in these areas, that we have protective mechanisms, that we can introduce any advances if these goods are of lower value so that they do not sink Serbian agriculture. That's the tool that one of the gentlemen who negotiated with the EU in 2008, 2009 or what year he had never used it in the right way, so when there's a price disturbance on the market, he'll always be on our backs. Once again, to underline these amendments and additions to the Law on Plant Protection, we protected Serbian producers and allowed them until the moment of their entry into the EU, to uninterruptedly exist on the Serbian scene in the aspect of which this part of social life belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52151	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52152	You've learned a lesson, Mr. Minister, since 2000, when you were part of the system when this law was passed, which is no good now, and you've explained to the MPs in a very advanced way why you were late today, we didn't mind, because for us every government official is adequate because we've said it several times, I guess behind this proposal is the government, not anyone personally and individually. Then you boasted that you laid the foundation stone in Ariel for the processing of raspberries and that's nice, of course we don't mind and God forbid there's as many of those factories as possible, but were there people at the opening? Any. Did they ask you since there's going to be raspberries this year, if it's worth it to them to process them at all? And what did you say? Do you have an answer? You don't, of course, like you never have when the raspberries problem comes up on the agenda. You say, this law is passed because of the market and then is said both the EU and Turkey, etc. So that's how you actually said what we're talking about. Because of the market, yes, but not because of the market under some strict EU regulations and EU markets. Why can't there be a market, if it can be with Turkey, why can't it be with Germany? What does it have to do with Germany as an EU member? Of course not. But to remind you ministers that Serbia has had a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation for many years, and you know well that in Serbia, as far as agricultural products are concerned, it cannot be produced as much as it can be exported there. But, you know, it's a condition not to be anyone at the time of Rasim Ljajic that, instead of pigmeat, the Russians are being deceived by pig skins, instead of Serbian apples being sent to Polish apples, to send some pears from the re-exports instead of our pears. So, the Russians have to be seriously traded and they're enough market for us and you know it well. In fact, you are alone when all that you said in response to my debate actually suggests that you are also clear that we do not need the EU in this business, as we do not need the EU at all. The European Union is evil. You yourself have explained that we can deal with plant protection, provide them, apply them, do it with individual countries and, of course, with the Russian Federation as basic because you're looking for, we operate and lose 210m euros a year, more than 200 million a year, and we have a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation, which no government wants to use so far. That's what's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52153	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52154	Mr. Minister, in the context of what you just said, and it is related to domestic plant protection products, I may not sound modest when I say that one of those producers who is and how well known in the wider market is from Kragujevac. Now I have to remind you, Branko Ruzic came out and I'm sure in 2002 he was a folk MP, when we Serbian radicals wanted to treat this through the adoption of a law that was funny to all the dosmans who later destroyed Serbia, robbed, systematically destroyed peasants and warlords and fruit farmers. It's the Sorghum Prevention Act. Do you remember that, Mr. Nedimovic? So that was the proposal, the official proposal of the Syracuse Act, the wild cheese of SRS MPs 17 years ago. We had in mind then that it was a disease that attacked, above all, huge possessions in Vojvodina. Now as a farmer's layman again, someone who has contact with his and his friends and relatives in the country, I can freely say that, Arsic certainly remembers it, is something that can sow by 75%. New technologies, new weather, new climate change, all of which will, of course, also affect fruit, is that right, Mr. Risticevic, and wartime production because today you can't predict what can happen. You yourself said when two years ago the laws on rural development and incentives in agriculture, that it is necessary that such situations be warned too, let God not give disease from the country, yet a peasant should keep looking at the sky, and today Serbia is not in many parts of its beautiful, therefore our beautiful country, solved the problem of a sudden and destructive city that destroys so many crops. That is why it is best that, in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if you are willing to help me, you are going to make an amendment and a supplement or a new proposal for a law on promotions in agriculture, because I was watching and I am interested in it, so I follow and in the end always asks me one of my relatives – do you know if there is anything we could get, that we could start working, especially these young people. This competition with regard to plantings of vineyards, fruit and hops, which is being renewed every year, I think it is always current by the end of May, I have carefully looked, it contains plantations, land preparation, slaughter, or the fruit-back, but it does not contain this protective plant that we are now discussing here. I will certainly welcome you in this competition as a promoter to force what was produced at the Cachanic Institute for Fruiting, at the Institute of Smederjevska Palanca, when it comes to some crop culture or at the Institute for steep grains as far as grains are concerned. So you have to make it clear when you're going to pay attention to these things and help an ordinary man without it and ask for these subsidies have the opportunity to get it cheaply, or more favourably, and on the other hand, be free of all these taxes that burden one average agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52155	The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52156	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members, I would just like to say a few things in the context of the previous debate. Yes, we are preparing to amend the Encouragement Act, in agriculture, for one simple reason, because everything changes except stones. You have to adapt to life and that. Well, it cracks well sooner or later. I want to say one other thing, life carries some new things and you have to always put on some new incentives, and on the other hand, you get over it and you don't need to help anymore. But what's a big problem, can be linked to this topic of plant protection, is Serbia's space, you see east there, and you start from Zaječar to Negotin, you go towards Kladov, you have one situation where even plant protection in some areas doesn't help. Of the five parcels, not that one is not working, but four are not working, and then we have a situation where the man who works is at risk because certain harmful organisms are developing on these parcels that are not being processed at all. It's the consequence of either leaving the population, or some other stuff. We now have to step forward and it will be painful things, painful topics, when you come into a situation that you have to deal with agricultural land, not only those that are in state property, but agricultural land that is in private property, which is not the subject of processing, which has become a latent problem for everything around it. Well, when you go to Cereals, you have orchards there, new trees for now, but you have old so far that no one has seen, 15 years has entered them. These are all the sources of the disease. Here, now we have one situation, people who are from the parish, they know it's 2003. - In 2004, she was there, so-called “Golden yellow” disease on the vine line, so there had to be mass extraction of chocolate, and then replanting, the state helped. Now on the other hand, we have this situation back on the southern slopes of Fruska Gore, it happens for different reasons, not to enter into the structure of all this. But sometimes it can happen that you have to apply measures that you didn't even know existed two years ago. Here, for example, what happened two, three years ago, is related to the disease of "clumb skin" in cattle, so what happens now to "African plague" pigs, these are all diseases that don't know our space. To come back, this story is about Ariel, and I'm not bragging about anything, nor is it my intention. You can ask your party colleagues who were there and who I talked to. What did they tell me? They told me to say hello to you and they said this way, they didn't send raspberries, they said that in June of the month, but there's one thing, what I wanted to say at the end, people have to always talk to each other, and when things are tough and when they're good topics. You shouldn't run away from it, especially from this difficult topic, such as raspberries and crises we have in the last two years, due to increased supply and reduced demand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52157	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52158	Mr. Minister, you don't have to go on the amendment and the addition, but a whole new law to do, that in this part when we talked about previous laws, we've made a lot of remarks, in the way that so far we've been given incentives and we've talked about a segment of organic production, so here I am now going to connect the raspberries. If you were already there, and if at this point you don't know what the ransom price would be, and it should be at least 160 to 180 dinars per kilo of raspberries, then you should have promoted and a way to earn more than they can get, so the people of the revolt cut those plantations, many of them were completely depressed, because they and their children and all their family members were expecting a lot, and they got nothing that nobody wanted to come and read, that they couldn't save that fruit, that's Serbian red gold. On the other hand, if you have a program and incentives for organic raspberries production, then you can certainly say that the price of such raspberries is guaranteed at least 500 dinars and that it has its own market. It's the same for strawberry, it's the same for other products. So, go out and look at all these spenders in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, many of them we've counted for you when you're making the budget for this year, and the agencies of the abnormal, non-governmental organisations, so put all of this into incentives for agricultural production and especially with a special programme, for organic production, so that people know that in the future they will have security for themselves and for their children and stay on that land. If you hadn't wondered, since you're traveling, just like us, you only said part of why. Well, because all that's left is a nursing home and he no longer has a tractor or a haircut and he can't get out of the house, he's just not capable anymore. It can still be seen in Vojvodina on average that it is a little more favourable, and the deeper you go, and this morning I talked about it, and the Pcinski and Pirotski district, you have two municipalities in southern Serbia, which have more than 50 percent of the total land of unprocessed land. Who's to blame for that? And even those vermin after October 5th, these dominoes that have destroyed everything, but then tell me how that will and when Serbia will flourish. You promised it would be when it joined the EU. No, it's a lie and a deception, but only when you focus on raising every inch of our country, saving every oran, every orchard, and making sure that tomorrow someone stays here and lives out of their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52159	Right on line, Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52160	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'll just take a moment. Yeah, you're absolutely right about diversifying production as to conventional ways of growing raspberries. Yes, it's an organic raspberries that is at this point a fresh raspberries, which has a much better price, with fresh raspberries, we need a different processing technology. And in organic raspberries, we don't need anything big, for one simple reason, because mostly our plantations are at higher altitudes, and we just need to convert that bureaucratic transformation, from conventional production to organic. For that reason, we are now, and you will be faced with changes to the organic production law, which is exactly what they need to bring, because that's what the market is looking for, that's what the product is looking for, and I hope you will support that, because I think it's going to make a lot of sense. To get back to one other thing, you just mentioned the EU, and the market. Yes, the fact is, Serbia exports 70 per cent of its agricultural products to the EU. But don't forget, it was mentioned earlier that export potentials for Russia are not being used. So 200 million dollars of fruit is being exported to the EU at this time. We have a trend in growth, now exporting vegetables to Russia. So they're much better indicators than 6.7 years ago. Why didn't someone use that 10 years ago? Well, I don't know, you have to ask them, and I hope you don't get a chance to ask them this kind of communication, because they won't be able to sit in places and be asked. There's one more thing. You might be able to ask them in the halls, maybe there's a more intense debate going on there, and I'm not alluding anything to you, to you, to you, to sit in the hall and discuss this subject, but to those who probably sit in the halls, but that's why their tills aren't foreign. And it's not just a situation here, it's a situation by local parliaments, too. Nothing less, nothing more, not even there. But they come in here regularly for a couple, and it's no big deal, but I'm not getting into it. Everyone is right, the people see everything and know everything. To return to the Turkish market, last year met a quota for exports of beef with Turkey. Good price, jumped to 2.35. 2.45 a kilo and live vaginas of beef. As of April 1st, beef exports are moving back to Turkey, so now this vacuum is created, because people on the ground know, but who doesn't know how to tell him. That's why people are waiting now, that's why there's no demand, because it's waiting to start exporting beef to Turkey. We got a much larger quota for this year 2019, seven thousand tons, and I think we're going to go to eight, nine, only the question is do we have the capacity to process it? There is another important thing, a Turkish counterpart, the agriculture minister on April 4th, in this context, will be a guest in Serbia to discuss expanding these capacities. As of a month ago, Serbian sunflower oil could go in the direction of Turkey, and that was not, as I recall, a colleague, five, ten and fifteen years ago. I hope you heard me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52161	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52162	Mr. Minister, you are much more skilled than can be seen from these draft laws, and no wonder, you come from Srema where people are valuable and are serious about agricultural production. We in principle, here we have perhaps one-third of this proposal, which refers to amendments and additions to the Law on Plant Protection, the rest of you are explaining compliance with EU rules. Serbian radicals will always support the protection of the domestic producer of anything. That's not at all controversial. Well, that's our goal. (Zoran Despotovic: Well, and rocks. () Yes, a colleague of Despotovic says - including stones. Of course, it can be made, no less attractive than the big one, etc. I ask you a question – have you thought about why you met there somewhere around Zaječar, or where you said, abandoned orchards? Among other things, the uncertainty and production and the ransom price. That's what happens to us at the raspberries. Notice whether it is production between 90 and 100 thousand tons, because there is little reexort. Lately, the offering by one profession, or the raspberries may have been half as small as it was at some point earlier. Ariel's adventurous and at the height of the offering right now, but because they're a little more serious about the team. Look. That's why we have some sanctions and consequences for not doing this job seriously. Do you remember, you were a people's messenger at the time, when in Žitoraj the cherry picker asked for the first morning when he came to the plantation to pay off his living room, and then he went to read. For what? Because the plantation owner couldn't get as much as he needed to pay the workers in the evening when he handed over his cherry. There's a lot you need to do on that plan. That's where I came to the conclusion that you're looking at these things a lot more rationally than you're suggesting to us through these legal proposals. Some things now need to be regulated by the law, some things we won't have to. It's just what happens in practice. Looks like you've opened your mouth just like that, so you can say it again in the jargon of some fish, when you're told of these funds, in front of the EU's accession. In agriculture, you know it much better than I do. There's a lot of mechanics. There's a lot of local self-government mechanics, so you know how many out of the budget. Sometimes they don't share what they predicted with their budgets to agricultural producers that much. Five hundred thousand to one million, that's small. Try to give it more where it's serious. Where progress has already been made in the area of agricultural production, you as a ministry in accordance with the budget law should speed up these local self-governments, or agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52163	The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I forgot to mention one thing, which I see already in several exhibitions stretches. It's a question of re-export. A very important topic, first of all, for the safety of the market. This is most often brought into the context of a free trade agreement that we have with the Euro-Asian Union. It is fully expected, if that expression could be used, that when you have a situation that EU exports to Russia are banned and vice versa in different products, that mixing can occur. For years, whether it wasn't seen, or if I didn't know what it was anymore, it wasn't interested. But we, in the last few months together with the M.E.P., the customs tax administration and our ministry, first of all, have been working to control the plant protection system. We had a major arrest operation on October 4th, when it was attempted to abuse, i.e. to display Greek peaches as Serbian peaches and some peaches to tell you rightly which I have not seen in my life in Serbia, some flat. Those aren't in Serbia. Irons, to irons. There may be ten trees, but I haven't heard that there can be 50 tons on ten trees. If it can be, but it's his faith. A few days ago, we had apples again. Fifty more, sixty faces in the whole action. What I'm saying is, then I'm often called media representatives and they say if these arrests are going to compromise the trade agreement. I'm just left to cross over. These arrests are the defense of the agreement and the refusal of anyone to try to abuse such things. That's what we're gonna do. To relate to your findings. Yes, there are local self-governments that are much better and much more resource-oriented towards agriculture. That there are those who are trying to abuse subsidies. These days I have given the order to control all tractors, all the machinery and all the irrigation systems in the last three that have been given subsidies, to carry out field controls, to see if it is there, and not to be subsidies just to yell – give subsidies. If someone broke their contract, if we could deprive the Director and Director of the Agrarian Payments Administration of abuse, then we can also use those users who are trying to abuse that subsidy. I guarantee you we'll find one of those. Someone thinks they can play with it. Maybe it could have happened sometime. I'm not saying that we're going to finish this job, we're going to try to finish it all the way, but there's a need for consciousness, as well as for re-exports that can lose the status of the wicked. Never forget that an apple in the EU costs 20 euros a cent, 25 euros a cent, and when we sell it in Russia we get 50, 55 and 60 euros a cent, is it a small difference? Three times. The same thing is about these subsidies. I'm just warning, this isn't an appeal to those who have abused, I tell them for the public, don't play with these things. Not only will they be pushed into passive status, so all of this will be charged, but much worse, especially because of these Serbian farmers, Serbian hosts who need assistance and the necessary subsidies. What Mr. Marijan Risticevic said last week, I didn't hear anything in math, and we all went to school, that 180 is more than 350m euros. (Verica Radeta: It's not the euro, it's the euro. It's Europe, not Europe. Evre, I'm sorry. Maybe I have no idea. I'm sorry. Okay, euro, let's make it euro. But 180m euros were subsidies ten years ago, and now they're 350. You can judge for yourself what's more and what's less and when it's more invested in agriculture and when it's less.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52165	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the raspberries here are often mentioned for public reasons and for the sake of the truth. In the last five, six years, we've doubled the surface under the raspberries. We made our own chili, increased our offer, and the demand remained the same. So with apples, something like this happens. In order to avoid the expansion of farmers, it was necessary for processing and storage facilities to belong to farmers such as Denmark and the Netherlands. On my proposal in 2001, Mr. Vlahovic said it was impossible. The state has repeatedly tried to raise a cooperative. I think it'll do it more effectively in the future than it does at the moment. We should do what the Danes do. If farmers are owners of storage facilities and processing facilities, then they can't be exploited, because the processor always looks to buy as cheap as possible, and the farmer looks to sell as expensive as possible. If farmers are owners of certain processing facilities, they will set a price for themselves and in this case there will be no roadblocks or insistence that the state assumes the role of the buyer. So we did it in the Chances. At the time, farmers were given a refrigerator with 10,000 tons of raspberries. Management didn't experience it as their property and the peasants sold that freezer and now they have a problem with raspberries in Ariel and Ivanjica. At the same time, Slancaman got one of the coolers. People have done quite differently and act as if their freezer is their own, despite that one, they have made another cooler in Slankamen, which is the property of cooperatives, and therefore they have less problems with prices. I must also warn that in Russia, huge areas are rising under apples and that we may have a problem with placements in the coming years. So my advice to farmers is to try, no matter how complicated it is, to plant a pear, because it will go both domestic and surrounding markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52167	Thank you. Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52168	Mr. Minister, when I said meshetars, I didn't just mean those who import other people's goods, so they tried to sell it as ours, but I thought about the distribution of funds coming to Serbia from the EU, as well as those that are being deployed, or subsidized by local self-government agricultural producers. They're, of course, much less. It is also true that what counterpart Risticevic says, that perhaps the surfaces under the plantations of the raspberries have doubled compared to an earlier period or slightly smaller, but you know what that is about? When you say you're traveling through Serbia, so you'd notice that profession, that state couldn't intervene in such a way as to tell someone -- not this year you're going to be doing that agricultural production. It's a little ungrateful and impossible, but it can be expert advice. They can have agricultural services, almost all local self-governments have them, they have these regional ones, they can recommend them, but when you, as the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, say and stand behind something more serious, but there should be an analysis of what will go through. We can have a pear, too, so we can get high very quickly, the question is the day, as we have a situation with the raspberries. We missed the opportunity to privatise these processing facilities in the area of food production when agricultural producers, should have made such a variant, could perhaps be co-owners of these processing facilities and then certainly wouldn't have come to this. And now these problems can be solved, of course, by this three-way combination where employees, where perhaps local self-government and primary producers of agricultural products would be the owners of it and then the agricultural product would be taken care of, that agricultural culture to the very end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52169	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52170	Mr. Minister, that's what you said about the apple perfectly and you gave the price range exactly. Here, by chance, in the ranks of Serbian radicals is one even our chairman of the municipal committee in Topoli, Shumadia, who has been successfully exporting apples for years, but is making Serbian forest apples into a large Russian market for his famous buyer. But now there's a problem why we don't have 20 more directions for the raspberries or 50 times more and pears and apples when we can absolutely take everything out to a wide Russian market? Did the Russians say, "We only need a ton of raspberries or apples and we won't anymore?" No, they didn't say, because only one submersible area can buy food or, behold, the central market in Moscow as far as Serbia can produce and then there's no problem. I actually answered the line before the presentation of my colleagues, Sreta Perić, but he elaborated it well and said - the problem is in the processing industry. We persistent Serbian radicals, as the biggest and only serious and true opposition, are telling you -- that must be invested. A peasant can't let himself be alone and think and look into the sky and what's going to happen. Neither are those people, you know, who would have been a lingon, ping-pong balls, so we say to them, "Now you will be there in Ivanjica, in Arile to plant potatoes, and then you will have raspberries, and in five years your children will be dealing with something else." No, it has to be permanent production. You know, it's normal... Put your... Here, you were there and they probably asked you. Well, put yourself in those people's shoes. He'll think and say – wait, how is it possible that in Russia, a kilo of frozen raspberries in a 900 dinar retailer, and now I have to give it here under any price. You know, if the state invests in this and helps these people, nothing, believe me, and you get rid of those from the EU, nothing will be a problem for us to sell in the big market of Russia that wants food from Serbia, and that all of this that's been happening to many of us, and that's, above all, the fault of this one that can't appear, Rasim Ljajic, the minister of trade, who, without great sanctions, has let it spread, that I don't now name them, you know, some of them from your neighborhood, are doing what they want to do, and to embarrass the state by repacking the halves and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52171	Right to the replica of Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52172	Dear Mr. Chairman, here we have just reached the key to agriculture. It's not just enough to produce, because in many areas of agricultural production, we've reached the world's maximum in warfare and fruit growing. It's no stranger to us to have 15 tons of corn per hectare, but we're no stranger to having 80-90 tons of apples per hectare. It's nothing foreign. These are all the things that Serbia can and the Serbian farmer can do, but we have another kind of problem – that goods must be sold by someone, and it can be sold in two ways. Either sell it as a raw material by taking it to a market or you can process it. There's no better way than processing. The best way to make more money is to process the same stuff, and that's where we go back to the source of the problem. There is almost no type of industry in Serbia after 2000, which is more devastated than the food industry. The question can be asked why is that. One answer is certain that many monopolies could form after 2000 through the rits and allow for those famous... There are many of you here who remember that period. That is January 2000, and the liberalisation of the market, when overnight complete Serbia flooded goods from all over the world with no protection for the Serbian food industry. Remember that the Serbian food industry at the time was dimensional for a market of 20-22 million inhabitants. All capacities were thus adjusted both storage capacity and energy capacity. It's not the same to burn down a factory to produce a hundred tons of something and a thousand tons of something. Production costs are incomparably higher when you produce 100 tons of something, because they are fixed costs. They're the same. That's why there's been a collapse. On the other hand, there is no better industry that rejects a greater surplus than the food industry. You've got raw materials all around you, you just need to process it. There's one problem in the food industry, and that's probably the key to all the solutions. It's a new technology and accepting the standard of the market that you want to deliver your goods to. If those two things synchronize, you can win. There was a debate about the amendments just now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52173	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52174	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52175	Now I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52176	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Laws on Biosafety Funds – was submitted by National MP Nikola Savic to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on plant protection products. This amendment of mine is in line with the SRS' position towards the EU. We continue to warn you that it is not good that everything that comes from the EU, that many of what you are proposing here and adopting Serbia and the Serbian people have damages, and that is how it is confirmed by the president of the state and the president of your party, the ruling party, and I mean right in your place in Sremska Mitrovica, Mr Minister, when he finally admitted to the citizens that the EU is one delusion and one illusion. If you care so much about this EU, so let's do what the Bulgarians, Romanians did once, when they adopted all those European laws without translation into English, voted it out and ended it. But to get back to the specifics of the amendment. Of course, it's clear to all of us that modern agricultural production is not possible without plant protection, but there's one other thing here in the law that no one in the government has talked about, and we know that the contributions made by treating these funds are not possible without some harmful consequences. Here perhaps the most important thing is that this law should have seen the consequences of these plant protection products, because it's simply impossible if you take them from one side somewhere, you have to return them somewhere and add them. But here I see that there was no such thing as the application of this law, in addition to all the positive things, will also have negative consequences, and these are primarily consequences for the health of the population that always appear and feel later.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52178	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic. Sign up again. I shut you down while you were looking for papers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52179	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to improve human and animal health and in order for life to be at an envious level, the state must take care of the excessive use of plant protection funds and must pass an adequate law that is in the interests of the citizens of our country, not only to prescribe from the EU, in order not to be a priority for trade, but for our health and for our future generations. The basic thing in which the state has to maximise all available resources is to prevent the uncontrolled use of chemical and other harmful substances that have a negative impact on human and animal health above all. The use of herbicides and pesticides in agriculture is over-represented for reasons of obtaining a profit from importers while at least considering the withdrawal of food and its use. The use of vaccines for animals where they are suspected of the quality and origin of these vaccines must then be taken into account, since immunity and death often occur. Another very important phenomenon is the use of antibiotics sold and uncontrollably used. Article 23 says: the professional user certificate is issued by a person who is trained for safe use of handling, storage, transport and disposal of plant protection products. All is well written, but the end-user is a agricultural producer, who primarily uses these assets with superficial instructions and protection. The packaging that also contains residues of toxic substances is thrown into rivers, fields and meadows. That's how delay pollutes the entire human environment. We therefore propose to include both the Ministry and local self-government, to include as much training as possible in advisory bodies that will educate citizens how and how to use chemical resources to protect agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52180	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52181	Thank you. This amendment, which was the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 31 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Protection. In Article 31, the Proposer wishes to amend Article 79 of the basic law, which defines the criminal provisions for the offence committed by the legal person and the person responsible in the legal person. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing to amend the minimum amount of penalties provided for by this amendment by making the amount instead of 700,000 dinars a million dinars. The maximum estimated fine of three million dinars remains unchanged. The works defined as an economic offence in Article 79 of the basic law on plant protection products are also serious and we believe that even the minimum amount of the penalties provided for should be increased in order to prevent economic operators from staying away from the work they have done. In order to make it more clear to Serbian citizens why we are proposing an increase in fines, I will only list some of the acts that make up the economic offense. Transport and change of plant protection products which are not registered in accordance with this law, i.e. the opposite of the authorisation decision, the placing on the market and the change of the preparation, or the aid for plant protection which is not registered under this law, the examination of unregistered plant protection products without a solution for the authorisation for research and development, the placing on the market of plant protection products which have expired, the application of plant protection products against the prohibition of use, the application of plant protection products toxic to bees and other parts which, due to the short time for the interpretation of the amendment, cannot and am not in a situation to state everything and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52182	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Law You have received amendments, which were submitted by the MPs of the SRS on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52183	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth in a series of laws that are directly in the jurisdiction and portfolio of Minister Nedimovic. And now, in a way, I'm going to round up the story, in principle, actually fundamentally our objections to all these billings. First, both this and these bill proposals, like so many of us here, are just amendments and additions to existing laws, and our principled view is that it's never good. If you want to seriously standard some matter, then you have to make a bill of law from the beginning, and it's easier to do and easier to apply. Every time they change and supplement, there's something left that doesn't cover these changes and additions, and then again we have changes and additions of changes and additions, and then it creates impressions and indifferences, and quite legal uncertainty. So I recommend, Minister, since you have already announced some proposals here for Parliament, you see that in your service, you are proposing comprehensive laws. Of course, why are you doing this? Because sometimes you're in a hurry, and then you have to go back-to-back to change one or two members, just to meet the criteria that you're asked to do, and then ignore the essential part of the law and matter that certain laws treat. It is, in fact, our second principled objection, the harmonisation of the bill, and then the law with EU regulations. We have been telling you for years that this is a bad approach, that we need to pass laws that are suitable for our country, our mentality, our people, our living conditions. No, there are certain provisions, some principles that can be applied everywhere, but there are certain specificities that must be applied in a particular country. In that sense, even if we accepted your position that the European path to Serbia is good, this way of passing the law would not be good. Of course, we don't accept that so-called. European way. We've said more than once today that it's high time that when I say it's high time, then we really don't have a moment to wait any longer. Serbia must give up its way into the EU. Serbia must turn to its friends. What's happening in Kosovo and Metohija with Serbs is something that's creeping every normal man. It is easy to sit in Belgrade, it is easy to sit in the National Assembly, in the government, and to walk around Belgrade or another city that is not in that iron ring containing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. We have to take care not only of the conference, let's say - we won't leave you out of it, we'll take care of you, let's show you that we care. You should know, and I suppose most of you know, that the only way to preserve Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, to preserve our constitutional order, sovereignty and territorial integrity, these two expressions that, unfortunately, are less and less often heard from the representatives of the government, is to give up our European path, to ask the Russian Federation, to ask Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, to join the alliance with Russia, to join the ODKB and thus preserve our country, to restore dignity to both the state and the people. What happens in KIM, as dangerous as life is, as dangerous as territorial integrity is, it's really humiliating that the blades can do whatever they want because those you call friends are actually our enemies, and their sincere friends are working in their interest, not in our interest, not in the interest of justice and justice. With that, indeed, it must definitely end. Give at least once a bill where you will not appeal to the EU, to align with the EU. Once you bring, here, you suggest, ministers, a law that will be in the interest of the raspberries, in the interest of the producer of milk, meat, those living in Serbia, in the interest of the agricultural production you were talking about, the food production you were talking about. It all sounds nice, you talk nice, but then the SAA comes, and then the apples in Serbia are more expensive than the ones you import, because you import their scissors without paying customs and thus, among other things, you endanger a sprawl peasant. Our next complaint regarding the bill's proposals, now I'm talking about these laws, Mr. Nedimovic, but they refer more or less to everything, shows through these proposals, i.e. through the review of the amendments, the ruling majority shows how irrelevant the opposition's position is, and which, believe me, is not good. We as the largest opposition party in parliament, the SRS, and the general public sees this, we do this job very committed, very valuable and very serious. Our amendments, now that you don't have the hundreds of amendments anymore, and neither do we, you've forced us to, when we have amendments relating to every concrete law and you see for yourself that these amendments are indeed in order to improve the legal text, and tomorrow to implement the law. You know, we often warn you about it, it's not good when you adopt the government's proposal here, the majority of parliament adopts the law, we tell you in advance – people, you make inapplicable laws. You say -- no, that's not true, this is the best in the world. After 10 days, the minister goes on TV and says – you know, we have a problem, this law cannot be applied, but here we are preparing changes and additions for the Assembly. That's not good. That's why you should seriously have fun with these amendments, not doing back-to-back. You have plenty of time, you have services, and don't mock the MPs with your answers, which is why you don't accept our amendments. You often tell us that you do not accept our amendments because something better has been done in your proposal and because you think that such a solution is more appropriate. Imagine, where's the argument? You say against our arguments – more appropriate. Well, if that's an argument, then we say a more appropriate amendment. And where is this serious debate? Where are the arguments? They're gone. That is why, especially, here, we would like to draw attention to the Republic Secretariat of legislation. You are here when it comes to this particular amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, where I have invested on behalf of the SRS Group amendment to Article 1 and point 1), and this Article 1 refers to the basic Article 4, you know, like this when you're working changes, and now nobody knows what I'm talking about, you can barely walk me out, and everything from word to word I'm saying exactly. And then you tell us -- you can't accept our amendment because changes and supplements don't change point 1. It's a bill of law. Imagine how much that is, you're not a lawyer... I know it is. This is what I said the other day, Minister Ruzic. You're a lawyer, so he jumped. I'd like to ask if Dejan Djurdjevic is a lawyer, too. I know he is, just like you are. Dejan Djurdjevic is a doctor of science. He is the Director of the Secretariat for Legislative Affairs. I know him as an excellent lawyer from some other time. I don't even believe he broke down as an expert. How can you say that this Article 1 or Article 4 of the basic law does not change and that you cannot therefore consider and adopt our amendment? It's just not normal. It's true, according to our archaic Rules of Procedure, that you can't change a member that the government doesn't change, which is also out of your mind, but within one of the members that you're already changing and proposing changes, how can you say that we don't have the right to change a point, and you didn't remember to change it? So, this address of mine, I say, the last of your proposals is more in principle, more in principle and more warning that we should really, if you want to work seriously together to treat us like this and not make fun of what we're doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52184	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52185	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, first of all, I want to say this for the public, nor am I mocking anyone, moreover, with great respect always addressing every MP, respecting the Members who work, sitting here day and night, so that on this final part of your presentation I could only say that. The other thing I want to say is, yes, we're in a hurry to change and supplement the Law on Plant Health. I'll tell you a particular reason. It has nothing to do with the EU that is being talked about, but on the contrary, it has to do with the Russian Federation, it has to do with phytosertificates on the export of apples, nectarines and pears in order to fully round the system on the basis of the requirements of the Euro-Asian Union market. Dot.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52186	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52187	First of all, I tell you, it was nothing personal when I spoke about the relationship of ministers and government members to the National Assembly. We never avoid saying who this minister has good communication with the MPs. You were a MP, and maybe that's why he has such communication, you might know what he looks like, or you remember what he looks like when the minister doesn't pay attention to what he's told. This wasn't a personal remark. As for the fact that you're in a hurry with this law because of your relationship with the Russian Federation, God damn it. I am talking first about these four draft laws and you have highlighted each EU, EU, EU. Come on, hurry up with all the laws that would allow us to cooperate as quickly and as quickly as possible with the Russian Federation, and there you will also have some cooperation of the SRS and support because it would actually promote our policy. You have that agreement, or we have an agreement, which we have talked about, about the Russian Federation, use it, ministers, maximum for Serbia's sake, for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, and insist on the government, insist on the president of the state, you people's MPs also interrupt this path to the EU, destroy our country, destroy our people, we will be left without a part of the state if we stay on this road and watch as soon as this policy turns to politics towards the Russian Federation, as the ODKB, and finally this country and this people start living normally, to walk away, to get rid of fear, to get rid of the warrants, to get rid of the rings around parts of their country. What's going on is becoming unbearable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52188	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52189	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, back in 2009 during the rule of these yellow divisions, various multinational companies, which you know, even though you were not then in the government, have begun to pressure Serbia to adopt a more rigorous law on the protection and health of plants, allegedly to protect all goods that are later exported from this area to EU countries through stricter control. However, even then, as MPs of the main opposition party, we were against these laws for the simple reason that we consider it to be so in law-making segments, a colleague just now said to health, and did not make much of a mistake, protecting the health of plants. It's all connected, but it's not to the greatest benefit of Serbia. Since 2016, is it so, about this time a rule was introduced before the formation of this current government to control the border crossing by the phytosanitary inspection, is it so, for one part of the product of plant origin, and that the rest at its place of storage, then there has been a confusion among producers, so what now, and we are not really against the health of plants and those imported into Serbia and those exported under the highest degree of control. However, we are against all of this being done only because of the fact that certain IPARD projects are now being followed by the EU for agricultural production. You said this case was about the Russian Federation. If that's the case, if it's better control, then we can say hello. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, what does the Serbian Government do specifically and your ministry to preserve that plant health? When you say plants, now the citizens are looking at us in direct transmission, they have to bear in mind that there are agricultural plants about what is not agricultural herbs. Now that we want to start as a new topic, since we have managed to get out of you today, which would say you're going to come up with a proposal to amend the Organic Production Act, we think we need a new law and incentives in agricultural production, as the government now looks at the fact that there is a huge potential, which means that there are hundreds and maybe thousands of euros in this particular plant that is not agricultural, you understand what I'm saying, in the plantings as a culture, already in the areas of Serbia where we can, through the processing of medicinal plants, have, did you say, the processing industry, and here by processing that plant and how export potential. Why didn't you give more subsidies to some parts of Serbia in the area? I mean Zlatar, the Homolian part, the Homolian Mountains and all that is around Sokobanje, Rtnja, southern Serbia and all those potentials we have, and only some lonely examples that we can sometimes report on television or on one of the YouTube channels to see that someone started to do it successfully, to do it. If we focus on that and in this way, especially because we have rare plant species, which are not crops planted, but are located in fields across Serbia, in certain localities, there are some endemic species, then to mention the national parks of Fruska Gora, Tara and Kopalnik. It's a treasure we need to use as a land and give these people the incentive to deal with it and to benefit from it. Of course, it has to go through tight control, because everything that's sold and found in markets and elsewhere should be controlled by the inspection. Here, I'm finishing up, Mr. Marinkovic, since this is really a new topic, to give the Minister a chance if he wants to answer. In this sense, we should look at, as people say, our jobs, not to be conditioned by the European Union, which is only looking for a suitable market, looking for cheap raw materials and looking for cheap labour. And on the other hand, we haven't used what we have and what nature has given us and what can be used properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52190	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, three things I want to touch from my previous presentation. Let's go backwards, about organic agricultural production. The fact is that demand on the pay-performing markets for this kind of goods is getting bigger and bigger. The fact is, too, that our entire agricultural production, whether it's a vegetable or an animal, whatever's at a higher altitude, is absolutely this guy except he doesn't have the plague that it's organic, that he has that certificate. For that reason, we will enter into amendments to these regulations. But if I do not now prejudge here the final solutions, it will be my proposal to the government, and later on to Parliament, that organic agricultural production is one of the objectives, the essential goals that we will be dealing with in the future, because it is a demand for this commodity, which is expensive, but it is good for our producers, to turn into certain types of agricultural production. As for plant health, I'd like to look back on one thing, and it's about plant protection, and it's about training our agricultural producers. This law just predicted that in the next two or three years, through our organisational units, we do continuous training for these people, that they get certifications that they have mastered the way of use. Some of your colleagues are right to say that 15 years ago, it just broke the dam and went through a bunch of protective means, these or those, without adequate education of people as they were ever used. Any medicine used in an inadequate way may eventually become a serious problem and may constitute a means of endangering life. It's the same with the plant. It's the same thing about animals when it comes to drugs that are intended for them. One thing I want to say about amending the Food Safety Act, although we have absorbed it, but in terms of turning to a small agricultural producer, is this provision that is proposed in the amendments to the law regarding the adoption of specific rules for small agricultural producers involved in the processing. As far as the goods of animal origin are concerned, we've regulated this area for the goods of plant origin. We have now created a normative change of space to regulate it. Now, it's a turning towards this small agricultural producer to make as much value as possible and to offer it in Serbia's space. The story of organic agricultural production is the story of the largest part towards markets that are more cost-effective. There are our consumers who are interested in Serbia's space for this. At this point, we have, the public works, about 16 to 17 thousand hectares that are in the system of organic agricultural production. We need it to be three or four times that. It's without money and no funds that the state is going to invest hard to make happen on its own. For this reason, I am also intended to propose a special chapter in the Encouragement Act that will refer to organic agricultural production. Now we have one situation that incentives for organic agricultural production are 40% increased compared to conventional production. It works, if you get 100 things per hectare, you get 140 for organics. That's not much of an incentive, given the means of protection you need to use, because you can't use chemical resources in organic agricultural production. There's got to be something else to think of. This year we had money, so we're for plant organic production, that amount of incentive is no longer 40% more than conventional production, but 120% more. But that's not enough. They must be treated in particular, in addition to the type of agricultural production, and in particular should insist on organic fruiting, organic vegetables and in the part of livestock production that can in this way, especially in areas where conventional livestock farming cannot develop. The state has money for it now. After years of carrying out financial discipline, there is more money, and therefore the conditions have matured. It can't be dawn before dawn. Maybe someone can, but if he gets a light before dawn, he's got to get home early.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52192	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52193	And for the laymen in agriculture, Mr. Minister, it is normal for pesticides who have any risks to human health, meaning that the plants that are to be used in animal nutrition are not allowed and never happened in Serbia, and before these laws, I think that in 1998 the law or regulation on the protection of plants has been passed, therefore, even in that Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so in 2009 and 2016, it is irrelevant, but in any case, in the whole period it has never been in Serbia, here, there is also Mr. Risticevic as a agricultural producer and for so many years perhaps advises others how to do and what to do, that because of the malfunctioning or because that pesticide had no EU rules, as they say – the maximum documentation, has happened to do some great damage. Because I think even older people, those who don't follow new technologies and live in the country, and those people who are now 60 and 70 are still working in fields and sitting, know how to use plant protection. This is, however, something that started to blow by the European Union even before, as far as 10 years ago, and then and later, when they asked for everything produced and exported to the European Union market, which is a much smaller percentage than it needs to be exported to the Russian Federation area, covered by a certificate that these products were treated with pesticides with maximum documentation. And in Serbia it doesn't have to be that way, because you know what's good and what's not. You've also mentioned how education is going to be done. First of all, Mr. Minister, is the introduction in this way a commitment to agricultural producers that if they come to us as an EU directive as in some countries in our environment, they will have to have a certificate? You know that they can't use certain means of plant protection without that certificate. That rule was passed to them, I think, in 2015, the first such law was passed in the Ustasha Croatian state to occupy the Republic of Serbia. Now you're sowing something there and you have to have, imagine, a certificate that you know how to use it. I'm finishing what you've introduced to have seasonal workers sign up on the Internet, so now on the Internet and the guest who comes into the country's household, after that, we're going to now just certification that wheat and corn should be protected, I really don't know how there was anything we ate, produced or exported from Serbia, if people didn't know they were doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52194	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I suppose, right on the line, Mr. Marian Risticevic. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the problem with plant protection and the problem with the Ministry of Finance. If you take the finished preparation, the tax is 10%, VAT is 10%. If you take the raw materials, the active matter, the tax is 20%. That regulation has been passed by those who walk down the hall. We finally have to change that rule once. I have not been able to convince the finance ministers that it is, but it is and should make an effort with the Ministry of Finance to make the same effort, because the message is bad. The message in plant protection, if the raw material is 20%, on active matter, and one preparation consists of active matter, liquids and bottles, and if the tax on finished products is 10% on imports, then the message is very bad. The message is better introduced than produced. So in that note, it's a shame for our employees, for our employees, for our domestic producers, by business. We also need to think about parallel means, to see what a parallel asset is, who has the right to produce it, or that these rights belong exclusively to a domestic producer, and not to an importer. That's what I think the problem with plant protection is. On organic food, I agree that we have a chance, but this certification, farmers need to know, last for three years and are very suitable mountain areas, because they are not treated with mineral fertilizer. So whoever thinks he's dealing with organic food next year should try to avoid the use of mineral fertilisers immediately this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52196	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52197	Thank you. I'd like to join my colleague Risticevic in the very thing he said. It's true, the previous period since 2000, so here we are a large number of companies that produced these chemicals that were our domestics, they were more quality, these companies don't work anymore, they don't work and what happens happens. Now we import some things that we don't know what they are and stick to the "better introduced," as Mr. Marian says, which for those of us living in southeastern Serbia, we live in a village and live in a village, is important that the nature that gave us that we must preserve. Otherwise, a large number of municipalities that are like my municipality have the possibility, as far as healthy production is concerned, we can use a lot of these medicinal plants from our territory and to participate instead of these chemicals, instead of those pesticides, and that's the possibility. We also have examples of good practice, for example, just before Minister Nedimovic said, we had close to 16,000 acres of organic processing. With us, from the community from which I come, we have manufacturers who have certificates, who produce, produce organic wheat, now organic apples are doing it and they've been doing it for a few years. They produce organic cheese, they will now produce some more of these products that are very high quality. We need to put more attention to this, as the minister says, and we need to adapt more of these sublegal acts, and normally the law that we need to agree to be good for these producers. By the way, the municipality from which I come has the Green Community certificate, which was obtained through the Exchange 3 project, which means we have a lot of such municipalities where we can do organic production. But, on the other hand, people have to make food to work, food to be good quality. There's a large number of our people who have stayed in our municipalities, they're just old people who are used to working, like they did for maybe 20.30 years. We're witnesses, now they're looking for someone when we want to do some organic production, that we now have to dig there, and after that, it's normally healthy production, and there's not some kind of chemical that's going to bother us. There are now not enough young people who have been there before when it was done. So let us turn to our tradition, but we must also respect something new, and these are new ways in the development of agriculture. Once again, Minister, I support you for a lot of things, because I think that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52198	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to hear that this is the first law that strictly does not apply to the EU, but is more of a focus on co-operation with the Russian Federation. In the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health, you have stated that the main reason for its adoption is to regulate the conduct of matters of public importance in the field of plant health and diagnostics of harmful organisms, which can not only threaten it, but to question the survival of a plant species. All of this can lead to economic and environmental consequences and create major problems for agriculture in the Republic of Serbia. One of the biggest problems in this area remains the lack of professional staff, i.e. The inspector of the phytosanitary profession. We heard last week in a debate in principle, you just said that the average age of the inspector of the phytosanitary profession is 57, 58 years. It's the data that speaks the most. The amendment I have made in front of the SRS concerns Article 15, which amends the preceding Article 28, which regulates the professional training programme of persons performing public-interest tasks and other professional tasks in the field of plant health. I asked for the removal of Article 1, because I believe that the existing legal solution is better and includes the program and the examination of the knowledge of phytosanitary inspectors and after professional training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52200	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52201	Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health. Each and every one of these authorities wants to conceal the fact that they bear full responsibility when it comes to the matter that is subject to this law. Today we are in a position to ensure that the measures taken by this government do not provide almost any guarantee that they will protect our plant world. You're telling yourself that so far there has been no adequate application of this law, due to insufficient number of sanitary inspectors to carry out phytosanitary checks and dispatch controls. It is known that about 50,000 shipments of this kind are being exported annually and that this number will be constantly increasing, which is certainly a good thing. We don't mind increasing the number of inspectors to the necessary number, but we know from experience that these and similar situations are used to host party personnel, which would certainly give the opposite effect. It is not just the goal of increasing the number of inspectors, the goal is to be people of the profession who will carry out the work properly. So I urge this government to find other ways to address this problem properly. There is always room in the budget where certain items can be fucked, and some of them are certainly a reduction in the number of government agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52202	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52203	These proposals are for a reason to open Chapter 12, and the opening of the Chapter aims to join the EU. Now that he listens and sees an ordinary citizen of Serbia, he has the impression that it is very good to get into the EU as soon as possible, especially when it comes to agriculture, because, my God, if we adopt all these standards, we will export extra food to the EU, or as some of the up-to-date ones represent, that there is growing and greater exports to the EU. But what is reality? The reality is completely opposite. No one else can have a healthy recession thinking that they believe that we're going to export extra tomatoes to France, so the French are throwing it away. That we would export extra potatoes to Germany, so the Germans would throw it away. That we will export extra grapes to the same French, or Italy, they have it in excess. What's the point? The key is to accept ISO standards, European standards, to open this market for European products. Here's a good thing that the minister first turns things around, doesn't carry any inerts or emotions, but puts something that's reality. What's reality? Our reality is everything we can produce, we can sell, on the Euro-Asian market, above all in the Russian Federation. What's on the other side? What is needed for agriculture, all resources, repromaterials, it is produced in Russia, it is produced, the truth is done, according to their standard, by GoST, not by ISO standards, but you can see that this Europe also developed accepts Russian products. Why? Because they're cheaper, because they're of the same quality, and we're just trying to get by the inert, carried by emotion at all costs to get into that EU. We here with amendments want to act as convincingly as possible to understand that we are turning to racía, not emotion. Racio says we should go where our goods can be placed, and we should go where we compete with our goods. We here suggest that sublegal acts be brought in within six months. The Ministry doesn't accept this. He doesn't accept it because he says it's enough for a year to propose sublegal acts. Why sublegal? Because they're just regulating what the minister was talking about. They regulate even more precisely, even more accurate relations with the market and imports of goods from the Russian Federation. We have a big problem here, that import lobby. We can be the victim of an import lobby that has already managed to destroy all producers in Serbia of artificial fertilizer, which has already brought many protective products producers to the brink, or to the brink of destruction. That's what the ministry has to do with sublaws, so we insist on cutting that deadline to six months. In sublaws, it is clearly defined to protect domestic producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52204	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE ACCOMMODATION LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandar Martinovic and SRS MPs on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52205	It's article 27. It is not the intention of diversifying this discussion and leaving the topic, but I really must draw your attention to Mr Marinkovic, that when you read who submitted the amendments, you must read who submitted the amendments. You say Aleksandar Martinovic and the MPs of the SRS. We don't have any amendments as a parliamentary group signed. These are all amendments to the SRS, these are all amendments to our parliamentary group, these are all views of the SRS, but you have to take the time to read individually. You didn't say, you could have told the SNS and the SRS, so to guess if it was Martinovic or someone else. So you simply know that we take care of these formalities and that we draw attention whenever there's a need for it, so without intent on nagging, folksally speaking, I'm simply asking you to read as it says in your synopsis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52206	Thank you. No problem, it can be understood that you're right and I'm right, but of course it's not hard for me, and in the next I'll read each name individually, it's no problem at all. Thank you for understanding. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52207	This law, proposed by the refugee ministry, Rasim Ljajic, is completely disastrous for several reasons. First of all, because of the fact that some of the solutions proposed in the area of hospitality are very bad for Serbian hosts, who together with the tourism sector participate in Serbia's economy by 6%. 70,000 people, men and women are employed in the area of tourism and hospitality, and more than 60% of them are qualified professionally from the area, more than 10% of them with high expertise. It is truly amazing that so long-awaited law, after so much time of determination and public debate, comes in this form. That's why we asked you to be a member of the 1st. The Household Act is deleted. I don't need to be particularly potent, and you will also see Mr. Nedimovic, that punishments and penalty notes in the description of the law are not the place, that is what certain chapters and provisions are for, and here a tap, and then penalties. Now there's a question that you probably don't have an answer for, because there's no finance minister. He would be the only one now competent that according to the items of the budget and his thinking on how to improve this area, because Rasim Ljajic is not capable of it and he will no longer be a minister in any government, we are absolutely sure of that, how to improve the business of hospitality, and to be in favour of these people. Aren't these figures big enough for you at the beginning of the discussion, first because of the fact that rarely the country with the expansion of tourism and hospitality in the area of food and drink transport has such high VAT. Countries that go towards developing the catering sector, so I guess you all go somewhere or you go in private, mostly have a VAT rate on those services from 5 to 10%, and it's here for hotel accommodation 10%, and these are related activities, and for caterers it's 20% for food and drink traffic. Then don't be surprised, and it really can't be justified, which in that area and how the gray economy flourishes, right? A little by little, so some facility is closed. This can't even justify the fact that they didn't comply with the existing legal standards, but think about how you will do as we propose and as the Association of Hosts of Serbia demands, to increase their productivity, so more people will be able to work. Here, if I don't go through the cities right now, it's really a little time, I'll take an example, since I hear a few comments from my colleagues, and here you are from Mitrovica, he from Novi Sad, only in Novi Sad last year, found more than four thousand mostly young people in tourism and a city marked this year as the capital of young Europe, which has so many cultural, ethnic, historical heritage and which is famous for the tradition of hospitality. After all, in the part that used to be Austro-Hungarian, and in this part where we were under the Turks for many years, right after the release from the Turks, here, the first pubs were neither in Belgrade nor in my native Kragujevac and in other cities. That's why tourists like to come, because of hospitality, because of the good food we have and campaigns that have been launched for years in this sense to show what it is, real Serbian domestic food has produced fruit. Now that these people have been profiled in these areas, tap, so much tax, or VAT, the inability to do so and to listen to them from the profession as they say. Yes, this law has passed some public debates, but these same people have told you that it is impossible for a tourist organisation, here, the town of Sremska Mitrovica that is doing its job well, and others, either having manifestations, or the city, or the city of Belgrade, or any city, now you should, here Požarevac, from where Arsic is concerned, to deal with the fact that funds from private accommodation are being paid to the municipalities, whether it is the issue of apartments, whether it is the issue of beds, which are categorized as a rural household. Please explain to me, here is Mrs. Radeta, who is for local self-government, which would be said, and for this area as a lawyer expert, here you are doing these jobs in local self-government, is one city supposed to be involved in renting buildings? Here, in this law here, it says very well that funds must be paid into account, that is, the budget of the municipality. Then enter into this amendment to the Law on the Budgetary System, do not force the city of Belgrade, the town of Pozarec, or Kragujevac, or any city in Serbia, any banj, which has its problems, therefore, development, acceptance of foreign guests, whether Sokobanja or any other city, to deal with a business that does not give them the possibility at all. Now you need to transfer those funds to the expense of paying off the funds that provided that tourist with that accommodation, which is absolutely impossible. Let them deal with these agencies that can't be travel organizers, but to be brokers in tourism, let them take their share of the percentage, not that you do it. Imagine now, if the city's inspection of Belgrade starts and who's going to do it anyway, Mr. Nedimovic? What is the number of inspectors who should now go around Belgrade, here around the Assembly, if some apartments are issued, as popularly said "stop by day" and now going to see if the light is turned on, is that real owner there? He knocks on the door, opens up a lady and says, "Good afternoon, I'm a relative of that owner. Is she going to go to the police here to Mother Jerosima, if it's near the Assembly or somewhere in Lermont and give evidence of whether she really came here? There must be really one normal and civilized way, as there is in normal countries to sort it out. He can't do it like this. The central population register can serve, but he can't handle it. So there must be a registration of that accommodation facility first and its categorization. You, if you are in charge of the Kopalnik, in Zlatibor, and you are going to freak out those people and tourists, so no one will go anywhere, if you knock on every apartment and door and say, "Well, you were there, did you sign up?" You've got to do it before that, here, that it's really a real register, like it isn't, to figure out who owns some real estate, who deals with it, whether it's going into it, not this way to scare people. So you didn't do anything by passing a law like this. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority. Many of you come from local self-government that has and how developed tourism activity. In the end, every city in Serbia is much nicer than many other cities and tourist centres. Now you should think about it and those people at the Treasury and local self-government, people who work in the local self-government budget, how they will pay money for those who are paid directly into the budget or through a tourist organisation. Tourist organizations, my people, have no opportunity at all to be independent, they're also direct budget users, they can't just spend money on their account and make contracts with those people who have these rooms or apartments to issue an ethno complex, etc. Don't play with that kind of thing, 'cause you're really gonna make a big deal out of it. If you do not listen urgently and enter into negotiations with the association of these people, and there are many catering facilities in Serbia, they say there are nearly 70,000, which is what those who do some smaller, bigger jobs mean that they are related to restaurants and accommodations, that you give them the opportunity to reduce that VAT rate, it will really be difficult for them to do business and hire new people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52208	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't agree on everything with a colleague who's discussed it before me. One of the reasons I can't agree is because the law still needs to fix this area. Someone may like it or not, but it's got to be fixed at last. Whether someone will pay the tax and how much the residence tax will be, it is a matter of local self-government and they decide in their decisions in local self-government units, we as a legislator only give them that possibility. But there is another problem, however, that it is also an action that, if it is not regulated by law other than financial damage, can cause damage to the lives and health of those users of these services. Then why is it strange that we want to finally settle it with the law and know exactly who can and under what conditions, etc. Now we can turn whatever we want, providing a tourist service is a performance, and every lobby has the right to represent its own interest, and even here in the Assembly, but if one holds a simple STR and pays certain taxes and taxes, why not someone who provides some tourist services? Explain to me what the difference is. What's the difference? I really don't see the difference. So whoever performs a certain activity has to pay certain fees and there is nothing questionable about it. Now, as I remember the Value Added Tax Act, when it comes to certain tourist services, the tax has been reduced to 10%. So there are only two rates in Serbia, a general rate that is 20% and a lower rate that is 10%, has no third rate and should not be, because we don't have a system that could wash out more than two feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52210	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to replica has Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52211	Mr. Arsic, you've only answered the mention of the Fireman, and if you've read these members of the law that I've been making here, it's likely that the answer would be different. So, the thing is that there are 20% and 10%, 10% is for hotel accommodations, categorized accommodations, and I'm talking to you about the request of the host and their largest association in Serbia to cut this food and drink rate, which is a matter of thinking of Cynthia Mali, not of you. You may be something in some constellation of strength, I don't know, but really don't mess with the concepts. None of us have said, nor do I, that this law should be passed. In the end, we have this law, it's now like a new one, but it's changed, to the harm of these people that I've potentiated. But since you may not have paid attention, therefore, I have told you that the Law on the Budgetary System, at least since you have been in this progressive majority, you as Veroljub Arsic, praise both the budget and the Budgetary System Act. Why, then, do you want to tear down the provisions of the Budgetary System Act and oblige local tourism organisations to deal with private accommodation mediation, when it is neither in their jurisdiction nor in the founding act for tourism organisations, nor in the business of local self-government? That's something I'm looking for an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52212	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Please, according to the amendment, you're right. Here you go. 31/1JJ/VZ16. 15 - 16.25
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52213	According to the amendment, counterpart Marinkovic, because the minister has the right to propose laws under his jurisdiction, and the MP has the right to propose a law under any jurisdiction. First, that we understand each other and no one can stop me from writing a law out of any jurisdiction, or even the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, a bill of law. So, first of all, let's get this straight, so I've been, since I became an MP, defending dignity and the National Assembly and the MPs and always, emotionally reacting, when someone's trying to break it, to make some kind of political story. Now, when we keep mentioning some particular activity, we cannot by law, define the law so that in the same action certain economic operators have a more favourable position than others. You know what, here's what I agree with is reducing the tax rate, as the hosts in Serbia demand. Here's what we'll do when the price of the service stays the same and stays the same. It'll stay the same, be sure, because look at one of the most common calculations. Well, look at one of the most common calculations, and then figure out what the accumulation is in the finished product that is sold through one service, and what is the price of raw materials, labor, energy and everything else. Three, four to one. You obviously won't understand, let's say... Instead of throwing, it seems to me that you haven't been to the store for a long time, and you don't know how much one kilo of meat is, and how much one kilo of meat costs, in many restaurants there are 200 and 300 grams of that same meat more expensive by two or three times. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. Well, apparently some colleagues don't care, they're more interested in getting it, but I don't want to do it, because if they didn't get it, maybe they'd learn something. Another thing, and who else should be involved in promoting local self-government and their tourist offer, but the local self-government units themselves through companies that they themselves founded? Here, the Fireman is mentioned, has his own tourist organization. Well, should this only tourist organization be involved in the organization of the "Ljubičevski Konjički Games" or the tourist promotion of Požarevec? It means he's involved in the tourist promotion of the Fireman. Is that why he should support local businesses involved in the organization of tourism? Yeah. And will it always be free? No, because it's now funded from the city budget. Every time you make a certain income, you have to expect something to be given to the state, not just to tell populist stories. Let's help, spend money and see what the result is going to be, and then ask the question, where will schools be arranged, where will hospitals be arranged, where will new roads be made, where will road reconstructions be financed from? (Miss Radeta: It's populism. No, it's not populism, it's not populism, it's populism, as some of us talked about here, when we get to power, we'll cut the tax. Now, these don't say, we'll cut taxes, but don't do anything, don't pay taxes at all, why you charge taxes, and now you're still asking whether local tourism organisations should participate. Well, of course you should. I understand that the problem of the tax system's imperfection is why the local self-government units are doing it, so I guess we're all fighting for a certain decentralisation. So, what's the problem? Well, Siniša Mali can't set the mayor's priorities, the Mayor of Požarevec has to determine them and can't determine the priorities of the tourist organization Požarec, but rather the management of the tourist organisation Požarec and their director. I don't understand what you want. I really don't understand what you want. Here, you ask. Tourist tax is local income and there is a mechanism to determine whether it is paid or not. Based on the records of your stay in that facility. (Miss Radeta: How? And who's keeping that record? ) He who provides services just as he must issue you a fiscal account. Do I need to teach you everything? Really, I don't know, but if I have to, I don't want to waste my time at the Assembly, and I'm giving classes in private and free of charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52214	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52215	Article 107. You should've reacted. This was really an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. True, perhaps counterpart Arsic wants to return the services of numerous free lectures he received from us and from us, but this is really not appropriate. He doesn't know the answer to the question, and then now he's gonna give someone a lecture. Well, he doesn't have to give a lecture, just let him answer the questions, how do you charge a residence tax? Who guarantees that every guest, let's say at the Vranjska spa, is applying? Here, we claim that's not the case. So we're talking about what really is the subject of these laws, and now Arsic, what time it is, just fine weather, half-five, that he's talking now, some populist stories and that he's making some kind of joke about something that's not a joke. True, we were throwing him here, but we weren't throwing him away, but we were asking questions because he's trying to explain to us, to say something that's absolutely not true. He's acting as some financial expert. You're not, Arsic, we know that, but don't get into what you don't know, and especially don't let the MPs insult each other anymore. We work here and communicate well with the minister and we don't mind communicating with the MPs of power, thanks to you who allow replicas. It's all nice and you don't have to be petty, you have to allow replicas, you have to exchange opinions, and you can make little jokes about the MP during your debate, but really it was absolutely inappropriate. You know, there's no one who can't tell me who's a college student with a high average, with so many years' work experience, who doesn't have all that to tell me and to give me some class and do it for free. I'm sorry, it's an insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52216	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Arsic, reported after the amendment and presented his view of the issue, may have expanded his story a little, but he has the right to do so. First, according to the Rules of Procedure Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52217	I'm advertising Articles 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. As my colleague Radeta, an esteemed colleague, already said – we were Veroljub Arsic as he spoke a little bit. Should I mention what they were throwing at the microphone? About parrots, arguing in the head, etc. I don't have a problem, and it's happening now. While Radeta's colleague was talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I was sitting there listening and I don't mind what they get, but then they get angry when I answer to them. I don't have a problem. They can't interrupt my concentration as much as they do, just don't let it turn out that I'm insulting the dignity of the National Assembly by my chosen words, in a correct way responding to their throwaways, without any personal insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52218	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Not twice can the same member of the law. Same sense. I gave my colleague a chance to say it. However, he also mentioned article 106. We can continue the debate. Here you go. Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic, then Vojislav Vujic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52219	Mr. Nedimovic, I believe you understand what the point is. I'm to explain to Arsic now who didn't want to read it and who doesn't want to understand it, who twists words out of context and you're talking to the SRS and to us who work hard and hard here, we're correcting these impossible laws and you say - someone is calling for no tax to be paid. Who does that? Are you talking to us, Mr. Arsic? When did we do that? You know, for years, we've been asking you not to make a pact with Serbian tycoons who haven't done it. Well, you're a little nice to them, so you're not, so you're arresting someone, and then you're letting them go. You are now telling us who are always fighting for justice and that citizens are given what is theirs, that we are calling someone to such a kind of disobedience. So, Mr. Nedimovic, there's been a really big system error here. In this law, the Tourist Organizations of Local Self-Government Units, in your city, in my or any other city, are bound, i.e., to give them the opportunity to do what they do besides their others, and most of them all do it really much better than before, because almost every work in Serbia has its own local event, and more times a year. It's what people do with two, three employees and modest means. So, they now commit that when a guest, whether domestic or foreign, comes to the apartment in Soko Banja, that money will be paid to the budget of Soko Banja or Vrnjačka Banja, and then the local self-government should return it to that landlord, or the one who betrayed that guest. This is impossible because the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Local Self-Government does not give such a possibility. So then these citizens and those people who have equipped those units for their accommodation will carry out the categorization, report, name some names and their apartments, and their houses, may be deprived and they will come into a stalemate position so that the Treasury can't transfer the funds to them. You understand that because they're not registered to do that. There, it's a lecture to Veroljub Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52220	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52221	The Honorable Chairman, since Vrnjačka Banja is two, three times mentioned as one of the better tourist resorts in Serbia, and I come from Vrnjaca Banja. But with the most thieves. Say it again. Well, you said with the most thieves. But when it comes to residence fees, there's one thing I have to agree with my colleague Radet, which is that there's really no mechanism for how we can charge those fees. Unfortunately, the tourist organisation can neither, nor has the authority to enter any apartment and to legitize the guests in those apartments. Mr. Nedimovic, Minister, I apologize, but I simply either address you or the chairman, so if I could just have a little attention. Maybe it is, I don't expect you to give me an answer to this question, because you're someone who deals with agriculture and you do it well, but this is the thing that's about tourism. (The Belief of Radeta: It would be a turn.) My colleague's right. There is no mechanism or authority of the tourist organisation workers to carry out any legitimacy and control, whether someone has paid a residence tax or not. A concrete example is that in Vrnjačka Banja there are over two thousand apartments owned by people who do not live in Vrnjačka Banja, they live in some other cities and they can use the apartment for their own purposes, and most of the year the same apartments can betray. Of course, there's no one who can execute whether it's communal or not. residence tax charged or not. That's true. Whether to copy a model of some countries dealing with tourism in the environment. Croatia has dealt with this in a good way, but first of all, when it comes to foreign citizens, but with us domestics there is absolutely no possibility of controlling private tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52222	Thank you, colleague Vujic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go. What's the matter with you? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52223	No, it's because it's all well written in the law, but after I'm accused of not reading the law. He says: “The tax is paid by the user of the accommodation service outside his place of residence to benefit from the accommodation service. ” Like any citizen when he goes out to buy something, he pays his taxes. But in the following point, he says: “The tax pays for every day of stay at the catering facility for accommodation. ” Here, and that's what it says. ‘The payment of the residence tax by the service user shall be charged by the entity providing the accommodation service’. If someone performs the work for which it is registered, there is a competent inspection service. Even a tourist inspection. You have a market inspection, you have a number of types of inspection that... (Vernica Radeta: Vrnjačka Banja municipality president has apartments... Please, I can't hear how much they get when you're giving them arguments. The entity carrying out the performance control shall be subject to control and the charge shall be charged. So there's a mechanism here to determine. We're in the capital. Who can legislate guests in a hotel? Here, in the capital, we don't want to talk about Vranjak or the Fireman, who can legitize it? (People's MPs earn: police, communals.) Just the police, no one else. So here's the problem, it's not the service user that's being legitimate, but it's being controlled and supervised by the service provider, or it's doing the work. That's what the service's inspections are checking. Whether or not the guest has been reported, whether or not he is listed in the book, whether or not he has been charged a tax. I hope you're not after the guest. You're after the one who's doing the favor. So there are organs that take care of it. As it will be transferred to the tourist organisation, there is again a competent service in each unit of local self-government. It's a budget inspection. I guess local self-government when it introduces these residence fees determines their purpose. Either the funds are budgets or they are entrusted to this tourist organisation so that it will no longer be a direct or indirect beneficiary of the budget. I think that's how it works. Serbia is not the only one. Physical persons who are registered to perform their duties, they pay on a flat-rate basis. So by the number of rooms, by the number of beds, by the kind of service they have. Once a year, it's determined how much it is and that's it. If it's going to be in another system, you know how it goes. There's a way of registering and everything that goes. Even non-registered individuals can provide certain services, but they still have to report to the Tourist Board of Local Self-Government Unit, which will again determine their flat-rate rate. The world didn't start with this law, it already exists. It is only now that this Law is closer to regulating a way implemented by some other laws for a particular area and activity. Nothing more. Chairman: thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52224	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52225	What Mr. Arsic was saying was just such a classic replacement of thesis. So none of us here talked about how many rooms there are, you know how many beds there are, you know, normally that someone enlists every guest to pay a fee, check in, and no one's done with it. We're talking about something else, the fact that you haven't found a way to charge a living tax for every guest in this law either. It's not five guests, it's not 100 guests. Maltenes as many as there are those who are regular for whom a residence tax is paid, there are so many who do not get paid a stay tax. What's one of the basic reasons? I'm just a little while ago, so Arsic gets angry, he says - we throw away, we don't throw away, but I'm just trying to distract him. What's one of the basic reasons? Full of Serbia, full of Zlatibor, full of Vrnjačka spa. I'm talking about these two places that are, like, the most attractive touristic currently in Serbia, the most orderly etc. On Zlatibor and Vranjska Banja, you have countless facilities without a building permit. So no one has records. Everybody knows, it's these little places. Everyone knows, but there's no record. I'm just a moment ago, she says, she threw, no but it's really a public secret, take a walk in Vranjska Banja, everyone will show you the building that owns the president of the municipality, which has no building permit, which has apartments and has one. It's not just the president of the municipality, it's as many as you want, and who's going to control it now? So, it's a private building, without a building permit, nowhere registered, nice apartments arranged, furnished and there's someone who brings these guests, if by recommendation, whether by adverts etc. and you have such guests in every tourist resort as long as you want. We're talking about it. So you haven't systemically solved it. We don't think now we need to walk the inspection, or walk the police around Zlatibor and anyone he meets to say – give us a ID card. Of course, no, but he has to send... You can obviously see, you're talking about digitisation, you must at any moment click there to see how many registered guests there are at Vrnjačka Banja in Zlatibor, in Kopalnik, Soko Banja wherever. You see, people, it's twice as many people and don't close your eyes to something that's a fact. We're just trying to come together to help you come up with a solution together, because that problem that exists isn't the problem of us sitting here in the National Assembly, it's not the problem of us going to some spa for 10 days, on some mountain, etc. in Serbia, it's the problem of those people who live there, it's the problem of local self-government. It's a problem of missing funds in local self-governments that can't be charged, and there's real, and then you're telling us -- that's right, so you can say -- when the legalization of all the facilities is over, then we're going to be a little bit more rigorous and control, no, you're not going to admit that that's the case, but you're making us ignorants and you're explaining to us how everyone has to get into the hotel, so everyone can, not everyone, but the inspection can control every guest book, etc. Who's talking about it? We're talking about the black market in tourism. That's what we're talking about, and that's all you want. You black market and the gray economy bring down some... I don't know, you train hard work at the markets where someone's selling something, who doesn't have enough money to pay for the gig, etc. Well, that's what people do to survive, and those who make buildings at Vrnjak spa to have guests, and they charge just as much as those who pay all the neatly and tourist taxes and taxes, etc., maybe even more, because their apartments are more luxurious, they invest more, and then the guest gets more. So why won't you admit that reality and at least promise to do something like you as a government if Rasim returns from exile. Tell him what's the problem at the ministry he's headed for. Why do I say he's in exile? Because it looks like the Ministry of Exile to him. It's not that he's not here today, it's that there's no secretary of state, no assistant. Is the ministry working? Last time you explained to us where he was, so he wasn't here, maybe even now, to see if he's on Mecca's junk or repacking trucks or if he's with Sulja Ugljanin and talking to this Alliance for Serbia. You know, he's with Sulja Ugljanin... I know that you know, Mr. Nedimovic, so I want you to answer me if you know that Sulljo and Rasim are coalition partners in the Bosniak National Council? You know. Did you know that as part of that coalition, Sulljo is openly attached to the Alliance for Serbia. I'm obviously not open yet, and maybe, if you know, share with us, tell us, they'll stay between us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52226	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I know. I can tell you. He's in Moscow with our friends and partners. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52227	Thank you. Here, since I'm coming from the Soko spa, I'd like to get some things out of practice. It is good that this bill gives the landlords freedom to pay their own residence tax and are no longer obliged to enter into contracts with tourist agencies, or organisations, and to charge residence fees through them. It is not true that tourist organisations bring the level of tourist taxis. This is done at the decision of the city's assembly or local self-government, of course, in collaboration with the tourist organization. It is a problem that there is a grey economy regarding the collection of residence tax, but this law just stresses that local self-government is given the right to regulate that they will implement tourism policy on their local self-government and it is the tourist inspectors who will take care of how many tourists are reported and how many are not reported. They have certain ingenuity tourist inspectors. The second thing, by introducing these vouchers is really a gray economy, as far as tourism is concerned, reduced, at least for a third, to a minimum, because by introducing vouchers, you are introduced into the system and you are obliged to pay taxes and residence taxes and any other charges you have to pay to the state. Of course, it is in the interest of tourist destinations to charge as many tourist fees as possible, because of these funds local self-government builds infrastructure and everything else, which actually improves the tourist offer for its tourists. I do not agree with the opinion of our colleagues from the Radical Party that nothing has been done and that nothing is done to curb the grey economy in tourism, or to reduce the number of tourists who do not pay residence fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52228	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52229	- It's an incorrect microphone. I thank you, President-in-Office. After these discussions, it is obvious that there are some dilemmas that the legislator and this law have tried to resolve. They are somewhat earlier resolved, but there are those who will hardly be resolved in due course. What's this about? It is about the fact that indeed budgetary and tourist inspections have legal powers to respond when it comes to taxi charges and other problems related to the provision of tourist services. In particular - tourist registration, submission of applications when it comes to the tourist season and outside the tourist season and what becomes a problem, which is that so-called. gray or black zone in the domain of providing tourist services. What we have to admit as a fact is the following – tourist inspections do not respond. They don't react for two reasons. The first reason is that the controls question the tourist destination itself, create certain inconveniences for the users of tourist services and, on the third hand, because we have an insufficient number of persons employed in tourist services. The insufficient number of persons employed in inspection tourist services is generated for the reason we still have the regulations on restricting employment. Of course, I rightly welcome that this regulation has some purpose, it has some purpose to protect the public sector, but on the other hand it is obvious that certain local self-governments where tourist services are provided, we also mentioned Zlatibor and Vranjska Banja, there are many, indeed, dissipated with the staff when it comes to tourist inspection services. That fact itself, which cannot be doubted, also indicates that it cannot be responded adequately. Then we create a picture that really bounces from what should exist when legal provisions are applied directly and strictly. In the end, what is very important, I would disagree that this law is bad. This legislative proposal has the necessary capacity to accept and respect it. The SPS parliamentary group will surely support this legal framework in the voting day. However, respectable Minister Nedimovic, I think you share my opinion that the legal framework should be strengthened. They're not...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52230	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52231	Is that okay? So it's not just the law we're discussing today...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52232	Please wait for your colleague to finish, and then we will.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52233	It is a whole sector of legislation that should in principle be complementary to this law, to allow the tourism service to function more efficiently. In particular, our law on the basis of property-legal relations, of course formulates absolutely as an unimpeached right of property. Now, and how incurring private property can cause one legal consequence called disturbing the state property or disturbing the property. So, in this direction, further, legally react in a way that implies relaxation, let's say, obligations on the one hand and rights on the other hand when it comes to disturbing the state, when it comes to disturbing the service and everything else, and then allow direct control, direct insight into the factual state, without any obstacles, without any fences. I think that way we could form a nice stronger picture when it comes to the legislative framework that solves this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52234	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't want to take my word for it before this, but I think we're a little off from the main intensities that were in the Household Law, respecting all your opinions and all your views, the fact is that we have a gray zone in the so-called area. "issued apartment per day", issuing certain accommodation facilities, in particular, I will try to connect to that sector in which I currently work, which is agriculture, above all I mean rural tourism. Go from one simple thing, there's a country household that has registered in local self-government eight-ten beds, it's not a single number at all, most of the guests come, come on call, stay, never know, there's no arrangements for seven days, ten, most often talk. If we're going to talk about life, if we're not going to have a theoretical debate, those people who were service providers didn't have the possibility, or they had the theoretical possibility of a nice man leaving, call a travel agency that was his middleman, and then he reports it, and tomorrow morning he can pick himself up and leave, they haven't had the opportunity to react effectively and quickly. In those situations, not to be in the black zone, but to go, as I would say, into a clean sphere. We've had a similar situation with seasonal workers in agriculture where we've had a situation where you never know tomorrow whether they'll be able to work at all because of atmospheric opportunities, whether the same people will come to you, if you can report it today, and that it'll take some time. It may seem that they are not compatible at first sight, that these are grandmothers and frogs, but believe me, these rural landowners had a problem, too, with the creation of an e-tourism platform where they will be able to be flat-rate residents' taxes by 30 days, it's one of the instruments to reduce that gray zone. No one says it will absolutely clean everything up. Vouchers are one tool. This e-tourist and applications and these residence fees in this way are a second tool. That's the essence of the whole story. Now, I understand where you're going. You remember the situation when there were certain catering facilities. That's how the solution was 10, 15 years ago, I can't remember when anymore. The catering facilities can only be controlled which are registered, and those which are not registered must not be entered. Afterwards, there was a legal void, and who's allowed in here now and what's to get in. Now, there's that tool. You won't take away from me for evil, which I will now use some previous experience from some of my former work. Tourist tax is the original income of local self-government. It has absolutely discretionary right for local self-government to prescribe a way to control whether certain income is charged or not. It doesn't have to, it could be zero. You're absolutely right. If the interest in attracting tourists is zero, then it's unnecessary to talk about some big records, but there's a certain obligation again, there's an obligation of flat-rate taxation. It is not the same as providing services, and the other is residence tax. There's a possibility, so you don't even have a budget inspection, God forgive me, classic crimes, you don't have a list of criminals you're looking for who committed the crime, but there's a budget inspection, there's a tourist inspection that, looking at the area where certain occurrences occur, in this case, people who don't want to pay a residence tax, but they're not tourists here, they're service providers, then there are tools for sanctioning them. Those tools are literally standing. It is a avoidance of the payment of local tax revenues, and it will be absolutely specified in the city's, municipal decision, which regulates this matter, and there is authority. (The Faith of Radeta: There is no authority.) I'm telling you guys, look, you're making a situation right now, 95% of the time we solved the problem, and we had 36% of the paid residence taxis. We're going to 95. I agree that this legal solution may have some kind of hole, but in the end, everything is susceptible, life changes everything. Life can change everything. What's good about this is that there was an instrument for those who had no incentive to go into all this until now, because they didn't know how to behave, not justifyingly, they had an earlier obligation. Their obligation exists before and now. Only now is it greatly easier for them to realize their obligation at a significantly lower price. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52236	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52237	Mr. Minister, we really need to talk in detail about jurisdiction, about matters that an inspector can do at the level of local self-government units. Now look at the rights and duties, the powers of the inspectors of the local self-government units, and that's Article 83. Is it possible to implement this in action? You had the law here, just before there was Mr. Ruzic, about the Central Population Register. We have a law on the protection of personal data. We have law on the police. Now tell me, please, how one, that was a problem in the 2009 law, and then the amendment of the SRS was accepted, and it was then deleted. How, please, is one inspector of the local self-government unit coming into some complex, here, the one that you're referring to, and I mean, I know what you're talking about, there's a lot of those that have been developed for ethnic tourism and they've imported these catering activities, to carry out with, here, colleagues, identifying the identity of users of the personal map, travel documents or other public correctness with photography? Except for the police, no one can really do that. You can control the facility, you can control whether it's the owner that he's pretending to be, whether he has registered workers, what he has to have, whether according to the categorization that he's received from the facility, and not like these Serbian cheated tourists, they've paid for an arrangement through these agencies that he tolerated inspection supervision of Rasim Ljajic, they've traveled, or they haven't even travelled, and there the cockroaches, the sanitary node, they have no place to stay, they've gone with both young children and pregnant women and student excursions, etc. It can't simply be a mistake and such concepts to be put into a law where it doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52239	Someone will come, Mr. Marinkovic, here you go somewhere and this one says -- here I am, but here you are, now in Sokobanja, mentioned there, and there is indeed a larger number and the inflow of foreign tourists by 500%, 600% and there is a charge for that tax, because I follow that work, as well as some others. But, please, tell me, how is this someone going to tell you, you're going to say, and who are you, are you the police, what are you? I mean, it's just amazing that the face that can't have that public, is that right, the squirrel, the authority, does that, because someone's going to say, "Don't bother me, please, please, talk to the owner here." When it happened to you, here you were now on some official trip, right, it doesn't matter, anybody goes, let's say, Arsic, to show up at some hotel as a Parliamentarian, and to knock on your door an inspector from, say, a permanent delegation to Strasbourg and say it's in a hotel -- it's those guests, if it's a delegation from Serbia, is what they call, there are their registered passports, knock-knock on the door, says give me your ID, so, normally, everyone will make a scandal and call the embassy, etc., and if it's not the police everywhere and in every place has the right to control the security of the citizens and to do that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52240	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so if everything was ideal, we wouldn't even be passing this law. The problem is that all those shortcomings that were previously in this regulation, we are trying to remove this law as far as possible. And in all things, a lot of things I agree with the minister, first of all, about that famous local tax. It's local income. But now the question is, how do you get the taxpayers to pay for it? Well, it is local income and it is public income, not taxes, but public. And not reporting that kind of income is a felony. There is no other mechanism. So you can't just look through one law to solve everything. It is written in the law itself – the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act applies, the Budgetary System Act applies, the local self-government unit assembly makes and determines the amount of tax, for specific areas it can make a decision in particular. Well, it's all in this law. Now, is it in the interest of local self-government to charge taxes? Well, I guess it is. If there's extra money, it's going to communally edit the space and thus help its service providers, so it's a matter of local self-government. Don't take away your rights to local self-government. It is that in the law itself, from the lowest to the highest tax, the Government determines what amount it will be and sets certain amounts, in this law we determine certain privileged categories. But don't get involved in the business of local self-government units. They're the ones who take care, like before there was a problem with the charge of the property tax. When it became the original income of local self-government units, they quickly arranged the bases, they quickly began to issue solutions, they quickly made their tax administrations and part of the tax and exploited the local self-government, and based on it they regulate the municipal infrastructure. That's how it's gonna be. We can't say for the law right now – it's not a good law because there's some likelihood that someone will sometimes abuse it. Well, then we couldn't pass any laws, none. So this is not about controlling service users, it's about providing services, for a number of reasons. The most popular is to talk about taxes, fiscal taxes, etc., and whether they meet the conditions – hygiene, health and all others, and that is important. Well, most often there are our people, in these hotels often foreign guests, but in these small accommodations the largest number of users of services are our citizens. Well, I guess we should worry about their health, not just because it's cheap, but where that man will take his family and his children. I guess that's primary. I guess it's primary, not residence tax. I agree in much part with Mr. Minister's discussion, but fellow MPs, please, units of local self-government are the ones most needing to enforce this law, in addition to their possibilities, against their estimates. One more thing. We can mention the presidents of the municipalities of these or those, they're like this or they're like that. It's our subjective or objective right and judgment. That's what the election's all about. Well, I guess they take care of what they do before the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-12-0.u52242	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to thank you for your attention. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
