ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-0.u60947	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. We're moving on to a decision on the motions of the law from the point. From the 1st to the 5th agenda. First item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON DUAL MODEL OF STUDY IN SPECIFIC EDUCATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the dual model of higher education studies in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133 MPs, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five MPs, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, has, from 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, has, from 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, has, from 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, has, from 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, has, from 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, has, from 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-0.u60948	I put the amendments to Article 32 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the dual model of higher education studies in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs out of 137. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law on the dual model of higher education studies. I put to the vote the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted five MPs, of a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—two against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 43 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53 submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 73, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 78, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 82 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 83, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 83, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 88 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 92, which was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 93, which was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 97 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to article 1 which, with correction, was passed by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 which, with correction, was passed by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the patent law. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 130, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted seven. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the vote, which, after Article 16, is proposed to add Article 16a. by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Aleksandar Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 19 to the vote, with the correction submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 19 to the vote, with the correction submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 35 submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by MP Momo Colakovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 46, which, with corrections, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 47, which was tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 48, which, with corrections, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 51 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 55 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 58 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 59, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 62, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 67, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is proposed to add Article 70a after article 70a), with a correction submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 71 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 72, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 135, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We're moving to agenda five. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
