ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-14-0.u52324	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 139 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the sittings of Parliament Vice-President Djordje Milicevic. He was the only one, according to the Rules of Procedure, to report his absence. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. I put the draft law on the Central Population Register, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting amendments to article 21, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am voting on amendments to Article 23, which was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. After we've completed our amendments, I'm putting to the vote the draft law on the Central Population Register, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for a law on the Central Population Register. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on plant-nutrition and land-mining products, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not one MP of the people. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 22 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on plant-nutrition and land-mining agents, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 146, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on plant feeding and land processing. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act, in principle. I am concluding the vote; two MPs did not vote for – 145, against – one, with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 29, which was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 42 tabled by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 43, which was tabled by Member Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 134 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 12 MPs. I find that the Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on plant protection funds in principle. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 146 MPs, against – one abstention – one MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to put the amendments to article 1 which was tabled by Ms. Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by Member Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by Ambassador Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on plant protection products in general. I conclude the vote: for – 145 MPs, against – one, abstention – no one. n I find that the National Assembly passed the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health in principle. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 145 MPs, against – two, abstention – one MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Ms Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by Ambassador Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by Member Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which was submitted by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 45 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 45, which was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 52 tabled by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Plant Health Act as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs, against – two, abstention – no one. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill as a whole. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Household Act in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs, against – two, abstention – no one. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Ms Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by the Members of the People of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by the Members of the People of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by Ambassador Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting amendments to the amendment to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting on a vote on the bill of hospitality, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted one. I find that the Assembly has passed a bill on hospitality. I put the draft tourism law to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 145, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the Assembly passed the bill, in principle. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 2 submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by the Members of the People of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by the MEP, Verice Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by Ambassador Marina Ristic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I put the proposal for a tourism law in general to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – one, abstention – one, did not vote one. I find that the Assembly has passed a proposal for a tourism law. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Constitution of the International Civil Protection Organisation, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 145 against – no one with abstentions. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Federal Executive Council of the Assembly of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, with the Protocol, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted eight MPs for – 139. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a proposal to appoint Srdjan Smiljanic as Secretary General of the National Assembly. Finalising vote: for – 145. I understand that we have appointed Srdjan Smiljanic as Secretary General of the National Assembly. Allow me to congratulate the secretary general on his choice on your own and on my personal behalf. Now we only have very short injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vojislav Seselj, at a session on 5 March 2019, at 13 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please report this injury. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 March 2019, at 11 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158(7). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you to plead with me on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. After we had considered all the points of the agenda of this session and decided on them in accordance with Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year. The next session is already scheduled for Wednesday at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
