ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for further work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Mihajlović Vacic, Branimir Jovanovic, Snezana Petrovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been called for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Rule 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for the need to consider the laws of the agenda and bring them in on time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the call of this session, which was called upon by the Government, under Rule 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law on dual study model in higher education; 2. Proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act and 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out a joint uniform search on: Proposal for a law on dual model of higher education studies; Proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications and a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Topography of Semiconductive Products. Does the National MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going after work according to the established agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarcevic and his associates from the Ministry are present today, as well as Vladimir Maric, director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and his associates. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on the dual model of higher education studies and the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. Does Minister Sarcevic want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60160	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable People's MPs, dear colleagues, I won't be a long introduction to make, we just said that on the Education Committee. They're five laws, and they're very related. Three are intellectual property domains and aim to bring the areas already governed by our laws into line with the chapters opened in Chapter 7. Here we have a series of creative and good solutions that repair old laws and therefore all three laws are about patents and intellectual property and half-conductors, essentially changing and supplementing existing ones. Whatever it is, in some ways, more order has been introduced among those people who are users of such laws, and so far, people who have been seen better in the fields of music and other art. I think there will be a huge contribution here to people in the field of acting, because they are now seen as authors of their actions and here they are arranged for every broadcast and re-emission as a possibility that they have a better material position. Many other domains of protection are being arranged when it comes to ICT structures, meaning software protection. Also, protection in the field of organizations dealing with these affairs is better money control, distribution of the resources of people who do so and a number of other bodies that need to edit this area. When it comes to patents, it is also strictly taken into account that the work of intellectual property is protected by patent carriers, i.e. patents created in the process of work are part of a solution that also gives the patentler much greater prospects and opportunities for its better status in society. Also, because of the specificity of information technologies, this is where relations to European tradition are arranged, and they have similarly yielded results from many countries that suit us with size or development somewhere, to bring us into line with some of our views. When it comes to the Law on regulated professions and qualifications, it is important that we know that we have already passed a law here in the congregation, so to speak. A small law, which protected regulated professions from the importance of the Republic of Serbia. This law is now conditional upon the adoption of procedures for Chapter 3 to comply with the legislation and to bring our Qualifications Agency in line with other countries. Also, it has only been applied when Serbia enters the EU. So he doesn't have a fact right now, but he has the fact that these are standards for certain qualifications, and here it's listed which are protected, i.e. regulated professions. The most important law, not to underestimate these previous ones, is the development law in the education system in the Republic of Serbia, which is the Law on so-called "the Law". Double-model studies. Two years ago, we passed a dual education law here in high schools and, with all the criticisms of a certain part of the public, proved to be a good story. In the first year there were 400 students only by dual models, in the second 4,500. The 11-time jump turned out to be a great thing. This year is 7,400. It grows year after year and is modelled by the need for Serbia's economy. Since we do not have companies like Germany, Austria, Switzerland, but mostly small and medium-sized enterprises, our model is developing very specific circumstances of the development of the Serbian economy, but for the first time education, along with regional chambers and the labour market, is harmonising this area and in a way taking care of human resources, because we have already come to the position that certain professions and no and that they do not want young people to work. It is particularly important that we are secondary education in the last and perhaps the most qualitative part of the population, primarily through the aviation industry area, and this is now a great perspective for bringing aircraft clusters and the development of aviation and mechanics in that part and for machine studies. Dual studies are already very present in Europe in many countries. So not only Germany, not only Switzerland, and many other countries that do. The best example is neighbouring Hungary. So, by bringing in large European companies, the needs for engineers, the needs for various other professions have proved to be very high. The development of the IT industry in Serbia through the creative industries is now showing great momentum. That's over a billion euros a year. In order to preserve these young people in the country, electric engineers, machine engineers, but also economists, bankers, doctors and all others, they must pass a different kind of education. So, it won't interfere with classic models, but these students, who, by their will as full-time citizens, opted for this type of study, can count on big company support, with a good contract and guarantee and safety at work and social and anything else that goes along with it, they have guaranteed work and companies are already hungry people who would give and show a chance at the beginning of the study. As good as it is for young people, it is even better for those other people who have not taken the most sought after profession at the moment, than in some domain of the profession that we consider perspective, and perhaps six months ago we adopted here amendments and additions to the Law on Student Standard, where, in addition to this vision, we then suggested this possibility of law with regular scholarships given to all good students for all the areas they choose. A single category of students has been established which will be established annually or on a shorter cycle, and whether it is a food technology, whether it is a profession that represents a closer perspective to us at this point, so it is forming this particular line that will deal with it. Of course all these laws have passed all the procedures. What was once a dilemma about how dual studies would be experienced, so the academic community took part in making all of this. If the Pupin Institute participated, if it is a Faculty of Civil Engineering, if it is a Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Economic, Belgrade, Novi Sad Technical, Electronic Nis, it means, our most representative universities, if they were part of the team's current university, and the experiences of large projects "Edu Dual" and "Edu Lab" have been used, where we have seen really the effects of what students themselves say, how they feel when they complete classical studies, and how they feel when they pass one regime and know production processes and all other directions. Personally, I think this is for the benefit of young people, that this is the reform direction of those branches of the development of the economy, which in some ways certainly retain young people in the country and is a good signal to serious companies that have developmental and research laboratories in Serbia, and that, thank God, is increasingly. So I can suggest that the Serbian government is doing a project that will provide through another CEB credit with a new high education infrastructure, especially in the area of these universities. First of all, in Belgrade, at Belgrade University, the feasibility study is already near the end. It's ETF, the FON is already working, the Faculty of Mathematics, releasing parts from the work of construction and architectural. There will be a new two campuses in New Belgrade. Working in Nis, the Electronic 7,000 square building increases, the PMF in Nis and Kragujevac, a new student accommodation at 3,500 squares, 800 should be designed in Novi Sad, 3,500 in New Belgrade and about 500 in Nis, with Nis now ending 450. So this is an expansion in higher education, and it monitors and participates in science. At the same time, this whole process is a joint project of both Serbian science and Serbian higher education, as well as the Chamber of Commerce and all people who need to say what is needed. Two years ago in this home, we introduced a new category of higher education law, which is the Council of Employers, so that these people can influence the processes at the university, that they really say what kind of student programmes are more desirable and more wanted and a series of new newspapers that fit into these issues, which have to do with improving and developing and reforming education in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60161	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The first one checked in with Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60162	Thank you. In the next few minutes, I will present an opinion on two proposals for SVM legislation, why we will support them in the voting day and why we think it is extremely important to discuss the dual model of studies in higher education, as well as regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications. First, because these bill proposals, as we have heard it, put the focus on knowledge itself, as a source and long-term generator of our society's change, because they place the development of the entire society on two pillars, both the knowledge economy and the knowledge-based economy, the use of knowledge and skills, which is extremely significant, in order to create economic benefits and jobs. As we heard on the committee itself and last week on the Committee on European Integration, when we talk about a dual model of higher education studies, it was actually prepared for this, i.e. a legal basis, a legal framework for the Law on Higher Education itself, which we adopted two years ago, in 2017. New legal solutions have then been introduced to enable institutionalise co-operation between the economy, i.e. employers and higher education institutions. Although these, then new, legal solutions from 2017, gave the legal framework to improve the co-operation of higher education institutions and businesses, i.e. employers, did not create a legal basis to introduce the reality of the dual model of studies, and now we are correcting it, that is, by adopting this law we will make it possible to do so. Students who complete double-model studies, given the significant practical experience they have gained in this way, increase their chances of employment both from those businessmen, employers, where they have done learning through work and from other employers from the same or similar activities. What I would like to thank Mr. Minister and Associates, that this time this bill on learning through work, one of the basic mandatory elements is that if the study programme is implemented in the language of the national minority, the employer is obliged to organise and implement learning through the work of the very language of that national minority. We had a very similar time, not to say the exact amendment when we talked about the Dual Education Act. This time it was included in the bill itself, we didn't have to respond to the amendment. We thank you for that. What we talked about and what is significant is, to be clear, that the dual model of study is not really mandatory, but voluntary. We in the SVM parliamentary group as the basic parameters of improving the education system see the constant rise, and what the ministry is working on, constantly raising the quality of the education system and increasing investment in education, as far as possible, i.e. the establishment of an education system, which, which is extremely significant nowadays, provides greater flexibility and security in the labour market based on a fundamental general education and what is important today, the possibility of selecting additional training, so on. life long learning. A significant respect for the right to education as a fundamental democratic right is available to all. I will now rely a little on the chapters spoken of by the Honorable Minister, the right to business residence and the freedom to provide services, because, in fact, by the provisions of these two higher education laws, the area of recognition of professional qualifications is aligned with the principles on which the European space of higher education and European research space is formed. It is widely known that it would be necessary for EU candidate countries to adapt EU legislation in terms of free provision of services and education and culture. Therefore, it is necessary to bring domestic legislation in line with EU law. One measure of adapting to a single EU qualification system is the more famous Bologna process, which refers to higher education, and is discussed under Chapter 26 – Education and Culture. This chapter is open and the Republic of Serbia has opened and temporarily closed it. On this occasion, I would also like to talk about Chapter 3, as did the minister, who is the right to business residence and freedom to provide services. Unfortunately, Chapter 3 is not yet open, despite the fact that the screening for this chapter was completed long ago in 2014 and in fact the Scanning Report was published somewhere in March 2015. The Scanning Report says that one single criterion for opening chapters, which is that Serbia should deliver a comprehensive and detailed strategy to the European Commission for compliance with the legal assets for professional qualifications. This strategy must also cover the adjustment of the training of doctors, dentists, nurses in charge of general care, midwives, pharmacists or veterinarians, which is necessary to meet the minimum requirements of training mentioned. The Republic of Serbia, therefore, has taken the obligation to pass a special law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications over a period prior to EU accession. It's significant that he's in front of us now. This law will have a delayed fact, i.e. its application will begin only on the day of EU accession, but it also requires the creation of administrative assumptions for its application. It is important to stress that the adoption of this law, which we are discussing today, is also one of the recommendations of the European Commission Report, the latest report, since this year, published on 29 May 2019. The European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in European integration says, unfortunately, that the Republic of Serbia is still only moderately prepared in these areas and it is estimated that progress has not been made in terms of the right to settle and provide services. That's why it's important that we have now reached this step. The report also says that the recommendations of last 2018 have not been implemented and remain important. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians believes that higher education, based on research, is a basic prerequisite for social, economic and cultural progress and the development of society. The dual model of studies, as we have heard and we hope, will contribute to the development of research, innovation, because indeed smaller companies that do not have the opportunity to form research teams, primarily because of lack of proper staff, will be able to enable students of the dual model to be a link that will actually point to these companies' modern achievements and encourage university and company co-operation to realize scientific and research projects. I am pleased that he mentioned several examples from mainly EU member states in the opening presentation. I would like to mention several examples and experiences of various countries, since these experiences are really different and can be said to depend on the country itself and are tailored to their needs. In fact, statistics from the Federal Institute for Professional Education of Germany indicate that the offer of dual study programmes in Germany is extremely diverse, wide. In fact, the number of dual study programmes doubled from 2006 to 2011. In 2014 the number of such programmes in Germany reached a thousand and a half offers. On the basis of the most recent data available, for the past 2018, all types of higher education institutions are included in the dual study programmes in Germany, but it should be noted that 64% of the total programme takes place in higher education schools, 23% at professional schools, and only 7% at traditional universities and 6% at so-called. dual high schools. For the school's current year, 2019/20, more than two thousand companies in Germany are offering dual programmes. Also, we consider it a good example of a dual model of higher education in the public sector and France. In France, for example, large state-owned companies, such as France's electricity industry, which employs more than two and a half thousand employees, have an obligation to have a number of dual students among employees. This is, in particular, a minimum of 5%. For example, in the electricity industry of France, according to the 2016 data, about 6,000 dual students were employed, of which the job received an extremely high percentage, 88%, and worked with five and a half industrial mentors. For the very end, the example of Hungary, which we heard about, because the main objective of the Hungarian government was to significantly improve the system of higher education after more than two decades of economic transition, in order to meet the needs of the labour market and to increase the competitiveness of the country through the co-operation of higher education institutions and local companies. It is widely known that the characteristics of the transition in Hungary - the largest number of foreign investors from Germany, and the leader of positive economic growth are the automotive industry. Thus, from 2010 to 2014, there was a complete restructuring of the higher education system in Hungary through a previous basic study of the German experience itself, given that the Hungarian system had previously been more based on theory and less on practice. This was followed by the promotion of studies, as we heard, in technical and technological, natural sciences and information technologies by state authorities. In short, the proposal for a law on copyright and related rights, I find it extremely important that we speak little about Chapter 7 — intellectual property. This is one of the chapters opened two years ago, in fact in June 2017, and the adoption of this law is a condition for closing this chapter, because it would not be bad if, apart from the more intense, faster opening of the chapter, we are working to close certain chapters and speed up the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia. For all of this, in the voting day, the SVM parliamentary group will support these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60163	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60164	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure that Serbia, first of all, has succeeded, not only in the area of the economy, but also in the area of education to move forward and to put the process of education practically on a healthy basis, following previously passed laws, the results of these laws, and creating space for them to get an even better effect. When we talk about this, I'm talking about this very law relating to the dual model of higher education studies and this shows one great seriousness of this ministry that has proposed to us, so we've also adopted a dual education system in high schools, followed, obviously, what results, what effects, what drawbacks it shows, and inadequacies are exactly something that would happen today not to talk about the Law on Dual Education in Higher Education, means college, high and higher studies. This is an indicator not only of serious thinking and planning in Serbia and creating an opportunity for people who will be able, not only to be ordinary workers for machines, but also of those who will be the bearers of work in companies that come, in companies that are established, but also of being able to actively engage in the process of speeding up certain patents, technological processes, processes, and even easier to lead to many of our young and educated personnel deciding to go into private affairs on their own. Of course, this in no way reduces the space for higher education. On the contrary, it only provides an opportunity for those who are really directly interested to put their knowledge, in a very practical way, to apply and benefit them in life, both them and the companies they work in, to raise them to a much higher level. Absolutely, and that is a tradition, so to speak, of Serbian education, when before, or a long time ago, many no longer remember schools, students in the economy, where there was much more work and knowledge in practice, we had good masters, we had good mechanics, good moguls, good paints, good technicians, where more schools devoted much more to that part of practical training and teaching, and this particular lack, by adopting this law, will be replaced. We will support this law because we think it is good for the Republic of Serbia, good for our students, good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For us from the Socialist Movement, whether it is in line with European tendencies, whether there are any new reasons to think about it, it is the least of the concerns whether our students will complete their knowledge through practice. We are much more to create conditions for them to do so here than to leave Serbia. I think that providing opportunities for knowledge and self-employed work so that they can be or respected in their own country more than they have ever been, when it comes to foreign and even domestic employers, as well as the ability to become employers and to be carriers of these jobs is certainly something that can affect the much greater number of highly qualified personnel remaining in Serbia. This will allow the few serious institutes, i.e. the labs that survived in 2012, and those sopranos failed to destroy, to be used properly for this practical training, because this law will create the possibility of teaching taking place, both in power plants, institutes, and in colleges themselves. Thus, it will be possible in a simpler way that what they still possess today, or some segments of the military industry, are used more adequately by higher education institutions. What is not the subject of today's agenda, but I really do have the need and the obligation to mention it, is about education, and we've already heard the argument that old students who are enrolled in pre-Bolonian, so I call them, programs, extensions, will be allowed to study for another two years. I'll be free and I'll suggest, given that this has yet to come to the Assembly's agenda, that the Ministry sits down in one serious way and discusss the problem from all sides, and one point of view can be the next. Indeed, and this law when it comes to the agenda for the two years I will support it, but I don't see why we keep doing it for a year, on two, on three, simply, I think it should leave it for the relationship between college and students, to create a place to regulate it in this way, and not to raise tension every other year about whether the old students, or enrolled in the old system, will have the opportunity to finish their studies. Of course, to finish, Serbia is not a rich country to give up so many higher education staff who will finish those studies tomorrow, next year, three years, five years, no matter how much time they spent studying. I think it's a lot less burden for colleges to allow them to pass their exams neatly than it would be a shame if their studies were interrupted right now. Indeed, I welcome the fact that the Ministry has defined it to be extended for two years, but I think it should be considered in two directions to do so or, to extend it to an unlimited period of time, or to create legal conditions during these two years that it is no longer a matter of special lex specialis, if we call them, the law, but to create legal preconditions to solve colleges individually, because this way we all meet, but some kind of selectivity may be necessary. In addition to being a law, this can really be just a request, and I think it would be appropriate, when it comes to those who have enrolled in the Bologna Study System as the first students of that. We have seen until now that the Ministry has had one good practice, since those people, which is countless times and observed, both in this home and in the various analyses that the Ministry only rules, are indeed someone who has come into a position that due to this experimental period can suffer the consequences today. It's just not good, I think they should find enough strength for the university to solve it themselves, and in that sense, since it can't be subject to regulation by law, I can only take advantage of this opportunity and appeal to both the Minister and the Ministry and the Republic Government, simply to meet those students and to create the preconditions for them to continue and finish their education by recommending, as well as earlier years. I really think that one kind of patience, of course not limitless patience, and not at all, but I think it's better that some who, I say, are a little joked with studies, whether they're according to the Bologna Declaration or they're old students, we can't because of them, those who, for objective reasons, are in a situation where they haven't finished their studies so far, to deny them the opportunity to end it in one way. In any case, as regards the set of laws that are on the agenda today, the PS-NSS-USS Parliament Club will fully support, and I ask the Minister that what I may have talked about today, perhaps even more than it would have been appropriate and common, consider and jointly find ways for both students to help finish their colleges and thus Serbia gets at least another ten thousand higher education staffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60165	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Now the heart has a folk MP, Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60166	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, higher education can be viewed as one of the most tropical sectors that exists in the economy of a country and in a society. So it's a sector that's very slow to change and it's very difficult to change, and whoever wants to change it has an extremely difficult job, because that system is by nature inert, employees are very spared from competition, and that's reality, not only in Serbia, so it's across Europe. It's not in the Anglo-Saxon countries, but their education system is significantly different from the continental one. So that's a fact. Higher education is one dinosaur, and any change as incrementally as it seems is something that needs to be set up, but it is always necessary to think about how this change is being implemented, where problems can be announced, and how likely it is that one system that is inert by nature wants to return to the state in which it is otherwise located. Dual education, at least as far as texting is concerned, is a good thing. For decades we have had a problem with higher education created by graduates who, when they appear on the labour market, suffer from a lack of sustainable skills, and a lack of sustainable skills leads to a very difficult employment or that when they get hired, they face something that is a deep internal disappointment, which is that even though you've finished your first job, you're not well paid, you're not God-knows-how valuable, and it actually takes years to learn the things you need on the market. Not only that, but you also need to forget the things that have taught you wrong, that is to forget things that serve nothing. On the other hand, dual education is a good thing, because it opens up the possibility that during education students can learn about what the needs of the economy are, what public sector needs are, because dual education is not just about the economy and that during the education process they come into contact with and acquire the skills they will need in building their careers. Because higher education can serve a small number of people, that they are upgraded in a way that involves one deep-indicator-humanist, individual developmental path, but the purpose of higher education is to acquire the skills that are sold on the market and that one who invests four years or five, out of his pocket or out of the Republic of Serbia's budget or through scholarships, after four or five years of his life invests, it starts to return to him after employment. That's the point of higher education, at least the way we in SMS see it. What else is important to point out? Although I believe that was not the intention when we planned to introduce a dual education concept in Serbia, which was still about three or four years ago, first started with secondary education, which is a more natural path. Meanwhile, we have come from a country suffering from a high unemployment rate, due to open new companies in Serbia, but also because of the mass eviction of the population of Serbia, to the position of a large opening of the EU market for our employees who do not now have almost any administrative barriers, to the position of slowly suffering from labour shortages. So basically high-level dual education is going to come across an open door, because companies are going to want to chase down the best students and try to keep them. So, although many who spoke two years ago that dual education will be a mechanism of exploiting employees, i.e. students who are not formal or employee, but are on professional training and drawing their rights from other laws, not the Labour Act, are in fact cheap labour, but the point is that there will be no. In IT at this point you have a situation that many large corporations, for example, like Microsoft and how they chase students and offer them very favourable scholarships, and "intership" and all other forms before permanent employment are such, especially, at the time they go to postgraduate studies, are such that, for example, scholarships for the best students are, so the size of the six-month average salary in Serbia. A similar situation will arise in other sectors, because we will become a country that will be deficited with many working profiles. It is a reality and in some ways this will go to meet it although I am sure that in 2000 and some, 2015, 2016, when we and the Swiss and Germans began our first thoughts on the changes in the nature of our education system, it was not the first thing we were thinking about, but it came together. Also, one of the disadvantages we face is that despite the introduction of Bologna, our higher education remains immutably inflexible and that it is rare for the real Bologna to have you with us, which is that you combine the courses from different colleges, that one year you end up on one, on the other, you go abroad for one year, go back and make a profile to create your specific profile and go to the labour market, I mean, only a few will go to the education market, who want professorial or teacher careers. Dual education will allow students who volunteer to apply for it. It should be pointed out, when said, there is no obligation to be in dual education, there is a possibility. Whoever wants can continue in the old ways of Bologna to be educated. So there is a possibility of building a flexible profile. So, that you don't have a situation when you're a student and you graduate from college and you show up in front of an employer and there's an old dilemma, and as your experience is, you say – so I don't have much experience, the employer says – we can't accept someone who doesn't have experience. Would you work with us as an intern for free, we are at great risk, and the student says, "Well, I wouldn't. Then after three or four attempts, those who aren't the best agree to such things. This opens the possibility of building a flexible profile of future people on the labour market, management or whatever. So, a potentially good thing. I speak in principle of what is potentially good. We'll talk about some potential minor risks when we talk in detail. I'm a concept like that. It's not bad. What's more, it's pretty good and it works all over Europe. Some of the questions that I would like to stress now are – which are mechanisms that will allow healthy competition among employers, i.e. the mechanisms of evaluation of employers, both by students, who will be in the model of dual education, as well as even the evaluation of the performance of employers in the dual education system, because only if we evaluate not only professors at universities, it is a very desirable thing, especially if the grades have some meaning, except that they say – this professor is a good professor, this is bad and everyone continues to behave the same. So, what is the mechanism to speed up competition among employers, precisely because we have publicly available information on the quality of skills that students who attend these programs receive? Also one question that remained also strong, in a way, incomplete. Article 31 of item 1 of point 4 says that job insurance is available to students in case the employer offers it to his employees. This is the lack of insurance in the workplace which otherwise exists, the employer may also contract insurance of one dinar and that insurance is not worth a piss bomb in the event of disability and the disappearance of the ability to carry out work at a certain percentage. Do you think it would be good if at least students who are in dual education, while passing a law that will allow for real insurance for all employees in the event of disability in the workplace, for students in dual education to be discriminated against in a positive way and not to happen in the event of student disability that they never fully enter the labour market or come out to a very limited extent? This is one question that Article 31 of point (4) does not fully resolve, but solves it at the principle level. So another thing is also said that the compensation should be minimum 50% of the salary. I think, for the best and most senior interests, that this fee will probably be bigger. Finally, what should be said, I would once again point out that we have this dinosaur, as well as all the countries in the world, that we have a dichotomy where private and colleges are, universities are much more flexible and offer programs that go more in the direction of the market, but they are resented that the programmes are trivial, although at the end of the day when it comes to the labour market, it shows that more knowledge that is not sustainable does not necessarily mean a higher quality in the market and that more sustainable knowledge is very helpful. Also, we have a dichotomy that on one side you have formalized universities with accredited programs, on the other hand you have independent providers of education services where people are perfected, pay places where higher amounts are paid than higher tuitions in higher education. People are happy to pay, and people who attend see a significant increase in their ability to earn. So all that introduces flexibility and introduces sustainable skills in education is a good thing. From this in principle we will say in the text group, dual education is a good thing, dual education is something that will benefit Serbia. Also, what we think is very important, although it is not about dual education, and it is mentioned as one of the goals of dual education, is the creation of an entrepreneurial society, that is, a society in which students and students, but they are now not the subject of this law, they are developing skills, entrepreneurial skills and entrepreneurial world observation, because it is the real world. In the real world, you have some entrepreneurs who solve some of the problems of society for certain products and services. On the other hand, if we are building dual education on the one hand, the logical upgrade would be to get education in Serbia soon, and that part regarding the development of entrepreneurial skills. Unfortunately, there is little to talk about in our education system, and even when spoken, it is quite inadequate. It's not a population that's as big as that population that deals with dual education, which is the subject of dual education, but it's a population that's valuable, because it leads society forward. It would be good to work on that segment at least as much as working on dual education for what by SMS you have support. On the other hand, we regret that we are no longer working on the introduction of critical thinking, solving concrete problems, and even simulation of entrepreneurship in regular education. Our students also come out of some colleges that should by definition be colleges that teach entrepreneurs that mild relationships do not have what entrepreneurship looks like in practice, not in a theory where they learn ten traits of entrepreneurs and similar things. So on this side, we believe that this is one logical rounding of the dual education system in Serbia. We believe that remarks concerning exploitation, the creation of a class of employees who work for multinational companies are not realistic remarks and are not good remarks and talk about the lack of a slightly longer-term vision of the educational system in Serbia. When it comes to the second law, I will just say in short, the Modern Serbian Party, as let's not say the most heartily favoured party of Serbia's European integration, but as a party whose Eurointegration of Serbia is the most important civilizational challenge Serbia, which will change Serbia completely, as probably never, except from the moment of building a modern Serbian state after the Serbian bourgeois revolution of 1804 to 1813. Of course we support the things that lead to the closure of Chapter 7. We will support any law relating to the closure of the Chapter, if the law complies with the requirements set out during the screening and the screening report. In this case, it is a situation and it is the biggest condition needed to close Chapter 7. It is a pity that it has waited so long, because that one country would show that it is on a good path, and especially Serbia, which has some additional requirements, due to some unfortunate past we unfortunately had and which is all away from us, but whose consequences and today, as I say, haunt us, besides the opening of new chapters, should be the prisons that are open, of course I always say temporarily, because all chapters are permanently closed when they all close at the same time and when it starts with ratification. It is something to support, as well as good reports, or criticise bad reports when they happen for key chapters, such as 23 and 24, which are mostly mediocre. So, on this side, it is good that a big step is being done in Chapter 7, which is not a key chapter, though, but I say, all that leads to the acceleration of Serbia's European path is what leads to Serbia's modernisation, the Europeanisation of Serbia and the creation of a society that is able to develop sustainablely and that some of the concerns and some of the risks that have followed us for a very long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60167	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word now has Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60168	It is true that mechanisms must be developed, as well as control of employers and insight of students and their perception of events. Something's starting and there's only one thing to think about. The law on so-called law should come to parliament very soon. November organization, which never existed in our academic community, and the students came here a little bit in the Ministry of Finance. I think it'll be in this House soon. So there will also be their role in the overall academic world and their interests, not only of how they organise at the university itself, colleges, high schools and academias, but also when we talk about dual studies, it becomes part of the system. What is also important is a unique information system in education, the ISP shortened, where each student, counting students, has its unique educational number. In the context of an analysis of everything that will happen when someone completes the education system and goes to the employer will stand and pay and under what conditions it works, it is also one of the indicators that we can successfully track. The choice of employers is also very important, because we're introducing a category of mentors here, it's proven to be good, we call it a teacher of pedagogical in secondary education, so that's something that has been shown in practice perfectly. When you go around companies where there's such a middle-level education model, you see that it's made a contribution. It means that these children, or students, are young people, there is someone who cares more about it. Of course, by choosing the beginning of better employers, because the better they're going to ask themselves to sign contracts, the contracts will be those places where we're going to specify all of this. We've legally predicted a minimum of 50% per year, but it can be arranged that in the first year less, because less will be spent in the company, so in the next year more, it's the average, but it's not the average minimum wage, it's the average salary earned in that company and it's the minimum. This protects this fundamental right with the competences of employers, taxes, contributions, etc. For more attractive places in the negotiations and in developing a feasibility study analysis, especially with companies from various technological professions, from Baden-Vietenberg province, we have this analysis of how much the German student in these companies gets and how much it's going to be about equivalent in Serbia, taking into account the cost of living, which the student will be pleased with, because it is not the employer's goal to save here, as it is said, no debauchery, no price, simply to realize that part of that company here is also as important as the one there in Baden-Vietenberg, then according to the cost of life he certainly has the savings, gets a good engineer or any other expert. The models of Swiss companies, i.e. banks when the dual models are in banking are also very well-designed, not to mention all agricultural, veterinary, etc. So it's a new model, and it's not left to itself and the case. The question is, how has the insurance of workers been carried out in any company so far? So, the student must share the fate of the same employee who will have the same attributes, and then it's the obligation not only of our resolute ministry that deals with this category, but of other ministries, and we have involved the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy and many others here in the course of the development of the concept of law. When it comes to critical thinking, all I have to say is that the story begins from below. We are already in the second year of reform cycles of primary school, the second and sixth classes entered the second grade of high school. So, this reform lasts for a total of four years, where learning and teaching are changed from mere transfer of content to just critical thinking, solving issues of inter-entities and competences and project learning that will go towards the outcomes of knowledge acquired. It's something most of the reform in Serbia, I keep saying, because it's still not seen, it's hidden somewhere. We've got to get down there. Of course, the academic world has a huge corps and autonomy, which many times comes in which you don't need or you don't see what you need. So I'm really trying to play on that wire where I'm not going as executive power to disrupt autonomy, but with good relations with the props, with their Senates, with all the other parts of the academic community, we have good relationships. We just introduced entrepreneurship two years ago as part of the subject matter of techniques and technologies at primary school. We potentiate student cooperatives, such as places, as children's companies opening in Serbia, it begins from a small, opening of haps, the opening of various other models will appear as some new types of thinking under the Law on the financing of higher education. We predict that companies are formed owned by students and professors, as spin-ofs, some other version, instead of just where professors only use some knowledge and inventiveness of students and simply later that company can also alienate and sell. This way we keep young people at the university, because they're very desirable then, they certainly have their own certainty about this company going in that direction, so it's not just a start-up model that we're counting on, but here I think we're, together with the academic world and with the student organizations, we're intruding into new waters. I agree with you that this may be just a good start and in some parts where people are more inventive, where they think this goes faster and better, but all colleges need to deal with this, especially in the field of organisational sciences, economic and other structures. Now I don't have time to give a lot of examples where it started happening, certainly on a much larger scale, that's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60169	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. Now the word is Maria Yevdzic. Here you go, Mrs. Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60170	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, has proposed a law on a dual model of study that is now on the agenda of this session, Unity Serbia sees as building a stronger connection between universities and institutions in which students will work after completed studies. We believe that the proposed law improves the quality of practical teaching, which will allow young people to acquire a theoretical knowledge in colleges, learn by working in the real sector and certain skills and skills that will enable them to work faster and easier after completing their studies or even start their own business, because this kind of education also develops a entrepreneurial spirit. What is the essence of this law? The point is that students learn the job and acquire the skills needed to improve their competences. In 2017, as you said in your presentation, Mr. Minister, we adopted the Dual Education Act in secondary schools and we heard that you were satisfied with its implementation and that the plan of the Ministry was to include as many students as possible in the following year. The main goal of this kind of education is to adapt faster to the process of work, more specifically, that children from secondary schools are ready for the challenges that accelerated modernisation and technology bring. For Unique Serbia, it is very important that the priority of your ministry, Mr. Sarčević, is to make quality education available to everyone, we know that this is not an easy job and that with the reform of education it is a few decades late and I want to commend the introduction of electronic journals, as well as the project to introduce fast internet, 10,000 digital classrooms in schools, and this has created a whole new standard in education, following of course accelerated technological development. A new education system has been announced for the following year, and you also mentioned a unique information system and with its application started in June, when the electronic enrolment of students and students in schools and universities started. The unique information system means assigning a unique educational number to every student and student and thus the state will be able to monitor students and students throughout their education. I may have come out of the topic of today's agenda a little bit, but I certainly didn't come out of the topic of education and the proposed law relating to dual education of students of Unity Serbia sees that the possibility of faster recruitment of students after completing their studies and we are sure that any employer would prefer to have personnel who, apart from theoretical knowledge, have practical knowledge. In public, it has been speculated that dual education represents the exploitation of student labour. I don't think that's true because of the reason I just cited, which I'm about to repeat. This education model acquires more knowledge and skills that will pave the way for students tomorrow to start their careers and removes the difference between theory and practice, because one without another can't. Just when I mentioned the connection between theory and practice, I had the opportunity to talk to two professors, Professor Popovic and Angelkovic from the state university in Novi Pazar and the Faculty of Pedagogue in Vranje. They conducted research aimed at looking at school staff opinions, how much initial education has affected the development of their professional competences and preparation for work and the performance of tasks expected of them in schools. Students were all graduate students from all universities who educate students to work in schools. The results showed that colleges provide a good theoretical basis and a wide range of academic knowledge, but not enough attention is seen to acquire practical knowledge and skills that are necessary for the professional performance of this job. It is concluded that professional competence of school employees cannot be developed primarily through theory, but it is necessary to improve the possibility of learning experienced and to increase the stay of students, future educators in schools. It is precisely this proposed law that supports the idea of better and stronger involvement of students in practical teaching, and when I mentioned students of future educators, it would in practice mean creating stronger links between colleges and host schools and that would certainly have a double profit. On the one hand, developing professional competence of students, and on the other hand improving professional competences already employed in schools. The purpose of learning with work is to build the skills of individual opportunities that are increasingly recognised as a valuable tool for the development of future graduates prepared for the successful performance of jobs in the workplace. Unique Serbia will vote in favour of the draft law on the dual model of study, because we want to fight together to provide young people with a better future, for young people to stay in Serbia after schooling to live out of their work and effort. We want to fight the white plague together so that schools and colleges have more and more students every year. As regards the second proposed law on regulated professions and professional qualifications, last year we adopted a Law on professions of special importance, which is in line with the National Plan for the adoption of real EU flows and provides for Serbia to adopt and propose a law enabling mobility, i.e. the free movement of labour within the EU Member States. The bill will allow automatic recognition of professional qualifications, professional experience and rights acquired for persons already exercising a certain regulated profession. This law will affect the opening of competition by entering a foreign labour force into a domestic market that will be more open. The offer of services will increase at affordable prices, which will certainly result in an increase in competitiveness. As I have noted in my presentation of Unity Serbia, that is, the JS Parliamentary Group will also vote for this proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60171	Thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has been made by the People's MP, Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60172	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, if someone in 2017 had some dilemma and doubt whether a dual education should be introduced, incorporated into our system, I think that today it is not and I am very glad that my colleague Stevanović has been very cleverly debated on this subject, as an economist, gave a really few quality suggestions, which further encourages me that we are on the right track and that dual education is a path that will allow young people to stay in this country and give them a chance to make good money in their country, their city, their place of residence and where they create families. This shows of course the statistics inexorably and they show the quality of this law and the good orientation taken by this government headed by the present, or the current president of the state and the complete government where we heard from the minister today, that seven 7,400 young children are defined or about 40% to 45% of all capacities of targeted schools in our country in 83 schools that about 600 companies participate and that about 40 profiles and more have been formed today for these people and students. What is most important is that even the students themselves, 75 to 90% said that they were satisfied and that after six months they found employment in their field of education, that 90% of them thought that learning in two places, which otherwise means dual education was something that gave them a really great chance to get a job right away and get quality knowledge, and that 60% of the employers said they were ready to hire students who worked with them right after this formal schooling. Of course, in 2017 when we passed this law and when we decided on dual education there were different critics, but the desire for dual education existed a little earlier, and that was what our economy pointed to and I think most in 2013. Since I come from Novi Pazar from the area that has very small companies that have been rotting and which today rot with a significant lack of qualified labour. However, only in 2016 with your arrival, one quality co-operation, with the PKS and, of course, a really strong initiation by the president and the complete government we entered in 2017 in the right way and passed the Law on dual education in secondary schools, and what we are doing today is just completing and completing the Institute of Dual Education and Higher Education, means in complete education, which is extremely important and the right way to develop education in our country. It's a good thing we didn't absolutely rewrite the models that we have, whose experiences we've adopted as a German, Austrian or Swiss model. We heard today what was happening to Hungary because they really managed to attract a lot of investments and move along a similar path, but I am glad to say that the Serbian dual education system has its authenticity, that it is defined by our economy that has its characteristics and specificities, primarily defined towards small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2017, which is very important to me to say, I had a great initiation and a constant call from local self-government from the local self-government that I come from, from Novi Pazar, from the Tutin municipality, and from the Sjenica municipality to support a law like this, to support dual education because local self-government in this education system also gets a significant place. They become a bond between education and economy, they participate in the creation of a registration policy, and for the first time they get some more concrete, tangible opportunity to participate in creating and helping local entrepreneurs. It's a really big thing and something that, even today, by supporting this law on higher education in the conduct of dual education in higher education, we do in the right way that, of course, it will not only help centres that have large colleges but also smaller centres like the city of Novi Pazar and its environment. I'm going to use an example that I've heard of the very visper of your colleague Mrs. Grujic, for example, the example of the wood industry, which is very instructive and I think it means a lot, so to explain to people, for example, from my neighborhood, the large flat furniture industry in Novi Pazar, Tutina and its surroundings is very successful and we had in the current system that in education in higher education institutions one for example, this profile for the wood industry, we had several different profiles, such as carpenter, wallpaper, lager, etc. However, in today's system, the dual education system, all of these profiles are sublimed into a profile called the furniture-making operator. So, young people, during their three-year school, going through dozens of plants, completely different from one in the production of flat furniture, other in the production of bathroom furniture, third in-house furniture, and so on, get a lot more skill and master a dozen of these, practical skills, get to know all the problems in these different specialties, and, of course, with the acquisition of much more skills within this profession, this kind of worker becomes very expensive on the market, much more valuable, much more aware, can even be dealt with by opening up his own company which is a big thing to start small businesses, in this case in the wood industry. The Social Democratic Party and Social Democracy as a policy orientation which I belong to and my political option at the centre of its operation sees workers, and therefore education and raising values in skills and the evaluation of one worker for us, the central theme and the central place, and that is why we want to very loudly and strongly support dual education in Serbia, because we see it as a way for our workers to be educated, generally educated, but also to acquire real skills that will raise value to them on the market and that will also make employers respect their work and to value them additionally. Therefore, my Social Democratic Party will support this law in a warm way, as we have supported the introduction of dual education. I also want to say I can welcome the orientation of this government and its prime minister and the president of the country itself, as well as all ministers and of course, that it is a cornerstone, i.e. I can point out three central places or three corners of stone that bind us to this coalition, which is the definition of European integration, which we want to modernise our country, the commitment to creating a modern society where the information society will be dominant in what this government insists. Behind us the third extremely important thing that this government is doing extremely well is reforming education by introducing dual education seems to be the best way. Therefore, we, as well as those of the additional laws proposed, will support this law, given that it is the laws necessary for the closure of Chapter 7 and the unification of our laws with European standards and European laws, and therefore we, these laws, really want to support them in a warm way. And I thank you once again for one quality piece of work, which this ministry has given in the last period especially in the field of dual education.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60173	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we were here two or three months ago discussing that Lex specialization for the Moravia Corridor, then I said that as a lawyer, I didn't see any worse text of the law in a formal sense, only in fact that here, I have to remind myself that at the time we claimed that this law was being passed to legalize the robbery of the republican budget of 300m euros than the actual "Bechtella", and then Zorana Mihajlovic and some MPs from the authorities were seriously criticising us, attacked us, I could say so, they claimed it wasn't true, but here six, seven days ago, it happened. Of course, we'll talk about it some other time, but because of that formal appearance, let me say the law because these two laws, especially this one on the dual model of studies on high education, are serious competitions to this so bad bill proposal. Before I say anything about either proposal or the other, I want to draw attention to you, Minister, that it would be really good for you and the educational system and the state of Serbia to listen a little more to the MPs of the SRS and to react to some things when we distract you, because we, I suppose you noticed, are really doing this seriously, and when we tell you that something is going on somewhere, then it's so safe. We told you months ago that we questioned, of course, the purchase of that electronic diary software, the set up tenders and so on, but now we're talking about something else. Electronic diaries, ministers, still in Serbia there are no conditions in many schools for electronic journals, and now we ask you best on behalf of all of these teachers who have addressed us to see all the directors to send people to the field, many schools are just pulling out cables for the Internet, in many schools, now I'm going to tell you an example that one school has 55 teachers and five laptops and that someone who is in charge of training teachers to use an electronic diary won't do it anymore because it's first said that this training will be paid to those people because they work past hours and now the information has arrived from the Ministry that it won't be paid anyway, and of course, how do you make someone work after working hours if you don't pay him that. Then what's going on? Five laptops and 55 teachers, the first five to be ambushed by these laptops, someone learned to do it, someone just learns it, someone needs less time, someone else's absence, and then they create nervousness, maltenes every day fighting in the classroom, and then you have directors who say they don't understand that there's a teacher, and they don't have a personal laptop, and they don't understand why that laptop doesn't bring it to work. This is just amazing. And then what happens? It happens that teachers need proper data to write on paper, and then those papers bring home, and then, because they can't, say, if they don't have a laptop, and they don't have a laptop or a computer in the house, but they have that home computer, so because they can't exactly go to school every day with a travel bag to carry that computer and install it, then they do that job in their own house. Minister, can you imagine how many mistakes, failures will occur, and God's abuse when such things are done on home computers? Is it just gonna be that teacher, whether his husband or his wife, whether it's mom or dad, whether it's brother, sister, child, and so on? You simply didn't secure those initial catches. To be clear, let's not be misunderstood, as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, digitization everywhere that, catching steps, going in step with time and modern and modern achievements absolutely, but there must be some other conditions, some preconditions that might actually be realized. Yesterday, it said in the paper that there's a school that can't work yet because they don't have basic hygiene conditions secured. The Internet is as far away as heaven and earth. We've also turned your attention to textbooks. You know that we spoke and, above all, we informed the public that our textbooks are being printed in Croatia, that there is an end to history, etc. You've told us here that it's changed, that teachers can choose textbooks, etc., but I still have to tell you the situation on the ground. Someone from the ministry, does either you or one of your associates, inform the directors that they shouldn't change, I'm not saying that orders, but informs that they shouldn't change the publishers so far because, of course, someone is dealing with those publishers from Croatia and someone is taking money to use those books in our schools and then the directors say – if the teacher says I still think that we should change publishers from this year on, then you know what the directors say? Well, you can do whatever you want, but if there are any problems from the ministry, and there may be, I'm not behind it, you'll have to deal with it yourself, or you'll have to solve it with the ministry. So you have a big problem with school directors, Minister Sarčević. They keep those functions tight, don't let them get away from it and step all the way in front of them. You really need to take this team seriously if you want schools to function in that technical and technological sense. When it comes to old students, it's already scheduled for a session where we should discuss it, but in meeting that session, Minister, listen to us. Pull the bill, get it back to the government, and don't limit anyone once, two, three, five years to graduate from college. We'll talk about this wider and more when that law is on the agenda, but you have no right. No one has the right to prevent anyone from what the Constitution allows. Everyone has the right to go to college that they want. Why didn't he finish it on time? The point is that the one who studies regularly is studying the cost of the budget. The one who doesn't study regularly, if he's willing to pay for his studies by the day of trial, whether he didn't graduate from college because he formed a family, so he didn't have the means to pay for the studies, so many of them came to us, said he's got weak eyes, he's got various other people's diseases, so some of them stopped them... There are people, simply, who are studying, who want to study from a hobby, from a whim, from whatever they want. No one has the right to deny someone to study, pay tuition, study as long as they want and can't be left to universities, to the ministry, or to any individual. There must be conditions for anyone who enters studies under a specific programme to complete the same programme, even after 50 years. It's just, it's the right thing to do. We came out with a press release before the storm came up, let's say, in public. We warned you in a statement that you had no right, what you said, that you would no longer extend that deadline and then one man showed up, and said that you still needed that deadline to extend and then you changed your mind quickly. Don't say that, Minister. Watch the law, watch the Constitution. Pull that bill so we don't waste our time again on Tuesday, when the session is scheduled, and that it's waiting for us again in two years. You know, we spend years back every year discussing this law and traumating some thousands of people who haven't finished colleges for reasons we shouldn't be interested in. We are also telling you from the authorities that you are doing everything according to EU orders. That's what we said to those before you, so you're telling us that it's not true, that everything is done in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, in the interest of one of our better, nicer, fairy-tale lives, and then some Palmer, sitting down, the one who says he's going to boycott the elections, and then they're going to order them to sit together, and then that Saint Fabrizio comes, and he orders you, the congregation majority, that he has to change the work in parliament, etc., and then that Kukan comes and what he's called. It was cowardly to watch from above as the MPs stood at the door, as behind closed doors were spoken, so a group talked to him, and these as students waited outside for them to come in, etc. Why am I bringing this up? Because you are, in fact, and now this is not just you, Minister Sarčević, this is for all regimes from 2000 to today, all of which have been subordinated to EU orders. When we Serbian radicals tell you that the Rules of Procedure are wrong, you don't care, when we say that you can't do such an amendment, you don't care, etc., and when someone else tells you, then you can and then you tell us that everything you do, I repeat, you work in the interest of this nation, our country, and then we had a bill on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. Minister Sarčević, this law should not be said for one simple reason – because this is an example of your obedience, your humility, your servile relationship with the EU and the people should know that we have received to discuss the bill, that the majority of the assembly will adopt this law in six, seven, eight days, and that it writes here – we are passing a law that will apply when Serbia enters the EU. When? Never. Since Serbia will not enter the EU, we are passing a law that will never be applied. Now, that this law is the best in the world, what good do we have from it when it won't apply? So total illogicality. To get some plus in some order of moves with the EU in these chapters, etc., we are wasting valuable time. Instead of discussing much more serious things, things that are of interest to both the people and the state, we waste time talking about something... I repeat, it's the best law in the world, it's no use to him, because it won't apply. Now, the most important, dual model of higher education studies. It's the one that's so bad that they're applying that Zoran law. This is the law, and the public should also know, by which, when adopted, no one has to, a law that speaks of dual education, where students do not have to study in dual education, where employers do not have to conclude contracts with students on dual education, where higher education institutions are not obliged to conclude contracts to send students to that dual education. No one has any obligation under this law. It's only mandatory for the Chamber of Commerce to run the register of those contracts. What does the Chamber of Commerce have to do with this? If you want and if you're honest, all of you in the view that we need to ensure that people remain in Serbia, both educated and uneducated, simply, that people don't come from Serbia, you have to do this on a different law. With this law, and if some students accepted to study under these conditions, academic education was completely neglected. It has been a problem years ago, which in Serbia people are formally educated and essentially remain uneducated. These are the people who are most easily manipulated. Such people with this formal education correspond to those EU officials, who among them are looking for some they can manage and who in Serbia will do what they are asked to do. If we truly want people to stay in Serbia, then it's done so, Minister, which is done here with the Chamber of Commerce and the whole government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, when you bring in those foreigners you pay to come to Serbia, so give at least something good from them to stay in Serbia. Why in those contracts do they have no obligation to hire trainees? Why don't you ask them to scholarship those students? Well, if someone gets a scholarship from some serious firm in Serbia, and the contract commits that when they finish their studies to work at that firm, normally, then they will stay there for at least five years and if someone works for five years at a solid firm for a decent salary, then he will not think of leaving Serbia. If he won't come back, he'll be obliged to return that scholarship to whoever gave him the scholarship. The duty of a traineeship, so a traineeship serves to learn a job. If you work for a year with a college in a company, in some institution, in a public firm, in a state administration, depends on what you've finished, and if you pass every segment of that institution or that firm where you've been employed as an intern, you'll be an expert, so you'll be working as an intern for a reduced salary, because the trainee's salary is normally lower and if you pass a trainee's exam, you'll necessarily stay in that firm. Under this law, Minister, there is no obligation of an employer, and if someone decides to help that someone there, to work at that company, that firm, that employer has no obligation to keep him at work. So it's not true what you said someone would automatically stay at work because they're going to be educated in the dual model of education. This is even worse and even more dangerous than when it comes to high school education. We were against that law when it came to high school education and you didn't bring us the results of that dual education here. You said how many. We also told you when this law was talked about, it's tempting because some children, who may be extra talents like those of Mathematical High School, who brought eight medals to Serbia two days ago, may have such children who will go to this dual education, that is, through that dual education, because they get some money there, because parents don't have the means to finance their studies. So, you're wrong about the approach, and the dual education, that's how we've been praised by the Bologna system in time, which even in Bologna doesn't apply, and this dual education, which you're now presenting to us, let's say, Australia, which has prestigious universities, which I don't think is, I don't think, but these are simple facts, the best place for higher education, that Australia has abolished dual education. They have certain software studies for information techniques, for management, for this or for that, but academic education cannot endure. Through this law, we repeat, and this is the biggest observation that we put on, academic education in Serbia disappears, from buying diplomas, from counterfeiting, to date this formal humiliation and formally, in fact, you're legalizing that people are going to finish the studies that are being defined for this. We sincerely hope that there won't be those who seriously want to study and who are serious academic citizens, however hard it is for them to study materially, I believe that they will not accept this way of studying because they will want to preserve the dignity of their future academic title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60175	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60176	Well, I certainly don't want to talk about the way to the EU and whether someone likes the dual model or not, it will show time and what young people choose. I am obliged to say for the public, when it comes to e-data, that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is in charge of equipment and training. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications is for the network, and I cannot speak on behalf of the other minister until the story of the network has arrived. It is certain that optical cables are being placed in developed countries and longer than we do, but in the summer, this waffei model will also arrive where it is technically impossible to do so so quickly. The law doesn't say that people have to work electronically. They can also work in a classic way, until conditions are created. It's a very small number of schools. People go out in the field, and since there's 10,000 digital classrooms, then this includes doing it. What's saying is they're not going to be training, they're not training, they're entering data. Once, when this was at the beginning, then people asked that on behalf of colleagues of everyone who didn't know they were bringing it in to everyone and getting through the coefficient. There's no need. In the working list of each student in education, there's pedagogical documentation, one hour a week's work, four hours a month, so, times a year, it's enough hours to get someone into the diary instead of hand. If we say so, I've been head of school for 30 years, I've been different. If there's five laptops and 50 teachers, then there's a week five days and there's two shifts. There's, uh, whoever's working, the schedule of the class, that knows when teachers take breaks, when they don't crash in the middle of the night. It's even entirely sufficient resources to negotiate that. Not all of them are going to be hijacking the laptop for the same minute. And if a colleague beat up and stayed alive, I don't know what else to say, that you didn't bring yours, he's not fit to be head of school. And let me tell you, I'm not happy that I inherited a lot of bad school principals. There's an external evaluation, I'm sure 40% of them are on the verge of whether they should do it. Training started, as you know, and licenses, according to the law we adopted here. The best school directors are the ones who have an external rating of four, since it's no bigger, according to that tool that our Office of Quality is worth. The first cycle of five years is over. These people were offered quick training and license last year. Even 30% of them fell. Now, since September, they've all started training, because it's not right for me to give them a license where more than half will fall. So it's true and it's something you don't need to embellish. That's what we have to solve, and I think we're working it out. Again, it can't be a big system overnight. When it comes to the fama about the textbook publishers, there is a recommendation that came from the Ministry of Schools for the fact that when we changed the Law on textbooks, the 2015 law promised three years of succession. The law was amended after two years, and the parents were promised four years' inheritance, right. You have that after a year, in law school can see, to see that someone didn't cheat, to go to a worse publisher, to go to a third party. So it was just a suggestion. Several times there have been meetings and it has been repeated that the law is on the side and the schools and publishers to decide for themselves, but they will justify themselves with parents why they change, if they have no great reason. That story about whether there's corruption, there's for sure, but what mechanisms are we going to find out that someone changed the publisher, arranged and took the bribe? Well, only if they report it. We will indirectly, through a unique information system in education, have those other long-term criteria whether through the expected success of students, and using that literature, will achieve the desired goal or outcome. If it's not achieved, then it's also something from the indicator that something was wrong. The third thing that needs to be done, I think it's going to happen quickly, and that's the home major publisher of the Bookshop to get on its feet, to reconstruct, to get into the market with full capacity, in a modern way. By the law we've just passed, we've abolished the censorship, otherwise it'd be out of the game. We have opened the Centre for low-cost textbooks, which the Institute is doing and secure money that is given in advance, so that exactly the opposite is happening, and what comes from all sides is the evil languages largely, for training is the competent Institute for improving education and education. There are four levels of training when it comes to digital competences, standards have been adopted for that. So, the lowest level of data input into the E-log, then the next one goes to teaching information, to use IT through a regular subject that teaches in specialized departments. I wish all the students were at the math school in Serbia or their professors, but it's not even in the world and not everyone's gonna do math. Indeed, the labour market, the needs of society and the community are multiple. There are many good examples that someone went through work, so he perfected, doctored a number of other things. The legislator is obliged, or a resolute ministry, to create an environment where each one of them will find what he aims to learn and work. You have been accepted that third-year students of the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Belgrade and their professor Markovic in Hilandar had the picking of grapes, vineyards and all the processes around further wine products. It was their student practice, they did fantastic work. There are many other examples. Children's chemists were now the first in Russia and a series of them. Our veteran students were champions of Europe in their fields. Thank God we have smart kids. This is where I say again what I said about secondary education. This is a choice, but this time we're not talking about any suspicious places that haven't proven suspicious when it comes to secondary education. I'm sorry, the MT clusters didn't come here because we don't have quality workforce, no, but because we have a fantastic Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade that has an excellent airway department, and also a Peter Drapshine, which is a top school, in the class of Mathematical High School for what they're doing, so we've already adapted schools in Pazova and Panchev to these conditions, if our goal is to have our children working, and certainly this is what we're talking about the process and some of the paths where we absolutely measure this with six cantars, and then we're only gradually introducing it into our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60177	Thank you, Mr. Charcévich. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60178	It's a shame, Minister, that at first you said you didn't want to talk to the MPs about these two bill proposals, especially this dual model of higher education studies. It's a shame that you should all have the awareness that there's no greater damage to one country than the lost generation of high school students in the education system. It's a lot less damage and all the privatisations that were, all the lost jobs and these now wrong investments, bringing these foreigners to whom you sell a place to work in Serbia. It's all easier to correct than it's impossible to correct lost generations in the education system. You're more and more moving towards it, and unfortunately, it's also long gone and it's already felt. Look at your ministry, compare the officers, the ministers you found at the ministry, I hope you haven't fired them, with those who are now coming, who are just getting a job. Unfortunately, half-educated people come and something serious has to be done. You let go of dual education, you let go of what you're going to get, so someone who's going to be a teacher tomorrow who doesn't have enough level of academic education, learns something else there, we don't mind, but it learns when college's over. It takes an academic citizen, a man who graduates from college, to have general knowledge and general culture and general education. That in Serbia, Minister, unfortunately is no more and we all see it in our environment. We end up with primary school kids who don't know how to write and read both letters, end up singing, can't read. So these are facts and you have to work to eradicate these things, to return to essential education and education generations because of the future of the Serbian state, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60179	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60180	Just one suggestion. In my cabinet, in ministry management, of 20 people working in different positions and sectors, ten people have the highest academic titles, regular professors at the university, and two are senior researchers at institutes. So, the woman who runs science is the 20th best researcher in Serbia, Marina Sokovic. Sasa Lazovic is from the Institute of Physics, one of the best researchers and not to list any further. So I'm really with a team of people that I brought in extremely pleased. One number of people I had from the earlier period are there anyway, they stayed, and one number of people had to change, like every time you came and you wanted to do something, but what's important is, in three years and stronger, everyone had a chance and I belong to people who only do teamwork. My colleagues know that well. It's not self-will, it's just the pace I'm adding, but I'm with a team that I'm very happy with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60181	The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60182	I didn't, Minister, have any objections in that regard to your cabinet's work and I can believe everything you said, but that's exactly what this is about. You're, you're saying, bringing in a team of people, experts, university doctors, professors, these are people who've been finishing colleges, master's studies and doctoral studies on some better system than this. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking to you about the fact that among many of the now formal doctors, science can't be found by experts. That's what this is about. I repeat the third time, there is a lack of academic education, so look at this room, at your job, in your environment, among friends, wherever you want, compare the level of those former studies and these present ones, on each case individually, and there you have to agree. That's what we're talking about. We've had to start since primary school. Do you believe it's the first time you've heard a kid finish primary school and scream when he reads? If you've never heard that before, and I'm sure it is, it's happening, but that's what we talked about when basic education and education were on the agenda and we can talk about it again. It has to be a fundamental and systematic thing to change. This is some makeup modelled by an EU, some EU countries. By the way, do you know that in Germany, which is a cradle of dual education, it is seriously considered that dual education in higher education is discontinued precisely because they realize that they are getting some kind of expert, narrow professional, without academic education and academic knowledge? So those who actually started this, they're thinking about ending it, and we're doing something now, so we're going to introduce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60183	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60184	Thank you. Dear Mr. Arsic, dear Mr. Sarcevic and the other members of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS about the proposals of the two laws that are subject to today's consideration. First of all, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Law on the dual model of higher education studies and the Law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. I'll try to say something more about the Double Model Study Act in higher education. For us, in the SPS, the adoption of this law is a continuation of education reform, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. a competent ministry and a major step forward in bringing the education system closer to the needs of the labour market. In fact, it is not necessary, of course, to bring the discussion of higher education or the conversation on education in general in this esteemed home only to the attitude of education and labour markets, because the role of education is far broader, from the point of view of the level of society, but today we are talking about the Law on dual education, so it is up to us to turn a little closer and say something about this aspect of the educational process. The government has already taken a good step forward when the Duo Education Act was passed, when secondary education was also covered. A step forward was also some solutions from the Law on Higher Education, above all I think of the Council of Employers, because then a normatively arranged presence of employers in higher education institutions and hence the door for stronger labour market binding, i.e. economy and higher education. It should not be forgotten, it should not be overlooked that the problems of connecting the educational system and the businesses of the Republic of Serbia have lasted for three decades, since the mid-80s, when the economic crisis began, not to mention sanctions since 1992, and then robbery privatisation after 2000. The economy of the Republic of Serbia has almost been destroyed and in recent years, thanks to the great activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the economy has again stepped on its feet and is now truly a good basis for connecting the educational process and the labour market. In fact, so far, we have had one practical situation that businessmen have always said that graduate students or high school students come out with knowledge that is unnecessary for the needs of the company. When we asked them what they were looking for or what they were offering, or how they would want to get involved in the educational process, and to get that feedback of their demands that they could then incorporate into the education system, then we remained mostly unresponsive. Now we have a series of solutions in this law that simply connect employers and higher education institutions. I think the government has taken a big step forward with this. She made a big step, i.e. the Ministry and, figuratively speaking, the Ministry has now thrown a glove in the faces of employers and invited them to form together with high education those personnel that will be needed for the development of the economy. The government has already done a lot in the economic part, creating an environment for this integration. Here, I mention, a few days ago, data from the Financial Times were released that the Republic of Serbia did more than any country in the world on foreign investment in 2018, compared to its GDP. It mentioned 107 projects of foreign direct investment, about $5.8 billion and said in that article that the Republic of Serbia has approximately made the attack 12 times larger than is expected from its economy and size and that there has been a constant growth in foreign investment since 2015. Objectively, it is this economic dimension that favours the introduction of the Law on the dual model of studies in higher education. Of course, that law would not be possible, nor would the Middle Education Act, unless it has a high-quality economy, but when you have this kind of data that exists and you have one upward line of economic movement in our country as it has been for the last few years, all that this government has done, then it's perfectly logical to pass a law like this. Now a model of dual education law is passed in higher education, and I have already mentioned what was done before. In fact, if I understood this law because I noticed that so far many debaters have not said or said anything about the content of the law itself, to see what the content of this law is and why it is so quality, because it is more about dual education and meaning with or without positive effects, but not to mention the content of the law itself. In fact, when you look at the content of the law itself, you can see that it is at the centre of this law, I have to remind and say, a triangle that makes up a student-employee-high school institution and that the main goal of an employer, i.e. a higher education institution and an employer, is to get as high as possible competences, knowledge, ability, skills and attitudes and that this is the essence of the whole educational process. Of course, in order to achieve the objective set out in this law, the employer’s role is also described in detail. One side of the dimension is that the higher education institution in its programme will write the content of this programme, but it is extremely important how the employer will participate essentially in the development of study programmes. A good balance was made in the structure of active teaching classes, 450 hours a year teaching about lectures, exercises and other forms of active teaching, and 450 lessons through study, through work. It's important to point out the two elements of this whole law that somehow stayed in the other plan. Of course, everyone interprets the way they want to, but they show that those institutions, it's a volunteer element, those higher education institutions that want to work on themselves and who think about the future, think about young people and have ties to the economy, have study programs that are related to the economy, have a developmental character, they will, of course, try to find partners and help them with the Council of Employers that have in the structure of their institution. Of course, they'll look for others. This volunteering has been shown not only that a higher education institution can choose a partner, to make a model of dual studies in higher education, but that volunteering is also present with students. Students have that principle of volunteering. If they want to, they'll sign up for a dual education model and they'll do it all through the competition. A very important part of this law is the relationship between the higher education institution and employers and the relationship between employers and students. The law here is precise, a legal basis has been established that gives security to all parties in this process, because in my opinion, the Ministry has handled all these matters properly. It helps a student feel secure, that his only activity is to learn and gain quality knowledge, to improve his competences. Article 19. The law on dual model studies in higher education is provided that if certain circumstances arise, the student can continue education at another higher education institution, but it is also, if the programme continues in some higher education institution, since we ourselves know that it is related to the very existence of higher education institutions, that there is an objectively one process. I also think about the accreditation processes and everything that makes up an integral part of higher education, but a provision has been established that provides the possibility of protecting students in the event that certain problems arise with the employer. This is referred to in Article 17 paragraph 4 of this Act, where it is said that certain technological, economic and other changes can occur in employers, and then it is quite logical that the student should be protected. It is good that the law contains this provision, or, when a higher education institution terminates a contract with the employer, in case the employer does not comply with all those provisions that the law provides for for teaching in that section that takes place there. It is also important that a member of the 21st law, provided for all obligations and provided for the material and financial security of students. It is predicted that the student can receive from the employer and the costs related to accommodation, for nutrition in the dormitories, transport costs, but the question of compensation, at least 50% of the basic earnings employed in the same or similar jobs, and then, compared to the year of the study, a certain graduation was made, which is quite logical, because the first year student does not have the same knowledge and skills or the same skills that the employer acquires, compared to the third and fourth year students. It is important to mention that the student is able to acquire these competences with the employer, to improve them, and that is a very important role of mentor in the employer, the quality of the mentor and he should conduct it through those practical activities that take place in the employer. Finally, if it can be said in the end, since it is not the end of the debate on this law, there is one very well-established law enforcement by the two ministries, the labour ministry and the education ministry. I am pleased that the Ministry of Education has made it very clear and precise that the objectives provided for in this law. Minister, without intending to change the content of this law, I think you have left out one goal, which is achieved by this law, I have no intention of making an amendment, but it is very clear that this law, when applied, will achieve one that is very important for higher education. I was free to formulate it, which is to improve the quality of higher education institutions and their competitiveness in the European space of higher education and other areas dealing with issues of the quality of higher education institutions. Why did I mention this? It is undeniable that the application of the Law on the dual model of studies in higher education will improve the quality of higher education institutions. It's absolutely undeniable. If you look at the way higher education institutions are valued, in the European space of higher education and around the world, then you will see that this relationship with the economy is one of the very important criteria. I am fully convinced that with this law, we will raise the quality of our education system in different quality lists. Dear Mr. Minister, when we talk about Shanghai and other quality lists, we talk about citation all the time. I'm glad, I'm very glad that President Vukic, which is you, what the Government has done to help, to say, that as many researchers get involved, to improve, to financially, and in other ways to create conditions that as many scientists participate in this educational teaching process as possible, and that, of course and through citation, the quality of the education system that we have. But, by a little, consciously or unconsciously, I've heard many professors talk about it, but the public thinks they're not sufficiently familiar with all the criteria that are mandatory when ranking higher education institutions, because if they were then they'd see how well we actually have a quality education system, but because of the criteria that exist, we're simply not in the place that belongs to us. For example, one of the criteria was, of course, how many Nobel Prize winners were represented in higher education institutions. I have data from a few years ago that, say, 70% of Nobel Prize winners were among the 35 first universities to be classified on the Shanghai University List. Tell me, which university outside, shall I say, the Anglo-Saxon speech area manage to engage on a material basis or who can even get a Nobel laureate from the field of mostly natural sciences or economics? Other sciences somehow stayed out of the way. Then one logical question arises, are these universities weaker than these? No, they're not. They're also high-quality, but there's some order of things in this academic world, whatever it means, and then simply those colleges are kind of privileged. Or, the same applies to the possibility of their engagement. You know, for a university like ours, which is located in a country that is in transition, which is otherwise very high-quality, you can hardly hire a Nobel laureate because it requires certain material costs and there's no college or university that could be enough, without having to hold on for an hour to say it's a greeting character, but it's not really a point. Not to mention the citation, the quoting of course in the field of natural sciences, that's quite logical. But we also have quotes in the field of scientific workers and researchers in the field of social science. To what extent are small countries, countries in transition interesting in magazines so that an article in these areas can be published to a sufficient extent? It's another problem that overcomes the debate in this law. What I am pleased with is the fact that this law improves the co-operation of Serbia's economy with higher education institutions, and then we too will be able to say that this link between business and higher education has its place, so I hope we also mention some relevant statistics. Mr. Minister, I'd like to draw your attention to another, in my opinion, important element of this law. You're both on the board and on the content of this law talking about what, roughly, I would say, the areas for which this law will be most interesting. These are primarily techniques, engineering sciences, information technologies, health care, economics, law-based finance and management. But I'm fully convinced that even social colleges in the field of socio-humanist sciences and colleges in socio-humanist sciences have a chance. Of course, if I don't mention the Academy of Professional Studies, they have a huge chance here, and I also know about Baden-Virtemberg's co-operation that's been there for years, but I'd like to get to know you that the colleges of social science have one chance, and they're actually going to have a great chance, and I think a good example or a basis for what I've made for this claim, I'd like to introduce you to what makes you the Faculty of Security. Within... The project is attended by almost all Serbia's security colleges. In addition to the introduction of teaching, a number of studies and modules, taken over from European universities and analysed the possibilities to create a knowledge network, so as to form a national simulation centre, to bring through it all the resources available in Serbia on the security simulation plan and to provide services at regional level. The centre will be distributed with major laboratories at the University of Belgrade Security Faculty, the Military Academy and the Criminal Police Academy. In addition to the two software that is already being used, whose capacity expansion is under way, there will be eight professional simulation software and three auxiliary software. The hardware next to standard equipment includes getting drones to practice. Softwares allow simulations of cyber attacks, fires, floods, traffic accidents, terrorist attacks of all kinds and scope, simulation of hooligan attacks compared to the death of all current security risks. Within the project, at least five simulations and at least so many exercises with more than a hundred participants must be developed over the next year and a half. I have deliberately mentioned what colleges in the field of socio-Communist sciences are doing, but it is related, Mr. Minister, to the provisions of the law, and it seems to me to be with Article 6(3), where it is said that higher education institutions are excluded from members, in addition to relationships with the employer, with the consent of the higher education institution, that some of the learning can also be done through training centres and another legal person who performs training. I think this is a great solution, because then it gives an opportunity just for projects like this from socio-humanist sciences that won't be able to maybe find a suitable company where a student or a number of students of socio-humanist sciences would hire for their own needs. Because we have the logic that dual education is no longer related to production, direct production of natural science. But the example I cited absolutely shows that there is room for the other side and only from the college initiative, let me say, will depend, as I would say, to what extent they will be presented and what quality these offers will be sent to employers, and I don't think employers can remain silent on this offer, that they have to answer. I look forward to all those positive effects, because I mention once again, one of the principles of this law is volunteering. Now the government has done a lot, the Ministry has made a great law, we're adopting it in a few days, and then it's the next step on the employers. They will have to say, that is, to accept the given hand and give students the opportunity to improve their knowledge. After this, no one will be able to say that students do not have practical skills, that they have competences insufficient, that their knowledge, ability, skills or attitudes, let me say, are less valuable, because then that will be the untrustworthy position of that employer. If he wants to co-operate with the higher education institutions of the Republic of Serbia, this law gives him that opportunity. We will, of course, vote in favour of the adoption of this law, because we think it is an excellent law, which not only improves the education system, but also helps the economy of the Republic of Serbia in its future development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60185	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60186	I'd just like to refer to a part of my colleague's discussion of the predecessor, and it's about the development of social sciences, and to give a single statement, one good news, so, a call for PROMIS has been completed, it's a call from the Science Fund and some expected 200 grants that were to be allocated to nearly 600 young people. What's very important, over 20% from the DH field, which is totally good. Now if we analyze, except for whether we have or we don't have a Nobel laureate, so we can't have it, we're a small country, and the other thing is whether we can hire, so we can't do that either. And is that the only criterion and way to measure success, so you know it's not, because what the public needs to know, it's measuring science at the university. But Serbia has 11 institutions at Belgrade University and over 78 institutes are not at the university and are engaged in science. The overall insight of our science is not thus placed. The employer's opinion is one important opinion in the context of technological development when this product learns to further produce, but what is very important, older colleagues who are already at the end of the working century, as Professor Radenovic and others at the end of their careers, had no one to inherit them, was not an ambience. You had an older project cycle that lasted too long, which was a way of surviving for many, but that's why in this House we've passed two new laws on the Science and Science and Research Fund, where through this second we've provided a safe and lasting salary to all people who do research work, and through the Fund the possibility of them becoming competent, to show their values through what is successful. But now there's an international evaluation of scientific papers, and it can't just sit on the project and last faster. So this will encourage the scientific community and young people, whom thank God in Serbia has a great deal and are very interested, because every science and technology park is fast to fill. All this is done is a new design, but if this was done in continuity, if it hadn't been for the destruction of the economy, if anything had been preserved, etc., it would have happened faster. It's a great collaboration not only with different partners on the bilateral. For example, last month I was in Belarus, a fantasticly strong country when it comes to both countries' respect and serious science. We with Chinese and Russian partners also have phenomenal relations, especially with the People's Republic of China, where we will work a lot on robotics and artificial intelligence projects next month. So it's a series of newspapers, but it's now being designed in some way. You've noticed here that some kind of benefits that the law makes are also a place where the university is better seen through dual studies outside. The arrival of employers here, the serious ones, who want to open development and research centres, first they watch it, first they go to the Chamber, then they go to me. So it's not like we're around that space anymore, and that's why we're doing it synchronised. So, along with the Chamber, the labour market, along with everyone, and I think this is a good way to develop. Indeed, Hungary may be one of our best examples, it's close, it hasn't gotten far, but in this space it's done a lot. I would agree with my colleague, Žarko, that many other colleges, especially various kinds of social sciences, can see and find themselves here. The economy is inexhaustible. But we also need to redefine the character of secondary vocational education within standard and dual. It's a big strategy, because this old time is running out a little bit, by the age of 30, a huge circle of people are already involved at the beginning of this story, because we need to see what developed countries are doing, where we belong, and what kind of education and science development strategy we're going to have in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60187	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60188	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I think it is a good thing that, the chairman, you allowed us to go a little further into the debate, not only to stick to these legal solutions, when it comes to today's session, because the topic we are talking about today is the result of all those changes that the state of Serbia has experienced from 2012 to today. As Serbia experienced in 2012 and faced with a major budget deficit and maltene failure at that time and the problem of paying for salaries and pensions, it is certain that at that moment and education has experienced a big problem to find a solution to go one other way, to keep all people, when we talk about the university, to keep the students who are simply enrolled for the first time in college, and to bother that they really end up here most schools and that when they finish those schools go abroad, they may go to that world, see what it looks like there when they finish their studies and return to Serbia. Indeed, at this point in 2019, we are now talking about an investment environment, an economic environment in Serbia that governments and those in 2012, that is the sky and the country. Serbia has been through a very difficult period of economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, but also major changes. When we talk about changes in society, we talk about change and education. It has been very difficult to animated any world economy, especially members of the European Union, to come to companies, to open their factories and new jobs here. Today, in 2019, we are talking, for example, about Germany, which is an example of dual education, an example state, and France, we are talking about so many companies that employ over 50,000 employees in German companies. Over 50,000 Serbs work in German companies that have opened their production facilities here. Why are we talking about a case of dual education and why has Serbia even crossed over and the Ministry of Education simply accepted the model of dual education that Germany has in its labour market, in its education system? Because they gave the highest score, because the generators of their economy are medium-sized enterprises. For us in Serbia are small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It was very difficult to start a change at all, one economic growth and development in Serbia and change education in the work at all. This is also a confession to you that you participated in this process, which you first introduced dual education when it comes to secondary education, so let's see now the results of that. So, after just three years of implementing this programme, we have 37 dual education models, when it comes to secondary education, 2.533 students enrolled today for the next school year, which makes up a total of 7,000 children who are simply in this education process, 460 companies participate in this system. Now, in fact, they have obtained the conditions that we, in full capacity under this law, introduce dual education when it comes to higher education, when it comes to the study programme, because we have already informed children, children who already attend this system of education and have a simple motivation to enter universities under this programme. It is not true that everything is optional, it is mandatory that the moment you define yourself and enter college whether you will go as a student by dual education model or you will go to a standard learning model. What was adopted in 2017 as the legal possibility of the Law on Higher Education, it is Article 39, so what we call professional practice, were introduced with Article 60, so that each university can have this so-called "expert practice". a committee that actually represents a set of small and medium-sized enterprises that can co-operate with the university in a certain way and a Article 80 which implies that even third parties, i.e. people from the economy, can conduct certain lectures on the call of the faculty for students from certain areas. I can tell you that such a system already exists in certain universities, especially when it comes to technical colleges, including economic colleges in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, and that students feel somewhere that the state has given them certain wings to learn what is now, as they say, the standard in the world, where it is part of that so-called state. The fourth industrial revolution, where they can really compare and make a comparative analysis whether to study in Serbia or study abroad. When they put it all together, which I say on paper, which is the possibility that at any moment you have a professor in one mentor's way to be in touch with them that you are informatively connected, that here, after all, you live in the environment of your family, that you are separated abroad, that you have opportunities, that you have a certain system of education that, of course, takes place in certain clichés and that simply what you will teach you there binds you to be forever abroad, that you have no chance of coming back, because there is a great obligation there to work and to live outside your country, then somewhere in the fourth year of high school students based on a survey that has been done with all these students of the dual education system in secondary schools shows that our children are really motivated to work this system of education in Serbia, that there is a lot of good work in foreign companies here, because the results you achieve here are very visible in contrast to those where you have to reconcile with one average not all the EU member states that come from other Member States, and the former SFR. Therefore, every child who needs to enroll in higher education really seriously, if he does triage, means the requirement of what's here in Serbia at the university and the opportunities he has at this time and what he can get abroad, is somewhere open to him, precisely because there's a great demand on the labour market here for a highly professional staff in various areas. This request has been recognized by the state and the Ministry of Education and that's why it's somewhere, I think a kind of recognition of your body work, especially when we're talking about that one factory that manufactures aircraft engines, the MTU German company has defined itself to open its production capacities here, just said that one of the main reasons why it opens is that it's precisely the quality of education from this area, which is at the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade, it's the Air Force Department that has now received the program since the first year, it hasn't, because the Faculty of Engineering has united its teaching until the third year, since the third year they've been defined on some 15 profiles. It has now been realized that since the first year it should be directed exclusively to the profession through the IT programme and through the aircraft direction. It means directing first-year students for these high-tech technologies. This essentially showed the ministry that there was hearing, as did Professor Radenovic, who is also from the university, but should say that it is very difficult to deal with today's many clichés and vanitys of professors who work generally in all colleges because it is the most difficult to make a decision on the continuation of the teaching-science council of their colleagues. That's where, in fact, somewhere as humans, we have to show all the greater width to support our colleagues, maybe even in a moment if we disagree with something, and that's what my colleague tried to say today is that it's not good that we as parliamentarians are constantly passing laws every year, to extend students' studies as per the old programme. There are 3,670 students, over 100 students who have over 9.5 average, if it were a college thing, but believe it was a college thing, they would have just lost their right to study a long time ago. So, this should be made clear to the citizens of Serbia, precisely because of this relationship of professors who are sometimes too rigid towards students and do not realize that today students are looking for support in a completely different way from their professors, to seek them as a kind of mentor not only, but future colleagues to whom they should leave their knowledge, not to wear that discipline that we are used to when we were studying. It's just that that kind of pedagogical work somewhere professors in colleges ignore the fact that students make it easier to decide and say, well, if I can't finish this college within a reasonable period of five to seven years, then I'll go abroad and it'll end up much easier, where I might have a weight with that degree much bigger, which of course doesn't stand. This is a request, an appeal and professors in colleges to simply change their approach because it depends on how many students they're going to tie to these teachers, how many students they're going to stay, after all, faithful to them and in contacts and after completed studies. I think it's good to stay because in co-operation with business, professors and students, I think it's a win-win combination for both companies and companies, but also for the very economy of Serbia. When we talk about today's proposal for a law on dual education in higher education institutions, we are talking about achieving greater relevance of education and alignment with the labour market, that is what we have always said that the profession nomenclature itself did not correspond to what these companies are looking for. The ministry worked together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to make many changes, as we can see, must have changed a lot, wouldn't 460 companies have participated in this programme. Many things have changed when we talk and that what is expected of young people is creative, projective, and critical thinking. I think it's very pronounced with our students and I think this way of functioning dual education in higher education institutions is really going to bring what's most important to us, which is to master the skills of knowledge management. So that and what we worship, and believe me, there are a lot of teachers who think that this way of working is actually the establishment of so-called. The blue coats, or regrets, that we are training cheap labour are not at all valid because this way of production is highly educated when we get fully-innovated personnel. Because they will not only gain their education through work but will also have a high quality of education with knowledge of foreign languages, with knowledge of new systems of communication, with education from the field of IT regardless of whether they are technical professions or socio-humanist sciences. We will get innovative solutions when the students are finished, when their knowledge is at stake, and thus we will get greater competition in the labour market. Those who will end the classical way of studying with professional practice will have to go through this traineeship and in some ways those who will go through this work, and the obligation is about 450 hours a year, so we get a certain level of staff where they will apply for their job and simply give them more weight and advantage in employment. We think it's really this kind of education, higher education that's good. This was also shown by a survey of students and high school students who are interested in this kind of study and what is important to say is that we are actually getting students who are going to go through the system that awaits us, that fourth industrial revolution, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown great readiness by forming the Commission, representatives of all ministries to support this way of functioning, that it has shown that there is a master plan that will respect the meaning of higher education institutions as well as this commission that will follow and that it will be much easier for the national accreditation body to monitor the accreditation of these programmes when they exist from the beginning, practically since the first year. In addition to this proposal of the Law on dual study education, we also have a proposal for a law on the regulation of professions and recognition of these professional qualifications, the problems we solve are not only the things relating to Chapter 7 which closes and I don't know, Chapter 3 relating to the part of providing services, as well as those sub-chapteres that speak of that there are certain minimums in terms of professional qualifications, but we simply follow those two directives, Europeans. One regulation of the European Commission relating to the administrative network of IT markets, the functioning of a qualification market which essentially, I think we should know that not only countries in the region, but also EU members, means equally educational profiles, and that those who have completed whether in our country or abroad have this minimum qualification and that we have this solution based on which someone who is, for example, is. finished abroad doesn't have to pass any additional exams here and vice versa, so our qualified students with a certain type of diploma don't have to retake and pass certain exams to be recognized on the labour market. That's very important to us. I think it is especially important for all those people who may want to work abroad as well as in those countries that want to be EU members because I think they are recognised not only in the EU but also in the world. So when we talk about both the West and the East, it's one wind in our backs, all those people who can really compete with their qualifications for all the jobs that end in Serbia. The objectives of this law are to speed up greater fluctuations, ultimately work themselves, to establish a general system of professional qualifications, and to simply show that we are in fact promoting this investment environment, that an increasing number of interested investors are opening new jobs here, which essentially has no problem hiring our people at all. This approach to the profession in general may seem to be good enough here, but when you look at it, that approach to the profession in any branch, you'll see that there are always prisons in that system when it comes to, for example. Medical chambers, different esnafian associations, you'll see that through this we're going to have a whole new system of functioning and these associations. So, what is important is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will bring a list of regulated professions within 120 days when we adopt this law, that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the future will have a certain large task in this matter and that the national coordinator will be defined for informing citizens of Serbia as well as the centres available and will report to the European Commission on all this and what is important that we have one complete transparency in this system which is very important for all of us here. It is important to say that this law has a statement of similarity in line with EU rules, but it is also important to say that on page 75 of this material that it is important for us to say that within three months, the competent Professional Qualifications Agency has to issue a solution since when any interested party submits a request without leaving any cost to Serbia's budget, so that the law does not cause any such consequences. In the day for the SNS vote, of course it will support these two legislative proposals, because we believe that they have waited long enough for them to really live and start applying them and I think that Mr. Sarčević, you have indeed shown willingness to start certain processes that you have started in a certain way and end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60189	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. No, then we continue the discussion in order to apply for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60190	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the honourable representatives of the Government, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party do not have a dilemma about supporting these laws specifically on higher education, i.e. dual education in higher education. First of all, our confidence in this support decision is based on our experience on a kind of experiment that we had at the International University of Novi Pazar, which has since 2002, in fact been fighting for its marketable living space in a space where there had previously been no university, had to offer additional qualities in order to survive, survive and develop and one of the orientations was actually this, so to force the quality of skills, quality of practice, and that was only possible in the face of economy and in the face of public and other institutions. That certainly wasn’t difficult especially when we didn’t have one of these legal bases, but the tenacity in one such orientation certainly gives real qualities. Therefore, now that we look at the statistics of these students, or of the graduates, when it comes to employment, when it comes to success in certain jobs, you actually see that this is the real essential quality that is necessary and that is more important than the formal reference that is important when we deliver gray, when we actually present ourselves, but after we pass this first presentation or after we are engaged in some jobs then those references in gray are no longer relevant but actually it is necessary to prove real quality. Therefore, over a few years at this university, we have made sure that this was still early in higher education and that after stepping up in the field of secondary education, where I think the risks were even higher, now the step with dual education in higher education I don't think we have any special risks and that this is a very good step that will provide freshness, although for those who want it will continue to be universities, or colleges and other higher education institutions can again choose how much of this quality as well, because ultimately we need to be aware that the laws are actually platforms and frameworks for a certain step in development, the law is not the one that can provide development, from the law does not depend on further development, the law is the one that provides a framework based on those who want to achieve a higher degree in development, i.e. a higher degree in quality, in fact, they can do so legally and can have support in the law for such a particular, while the teachers who have a certain high level of education, where they are weak education. It is, of course, a question that the National Assembly will be concerned with, but above all, the Ministry will have to deal with further to find a solution to how to deal with such anomalies and how, in fact, besides what is the form, and what is provided by the law, so how to get into the real depths of quality This is one of the ways that we will actually be able to refer from the positions of different universities to the right quality, that is, with the real quality, where in fact the economy and the other, the field of the social sector, actually, they are that factor of the assessment. Of course, it is particularly important here to welcome what the law gives us on the possibility of registering, i.e. establishing a single register for workers in the field of the university, where we will also have the opportunity to have insight into the real quality references in the economy and in other fields, and those personal, but also those institutions themselves have their own Shanghai list, i.e. their list of quality determinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60191	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Miladna Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60192	Thank you, Chairman. I hope that the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development will welcome the idea that, first of all, we welcome Vojislav Ligorovski, who graduated from two universities at the University of Belgrade, Bio and Electrotechnically, passed 87 items and received 87 dozens and doctorate in Switzerland. I hope that the Ministry will get the strength to, in the name of the Regional Fund for Education, Science and Technological Development, provide all the doctors of science, who are unemployed, at least an internship of two years, so that they can prove themselves in scientific research organisations and thus provide themselves with visibility in the scientific community and possibly permanent employment. In this context, I ask you why in the central area of Serbia and KiM, unemployed doctors do not have the same status as science doctors who are without employment in the territory of the province of Vojvodina? The second question is, since this is a principled approach to debate, I hope you won't mind me, why for years has there been no competition for national scientific research projects for five years now, and does the Ministry understand what position scientific research workers are in when they conclude contracts, not six months ago, not six months later, for an extension of engagement on national projects, because since 2014, there has been no new cycle of national projects? I hope you'll answer those two questions for me. I would also like to take the opportunity to inform the National Assembly that yesterday, after 105 years, on Ada on the Drina near Padovinac, thanks, among other things, to Goran Sladojevic of Badovic, who donated land, a memorial was erected in the form of an iron cross for the Iron Regiment, a war unit with the highest distinction in the First World War, which was given the mark only after 105 years for the last battle that was fought in 1914, when the attack of criminal expeditions was attempted after the Church battle again on the territory of Machva. I would also like to ask the parliamentary majority, because as an opposition MP, I do not have the opportunity to influence the decision-making process, but to ask the assembly majority, especially the president of the SNS Parliament Club, Mr Martinovic, to think twice about it, although it will soon be a public hearing on the topic "Status of Water in Serbia" under the initiative of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and Water Management, over 10 days if I am not mistaken, to consider whether it is necessary to urgently stop the construction of mini power plants, especially in protected areas, national parks, because it is causing so many boycotts of the population to move more into an unsustainable situation? Another question I would like to initiate to discuss in the Assembly, as the new Budget Act for 2020 goes, is the current in Serbia a luxury in the 21st century? If it's not a luxury, why is there a excise charge on electricity? The third question, which I also want to initiate, is why is it that discrimination against farmers who have been expelled from the minimum pension rights, which apply to the other two groups of pensioners, those who have gained a pension in a working relationship and those who have gained a pension on the basis of work on their own? After all, aren't farmers the most represented self-activities? Why do they have a minimum pension today of 11.272,77 dinars and these two groups of pensioners 14.338.72 dinars or, practically, 30% smaller? Are they second-class citizens? Why does Article 76 not apply to them? The Law on PIO, which was amended and completed in 2010? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60193	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60194	Your Honor, for this guy who's doctored in Switzerland, I'd like you to refer him to the cabinet. I don't have the right to hire anyone directly, but I can recommend it. A year ago, when the guy passed ETF and the chemical college, we recommended him to the Innovation Fund and he's employed there. So there's this insight where for such young people absolutely that recommendation is good, because those bodies are willing to expand and receive. Why do I say Innovation Fund? As it grows, it also forecasts a higher number of young people per job per year. It's something I think we'll have a chance. What Vojvodina is doing is not hiring, but it's some circuit fund that promotes young researchers, but I don't think there's a need for that either, because that's the answer to this second, or third question that you said, and that's what I was talking about earlier, to change the model of that national call as it was before. We've passed two laws in this home. One refers to the Science Fund, and the other is called the Science and Research Act. Through this second law, we have defined the salaries of people who work in science, so researchers, who now have callings as well as at university. You know that wages were more through direct material costs paid, not as some kind of earnings that were valued in catalogues of professions. Even under the Law of Salaries, which will go for people who receive from the budget salary, they will be classified in the catalogue of occupation as well as the university. That's one category. The Science Fund is starting to work. So, there won't be any more of that big mass call where, let's put our hands on your heart, just analyze it a little bit, report a lot of people, and a lot of people pull other people along, and you don't even have a chance to see what's been done with that work, whether it's successful or not, but they've lasted too long. So, the Science Fund is a completely independent body. So no one can influence the political, nor the minister, or anyone else, to say -- let go of that and that project, it's great, it's already made the first call. Last year, we first introduced these laws to parliament, and here was the electronic signing of the first contracts of people who had doctored and had about 30 years. These 1.157 have received jobs in existing projects that are still valid until New Year's Eve. We're slowly going into new projects. Thousands of young people got jobs by obtaining these initial projects through the Science Fund. Now we had June 22nd, the prime minister and I made that initial call, this project Promis. It also continues with young people. About 600 reported. The quota was expected to be 200. We'll go to the budget reserve and raise it in this year. Yesterday, in the press, counterpart Popovic, State Secretary for Science, "Politica" announced that there would be two more calls, one call for an area of artificial intelligence and will go to call for our diaspora scientists. So, the Science Fund is not going to give these more megalomaniac, big calls for everyone, but for thematic ones, and it's going to go just as far as we think some areas require and cover it and then there's a serious evaluation of work, and I don't think there's ever been this much more stable conditions for learning and working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60195	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60196	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. In the Serbian Parliament, I was elected from the SNS list, and I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. Otherwise, at the PS – NSS – USS, as so far, we will support the proposal of all these laws. I think it is necessary, because our desire is to join the EU. Thus, by harmonising these laws with the laws in the EU, we have the opportunity to be at the same level, even at a higher level of intellectual, as far as our young people are concerned. I will put a higher emphasis on this law on dual education for higher education, for colleges, because in the previous period we had the Law on dual education in secondary schools, which proved to be good, where at first there were a small number of students who had enrolled in dual education, but after that, with the support of the competent ministry, respected Minister Mr. Sarčević, with whom we really cooperated in one part, because the ministry recognises small environments, which puts an accent on young people, on children, on learning, on learning. The ministry headed by Minister Sarcevic provides support in every respect for us from small towns, as from the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gadjin Han and other municipalities, now not to mention all who are in southeast Serbia, the great need is because a large number of young people have left these municipalities in the previous period. We have a problem with demographics, a lack of children born, and that is why we want together to give these laws the possibility that these children who remain here in our midst, who have been born, who have graduated from primary school, finish high school, graduates and colleges, that with the support and adoption of such laws, these young people may have the opportunity to, after the adoption of this law, if they are enrolled in some college, whether it is veterinary, agriculture, whether it is some school of technical sciences, mechanical, electronic colleges and all that is in Nis, because the largest number of our students from small towns that are in southeastern Serbia go to the university, where we really, with the support of all of us, these students, those future students, who are enrolled in the new law of dual education and high education with support and economy, with the support of the Regional Chamber of Commerce, these young people, will have the possibility that they will be able to learn where they are in terms and in order to use it in the environment. In particular, as far as my community is concerned, I come from Srlig, there is a possibility specifically related to the machinery industry. There was once the same company, “Machin MIN DIV” now works, where there are many needs and where people are already employed. We also have some new companies that work in that part and that technology, but on the other hand, we also have the need for employment, because we know that a year ago the Faculty of Agriculture is open in Kruševec, which is within the University of Slovenia, where our students, who are going to study there, through a programme of dual education, and they come from these small environments, can through that programme provide themselves with their existence tomorrow. In particular, for example, the veterinary course, the veterinary profession, can make arrangements in the veterinary cells, because we need people experts, as far as the veterinary profession is concerned. That is why we are witnessing that during the period behind us we have a lot of infectious diseases that have included one part of our Serbia. In particular, it is now a recognizable African swine fever, where it takes a much larger number of people to engage, professional people. These are our veterinarians, who in the previous period also showed that all those veterinarians who work in cells, work in institutes, have shown how to fight for livestock, for people, as well as without money to fight for it and thus to protect animal health, and thus to protect and protect human health. I've talked about it, and I'll always say that we have to respect the veterinary profession a lot more, that we have to respect the veterinary profession a lot more, and here's a way now that through the adoption of this law, through a dual education programme for higher education we have the possibility that tomorrow young students who come from these small communities, where there's a chance for livestock farming, where there's a chance of developing livestock, where nature has given us everything, we have to take advantage of it. Through this programme of dual education, supported by the Chamber of Commerce, the Regional Chamber of Commerce or other such institutions, we can ensure that these people can learn and apply it directly tomorrow and on the ground during their studies. I think this law is great, that this law gives young people who learn, specifically I was talking about agriculture, about livestock, about veterinary, and this other part of Nis has the same, it's the Faculty of Electronics, then the Faculty of Engineering, where really, it's colleges that are very recognizable, where they give a great opportunity for our young people who have enrolled and who will now enter through the programme and the dual education system so that they can go on the spot and learn and that later on, they are also doing their knowledge in these economic entities because we see that a lot of these companies are open in the territory of the Nisa District, in the territory of the city of Nisa, because we are all witnesses who live there to have a shift in employment. The big thing is that a student who enters college through this dual education program can, with the support of the Regional Chamber of Commerce, with the support of a business subject, learn, work and know that he has a job to do tomorrow. That's our job, and we all have to work together on it. I think it's necessary, and I'm going to say this now, because in some previous period of up to two thousand and a few years, we had privatizations that were disastrous for our areas, for Nis, for the environment, for Srlig, for the White Palanca, for Gajin Han, where these privatisations in such a state made society that it was a collapse. Here, there is an interesting situation, specifically, with us in Svrlig there was once the Electronic Industry Svrljig, which was making production related to music devices, speakers and within the framework of this Faculty of Electronics in Nis was the only one in Serbia, i.e. in that Yugoslavia a deaf room, so that the owner of that deaf room was the Faculty of Electronics in Nis, and in the meantime the company was privatized once, the second time, and all in a bad way, the bad example was bad practice. Now, God gave, this firm has good owners and these people there are doing production of something else, not related to electronics, but the important thing is that this deaf room is still present, that the Faculty of Electronics in Nis needs to do certain things. There may be a future there. (President: Bringing the end. ) In the end, I say again that the situation in the previous period, as far as privatisation is concerned, was disastrous. Once again, I, as an MP and president of the USS, will support all these proposed laws, give support to Minister Sarcevic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to continue working this way for the benefit of all of us and those people living in the country, living in small areas and normal, and give support to our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, who is fighting with all his strength for our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60197	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60198	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister and dear and distinguished citizens, first of all a little reminder. When we had on the agenda a debate on the Law on Medium Dual Education, unfortunately, that debate was marked to a large extent by propaganda at the expense of information. On the side of the government, we had propaganda that this law would be revolutionary, that it would contribute to GDP growth, that it would solve unemployment, that it would create a society of knowledge, stop young people from going to the world, open up opportunities for them, and raise the standard of living, and on the side of the opposition then we had propaganda that we would actually create a society of cheap labour forces, an army of cable riders, who would be permanently trapped in poverty, on low-skilled and low-paid jobs, and that we would have some kind of economic colonialisation of Serbia in favour of foreign investors. So we had propaganda instead of information. It was similar last year when the law on default organ donation was passed here. Then, in public, it's a big deal about how we're going to get the malts into a situation where we're forced to take our organs and sell them to cheap strangers, and that the government is going to get rich out of it. So we think the role of politicians is also in the opposition to inform citizens, not to expose them to propaganda. We urge citizens to be asked to be truly informed, not content with just feeling informed. At that time, we asked that some things be clarified in the Law on Medium Dual Education. One of the questions that we have not been able to answer at the time was the involvement of students in secondary dual education in the mandatory social security system, i.e. whether there is an obligation for the employer to pay contributions for them, to be included in insurance, pension, therefore, in compulsory social security. At that time in the debate, the answer was strikingly lagging behind, and then in December 2018, we changed Article 11 paragraph 3 in silence, and it was only then explicitly prescribed that students in dual education were included in compulsory social security with employers, and it was obvious that until then we had a provision which was questionable as soon as we could not explicitly answer the question repeatedly asked. It's not good that we do that, it's not good that we leave things half-determined and unscheduled, because it creates a basis for propaganda and for spreading rumors and for serving semi-informed and uninformed citizens. We have, in fact, represented what I am about to say, and that is that dual education as a concept is not in itself controversial, that it is good, that what in the market economies means a lot to the general economic state of society, and it is called "Vokejnal Sunday". So, and then we said that it was not good to stop only in high school education by dual system, but that in the west in dual education, people are educated to work in banks, doctors, nurses, public administration workers and that dual education is necessary in this regard. So I was personally faced as an employer and as a manager with young future employees who come out of the Faculty of Economics and do not distinguish the balance sheet and the balance of success, which is a fundamental thing, not to say that they do not know that they answer the question of what happens when you have an increase in reservations in a year, that they do not know that this is the cost of the current period and so some basic things in finance. That is why it is good to have a concept of dual education and in higher education. In order for this concept to be successful, it would have to provide a number of quality education and education, all opportunities for the development of all students’ talents and for the continuation of education as well as in the concept of regular education. So, if a child went to dual education for financial reasons or for his own purpose, it must be equally trained to continue schooling if it is necessary at Harvard, as well as a child who came out of the regular education system. It must facilitate the financing of education for those who need it, better practical knowledge as an addition to theoretical knowledge, safe working environment and better employability. Of course, the results will be as good as good practice in carrying out insurance. One thing I want to give some clarifications about, and I object to the law, and we talked about it on the Committee, and my colleague Stevanovic has already mentioned it, and that is the question of insurance for workers. It is true that it is prescribed that students in dual education will be provided as workers in that employer are provided but workers in that employer are not well-insured. We will equalise students with workers but we will equate them in a bad solution, because the Labour Safety and Health Act does not prescribe minimum security sums and there are no criminal provisions to escrow the job insurance obligations of employees. And then it happens that workers are being provided worthlessly, that their lives by employers are being treated worthlessly. There are domestic employers, foreign employers, something better, but they are far worse than the practices they practice in their home countries, and workers are terrified of even asking whether they have insurance or not, and then you happen to get 50,000 or 100,000 dinars in case of death, which is still possible, to be very unpleasant now, and a better variant than when a worker experiences 100% disability and with such material compensation that is worthless to the family on the burden, disabled to further earn. So this is something that would have to be resolved through the Law on Safety and Health at Work in some task force of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education for Dual Education and the Union of Employers, because this is some additional cost that, through the obligation of minimum level of insurance, would also be imposed on employers. At the end of the line we have in the talks with the insurance industry some model proposal, which is what exists in the concept of compulsory passenger insurance in public transport. There are some minimum amounts, because it is sad to see employers who separate 5 or 10,000 euros for insurance of official bmms and car management, and for insurance workers cannot separate 100, 200 dinars per month, although they have funds, because in various ways they know how to get their profits out of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60199	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60200	I think the solutions to the draft of this Law on Dual Models of Studies make it very clear what the employers' obligations are when it comes to taxes and contributions, and that's exactly how much they are for PIO, how much for health, and how much tax on second income. So, what's important, students can be released through the Law on Income Tax of Citizens of some of these things. We agree with that, but you're making an important difference from a underage student whose contract was signed by a parent in a dual model and where you have that even in 14 years someone starts high school, if he went early to primary school, and that's kind of a motivational scholarship. There it is not intended to be considered a worker in that domain. He's an education student for work. It's been defined differently here. I agree with you that we must, and we will certainly do this, the choice of good employers. Since the entire story involves the Chamber of Commerce, since we have a mentor, it is a role that no countries such as these conduct, as we have a teacher in secondary education in a dual model, so it is very important that we have a good register with the Chamber of Employers who meet their obligations to make contracts with them. I mentioned that we are doing JISP – a unique information system in education and that we will take the employer's opinion as an indicator of the quality of what the university has done with the student, whether it is a dual model, any other model, because someone doesn't have to go to dual studies, and we have a board of employers at every university. So anyone, like you, can give your own court of law on the graduate students of these and those colleges after a year of your time at work. The mutual information is very valuable and will be made public, it will be available to the public where we will then react if the employer of that profile appears, you know, by giving the minimumers and paying off white and black. It doesn't get into our sector anymore, but since it's about young people, we designed to have insight and follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60201	The word is from a colleague, Vera Paunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60202	Dear Vice-President, Honored Ministers, Guests, Honorable People's MPs, Proposal for a law on dual model of higher education studies on the agenda of today's session creates the right basis for achieving two types of goals to be achieved in higher education. In the first place is certainly due to a higher degree of practical training of our students during the course of the studies. I don't want to give a flat rate on the state of our higher education, but I think most of us here and the general public will agree that when our students finish their studies on average, they have relatively little practical skills to apply to the jobs they are trained for, so they rarely need a significant period of time to adapt to a new job and to acquire the necessary practical skills for quality work. Another important objective that this law should meet is to achieve a better integration of higher education and economy, i.e. through the creation of greater opportunities for professional practice, potential candidates for employment in certain enterprises, even during their studies, are to be linked to potential employers and thus completely eliminated or, at least, drastically shortened time spent by these young people as unemployed in the labour market. These objectives should be achieved through the establishment of co-operation between high school institutions and employers. The initiative will be on the side of a high school institution, which means that this model will not necessarily be applied. Those colleges and high schools that want this will educate a network of interested employers, together with them to draw up appropriate study plans, and the final word on their approval will be given to the national accreditation body. Article 11 lists the conditions that employers will have to fulfil, which are to carry out certain activities, the corresponding number of mentors, employees who have the same or more education as students in training, the availability of certain space and equipment and means of work, the application of adequate security measures, as well as insolvency operations. These provisions are of considerable importance, as it is apparent that the employer must be a serious enterprise in which potential students will really have the opportunity to acquire the right experience, where their rights will be protected, and that it must not happen to some collective where he will just sit all the time scheduled for practical work. The mutual rights and obligations of colleges and employers, as well as employers and students referred to in training will be regulated by contracts, whose essential elements are mutual rights and obligations are very detailed in Articles 14 and 21. What is of crucial importance to future students are members 31 and 32, where their rights are regulated by employers, the right to compensation for transport, food, insurance and the most important right to cash compensation during their work with the employer of between 30 and 70% of the basic income of a worker working in similar jobs, depending on the year of study and the level of knowledge achieved. So students who opted for this kind of study will also have certain negligible material benefits. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I believe that by reviving this model of higher education, all its actors will have. Employers will be easier to reach new workers, the colleges will be able to provide their students with more useful knowledge. After completing higher education, the student will have a higher level of practical training, and in time the state will be able to gain more real insight into the real needs of the industry for experts and thus will be able to plan in the right way the number of quotas entered in higher education institutions whose founder is. With such proposed solutions in mind, the PUPS parliamentary group will support their adoption in the voting day, as well as the adoption of other draft laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60203	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, what we have received in the material as MPs, I quote this and say – according to some positive experiences, when we talk about the Law on the dual model of higher education studies – some positive experiences of European countries have established the need to enable the organisation of a dual model that could be applied depending on the needs of higher education institutions. Before I give an example that may have been both the predecessor of this law or to say the pilot phase relating to the University of Nis, I must point out that the SDPS programme is the "State of Education" and monitors the modern course in the field of education within the EU, with the intention of bringing the most successful models closer together. The aim of the SDPS programme document "State of Education" is to define an educational policy which will be imposed, not only by political will, but also by all relevant factors in this area and with the support of the public above all, as an idea for some new generations. This bill regulates co-operation, as I said to higher education institutions and employers, and unlike the work model, as someone mentioned today, in the dual model of study, i.e. study practical training, work or practice of the employer are just an integral part of the study programme, which, of course, involves some administrative activities, which is the signing of a contract with employers, etc. I said at the beginning of an example of a good practice, I can say it's not dual, but in Nis three or four years ago, a contract on professional practice was signed, so I would only share with you and my colleagues. Namely, the University of Nis and the city of Nis created the conditions for the largest number of young people with a university degree to remain in Serbia through joint engagement and support in professional training. Just by connecting business and academic communities, they have signed a co-operation agreement since 2014 in terms of performing professional practice of students in the authorities of the city administration and public utility companies whose founder is the city, thus enabling a number of students and graduates of the University of Nis to practically acquire these practical skills and skills and some kind of work experience. Over 200 students have passed this program so far. Ratings and experiences are very good both by students and by the city administration Nis and public utility companies, and on the third hand we have these positive effects of the colleges themselves, because they gave extra ENP points to students, which is a great indication that students are interested in this system of work. I repeat once again, this is one model and this is an example of good practice, and now it's much easier when we have the law and the message is to all local self-governments in Serbia, regardless of which municipality students come from. This bill also introduces one newspaper, which is the agreement that a model is organised on an already accredited study programme by a dual model of studies, but without increasing the number of students from accreditation. After all, the SDPS is in its program and advocates the so-called SDPS. Designed entry policy at universities, which means that the number and educational profiles should monitor the current and future needs of the economy. On the other hand, in scientific terms, this dual model of studies contributes to the development of research and innovation, as smaller companies are often unable to form research and development teams where dual model students would point to the most modern scientific achievements. The main objective of dual education is to look at strengthening the partnership between theoretical and practical knowledge, and to adapt rapidly to changes in economy at global level. We of the SDPS believe that this is practically a bond, that social partnership is one of the main indicators of how education change awareness should be developed, because it is this openness to innovation in education and partnership with the economy that is key elements of the “State of Education”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60205	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60206	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposal for a dual model of higher education studies provides a legal framework that is flexible and can be applied depending on the need of higher education institutions offering academic and vocational education and are interested in their students' knowledge acquired in higher education institutions during the course of the study and through work, which will be valued through payment of fees, travel expenses, food, tuition, scholarships and other ways. Dual education in secondary and high schools is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia as part of the 21st century primary goal of education. In addition, the reminders, presented in the Prime Minister's exhibition, also announced the need to pass a law that would regulate the dual model of higher education studies. Practice in countries that have developed a dual model of studies has shown that there is an interest in the economy in this way of studying. The dual model of studies is not mandatory, but only represents the possibility of higher education institutions, and employers will have the opportunity to participate in the education of their potential employees and carry out selection of candidates. This model of study will contribute to the development of research and innovation, as smaller companies are often unable to form research and development teams, due to lack of proper staff, but there will be students of a dual model that will be a bond that would point to modern achievements for companies and encourage the realization of scientific and research projects. The formation of a network of employers at a higher education facility practically forms a local or regional network of companies that get to know each other, network and start mutual co-operation, which will contribute to regional development. I agree, and I am of the same opinion with the opinion of the working group, in order to contribute to the increased interest and motivation of the employer in establishing a dual model of study. Clearly, the dual model is not equally applicable to all scientific fields and fields. The experiences of some countries that successfully apply this method of study show that it has been excellent in technical and technological and medical sciences. As far as medical sciences are concerned, I believe that this form of study and how to prove and prove itself effective, because applying acquired theoretical knowledge from medical science through working with patients during study, along with mentors, is a great advantage and a huge experience that will be useful in independent work after the study is completed. After completing a medical study as a young doctor, you are full of theoretical knowledge, and then in some remote infirmary you remain alone with a patient and you feel fear and uncertainty in applying that theory in practice. This way of studying overcomes this fear through constant practice, with experienced mentors that will show you some mistakes in applying theory in practice and the result is that we get a medical expert who knows what he is doing, who has certain skills, freed fear and more secure in applying acquired knowledge. The main objective of the dual model study is to acquire and improve knowledge, skills and skills according to the study programme and qualification standard. And which is also not less important, this work will be valued, paying tuition, scholarships, work fees or some other way. In fact, students will receive an hourly fee of at least 50% of the basic salary of an employee who works on the same or similar jobs. In doing so, they must meet at least 450 hours a year, spent on learning through work. The bill also covers the protection of students' rights in accordance with the rules on higher education, labour and safety and health at work, the law governing the ban on labour abuse, the law on pension and disability insurance, the law governing the protection of intellectual property. The law prohibits all types of discrimination during the performance of learning through work, in accordance with the law governing the prohibition of discrimination. The bill defines the obligation to sign a contract between higher education institutions and employers signing a contract with a student, and the register of all dual model contracts is run by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. There are also conditions under which someone can sign, as well as break the contract. Students who complete double-model studies, given the great practical experience they will gain in the application of acquired theoretical knowledge, will increase their competitiveness on the labour market and will have a better chance of hiring with employers who have also performed practical teaching, but also others from the same work. The main objective of dual higher education is to bridge the gaps between theoretical and practical knowledge acquired, in other words – education with the use of acquired theoretical knowledge in practice and thus quickly adapt to changes in the global economy, technical, medical and other sciences and industries. Two words about the law on regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications, and my colleagues will talk more about it. The draft law on regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications is our obligation from the pre-accession agenda. So it must be brought before accession to the European Union, but will apply from the moment of EU accession. Until then, administrative assumptions should be made for its application. In the process of applying for EU membership under negotiating Chapter 3 - Freedom to provide services, Sub-chapter 4, which deals with the recognition of professional classifications under which the Republic of Serbia is obliged to implement EU law in its legal system. In essence, this way, which is also the aim of law-making, will allow the free movement of labour within the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the provision of services as well as the preparation of the Republic of Serbia to join the European Union. The aim is to regulate the procedure and recognise professional classifications itself through automatic recognition, where the EU provides for minimum conditions that must be met in order to carry out a regulated profession. This free movement of labour and provision of services in the European and economic context opens up the possibility of employment in any EU member state, but also the possibility of incurring labour from other EU Member States, thus enabling the exchange of work and services, the presence on foreign labour markets, the complementarity in terms of deficited labour force, competition, and the inclusion of the Republic of Serbia in the IMI system. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the two draft laws on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60207	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60208	Thank you, Your Honor. Honored ministers with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues, you have already had opportunities to hear the reasons why MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support these laws. They are certainly based on the quality and positive experience of the concrete and competitive knowledge that is gained by persuasion of theoretical experience when it comes to dual education. What I would like to say or perhaps refer one proposal is that it is certainly important and important and visible that these dual systems of education and how widespread they are in technical sciences, when it comes to other areas. However, at the so-called DH fields, i.e. socio-humanist sciences, we may have a smaller spectrum of opportunities to take advantage of this dual education, and therefore it might be useful to think about strategies that would be opened by state institutions, scientific institutions and all other institutions that could be directed by people from DH fields to use these benefits and have their experiences in terms of theoretical knowledge that they have already mastered and mastered in colleges and practices, concrete practice in some of the institutions of the system, whether at local level, whether at a republican level, a province or any other. In any case, these are extremely important and useful suggestions. They enable students to take advantage of their specific skills and thus to be recognized and branded as highly qualified persons who will have the opportunity to pursue their careers in that segment in which they have been chosen to work. I'd also like to look back at the second bill. What we, as MPs, are very often faced with are the demands of individual graduates of the university, especially from countries of the region, when it comes to nostrification, or recognition of their diplomas in the Republic of Serbia. Since this bill, as I have sent forward, refers primarily to medical sciences, architectural sciences and others, most of these requirements apply to those who have completed medical studies in BiH, Montenegro or in other similar or close countries and who have long waited for their diploma to be recognised in the Republic of Serbia, so that they can establish a concrete working relationship. So, perhaps, or rather, a maximum effort should be made as soon as possible so that those who, I repeat, are mostly citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that this law applies partly to those who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can be equally classified in terms of their concrete right to achieve and to recognise their diplomas, especially from those universities or those areas that are rare in our country, and as we know, we have an extremely large outflow of young people in terms of medical science, so that I think it would be very good to have those who have completed medical sciences, and whose demands are the most in the countries of the region, that as soon as we nitrify their diplomas to be able to take positions, i.e.e. to be competitive and to have opportunities to build a working relationship in one of the medical or scientific centres. Certainly, to praise and what the minister was saying about the Science Fund and that this is exactly what we see the chances of these in the DH field, that they can take advantage of this fund even more by applying certain concrete projects and the possibility of their project hiring most of the people in their or similar fields, in this way by contributing to their contribution and science, but by contributing to the development of this intellectual and scientific environment to achieve a favourable climate for the development of the overall scientific but social mix in our society and thus speeding up the remaining young quality personnel in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60209	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60210	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on dual education, but before I say more about it, I would really like to remind the MPs, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia of several very significant legal acts that we have adopted in the previous period, and as regards this very law. In fact, before the adoption of the Law on Dual Education in 2017, we had one more real problem, and this problem was in fact such that certain job openings in employers could not be completed precisely because workers themselves, therefore, and those who needed to fill them had not had enough knowledge and skills and sufficient competence. In addition, I will remind the public that until these laws were passed, this set of dual education had a number of school workshops that remained in some previous time, which remained with machines, with equipment, a mobileist belonging to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or SFRY. So it was a very significant and real problem that we faced by passing these laws, but it wasn't the only one. I will remind you that in addition to equipment and mobileists, we had a teaching staff that had remained in some of the past times, who knew that he was training on these machines that were unusable, and whose students, therefore, our students who had attended this kind of teaching, had come out of that part of education with some knowledge that was not only unusable, but practically that knowledge had not brought them any benefits, nor had they played an impact and a role in their future employment. From that moment to today, therefore, I am talking about the adoption of the Law on Dual Education that we had in 2017 until today we have done, I would say, one really big and qualitative step. Why do I say that? Because I am witnessing the opening of a large number of information cabinets, because I am witnessing the opening and renovation and modernisation of a large number of school workshops. So, finally, we, let me say, have seen, have seen in the sense that we have realized that simply modernization, the monitoring of all modern scientific flows can bring well-being to our nation and what is most important to the young generation that is studying and which simply participates in this process of education as students, or students. What's even more important, and what I would especially like to commend is that this isn't about copying philosophy, when we talk about the bill. So it's not just about copy-paisy texts and laws being copied from developed Western countries. What's most important, the Dual Education Act must be adapted to our man, to our specificities, to our needs. I notice that a great deal of progress has been made in this regard and that this law is better than in 2017, because probably the people who wrote recognized the shortcomings of the previous one. Also, the essence of this law is the possibility for higher education institutions to sign contracts with economic operators and that they, in accordance with their real needs, scholarship students, pay tuition or otherwise participate in relief during their development and education. It's a very important thing, because we've had so far that when schooling practically students and students didn't have the opportunity to earn money. This is one good thing because it gives children a real chance not only to learn through education but also to have the possibility of a certain financial inflow and thus to make life easier and their parents. What I would say is, the greatest liquid of this bill is the relevance of education. It is explained here that the relevance of education is, in fact, the alignment of the labour market with higher education institutions. I would say that the relevance of education is, in fact, the importance of that knowledge, those skills that every student, every student, gets in the struggle of life, which is finding a job. So by increasing the relevance of education we come to the situation that young people come to work much easier because economic operators, therefore, businesses, primarily thanks to their skills, the skills of these young people, employ them more easily because of their own needs, and that is clear. What is particularly important is that we legal solutions, therefore, the Ministry of Education, or education, together with all the entities who participated in this together, and here I believe that our common parliament, therefore, has brought the relevantness of education into line with the other legal acts that we have adopted and which are in force. I would like to quote above all the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Higher Education, the National Qualifications Framework Act, which is also significant within all of this, which, together with dual education, therefore, in secondary education, and this present proposal of the Law actually makes one rounded continent in this whole educational segment. What is very important and what I would point out as important is that the bill itself will directly affect higher education institutions. So that's beyond doubt. I think higher education institutions will be stimulated to work better. How? By having to monitor the new needs of entrepreneurs or the manufacturing sector, because they will have to establish new education profiles. So the essential thing is to also stimulate educational institutions to reform. This is one way. Also through attractive study programs, through the introduction of new methods, through the introduction of new directions, we thus encourage students to learn. That's how we get high-school and high-school students. So the law is absolutely not only of quality, but I think it will act stimulatingly from higher education institutions through students who, above all, will have the opportunity to get more knowledge and skills to get compensation for what they do, which is not the case and what is particularly important, to get easier employment. Employers, on the other hand, are once again given the opportunity to act directly or indirectly on higher education institutions through their own needs and direct them and channel them in which direction school profiles should develop, along with getting a high school student, a young educated man who has more skills, more knowledge, practical knowledge along theoretically. There is definitely room for new innovative development ideas, etc. What I would like to appeal to the Ministry of Education is to pay attention to the control of employers about performing non-descriptive jobs, I'm talking about high school personnel. So you can't have a student who's at the end of studies for example at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering doing driver's work. It is described in the law, but first of all it is necessary to pay attention to the inspection supervision of these things. Again, that's where we go back to that moment of choosing the employers we're introducing into the dual education system. Therefore, this choice of employers must be valid with good analysis, so the companies involved in the dual education process must be representative and any negative experience with any employer punishes the termination of the contract or any other measure. As the conclusion of my presentation, I'd like first of all to indicate a change in the quality of the educational process. So with these reform laws, we get really one educational process in which we will have a significantly more motivated student and student and a significantly more motivated lecturer. That way, I think the entire education system will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60211	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60212	Thanks for the suggestion. I think we took care of that because the high school model was left with a pedagogical instructor, because children are still underage. Here we have a mentor who is responsible to us and on the other side of jurisdiction and inspects of work and education, so it's left behind. What is very important, I agree absolutely, and today I said, it is in our interest to make sure the best companies first, because when we talk about quality indicators, in general total higher education, not only of this dual model that will be one of the modules, but also of the opinion, we lead each student to complete, and later from pre-school, primary and secondary education through that unique educational number, everyone has a chance to show up in this further series, both where he works and where the employer works and for what amount he pays. It'll sort of be one of the quality indicators, but we can only do with the best employers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60213	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour and we're going to continue at 3:15 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the order of the People's MPs, according to the words, in a joint principled search, on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the agenda, the People's MP Daniela Stojadinovic is. Please sign in, colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60215	I thank the chairman, respected ministers and associates, today we are talking about the Law on Higher Education, adopted in 2017, through several legislative solutions, where a legal basis is given for regulating co-operation between higher education institutions and employers. Certain legal solutions gave the legal basis to improve the co-operation of higher education institutions and businesses, although they did not create a legal basis for introducing a dual model of study. The legal basis for the introduction of dual studies is precisely the bill we are discussing today - the draft law on the dual model of higher education. The dual model of study also treats the employer as well as the environment for learning and students and the higher education institution that wants and who has interest in the participation of their students in the dual model study. Dual studies are a practical type of learning, i.e. study training, with voluntary participation by all three interested parties, i.e. a group of students of a higher education institution and an employer. The comparative practice of developed countries has positive experiences, and the areas where dual studies are most often offered are economics, finance, management, techniques, engineering sciences, information technologies, health and medical science. The main goal of dual education, in fact, is to bridge the gap between the theoretical and practical knowledge acquired, and to quickly adapt to changes in the globalised economy that we seek. One of the countries that has a long and rich practice of dual studies is Germany where dual studies, study programs include all types of higher school institutions, but out of the total number, even 64% of this programme takes place in higher vocational schools, then 23% at professional schools, and only 7% at traditional universities and 6% at so-called dual high schools. A good example of applying a dual model of higher education studies in the public sector is also represented in France. The bill we are discussing today accurately determines all the conditions under which dual studies will take place. The relationship between theoretical teaching and practical training, i.e. a 450-hour fund, active teaching and 450 hours of learning through work, is thus foreseen. This in total weight of 900 hours corresponds to the maximum load prescribed by the applicable standards for accreditation of study programmes at higher education institutions. Therefore, there is no additional burden on students who opted for a dual model study. The dual model has proved excellent in technical and technological and medical sciences, and since I come from the world of medicine, or health care, I know how important this practical part of training and testing acquired theoretical knowledge is in practice. The dual model of study is not mandatory but represents a legal option that higher education institutions can and should use and enter into its realisation but only when they have provided cooperation with reliable and motivated employers. The introduction of dual education is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia as part of the 21st century primary objective of education. In Belgrade, for example, dual secondary education modes are already being conducted in ten secondary schools and about 30% of Serbian students are learning in secondary schools by a dual model of education. So 83 schools and about 600 companies. Thus, the introduction of a dual study model will represent a logical trail of things, i.e. it is more likely that students who participated in dual secondary education will also be defined for the dual model of studies. This will create not only educational but well-trained young experts, I see the goal of dual studies. On the other hand, it is important that the draft law on the dual model of higher education studies is adapted to the needs of Serbia's economy, and a space would be opened for the establishment of new scientific institutes. We live in a time in which change occurs quickly and where education is under great pressure and it is important that the education system adapts to these circumstances. I would take this opportunity to point out that here a week ago we opened a renovated elementary school in Svilajnc, OS Jovan Jovanovic Dragonj, that Svilajnac also has a high school and that a veterinary agricultural school with a boarding school and that in Svilajnc this system has been applied backwards for years, so that there is a Panasonic factory that uses these staff well. So, dual education in general, and in particular dual studies of co-operation with schools and colleges, will represent the wasteful good staff we need now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60216	Thank you, colleague Stojadinović. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60217	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Milicevic, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and this current Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ministry of Education, Mr. Minister of the Republic of Serbia, whose head you are headed in the framework of the 21st century education project has set the task, in addition to other arrangements for dual education. For the sake of the unbelieving Toms, in quotes, those who are not opposed to us, because they claimed that dual education in secondary education would not succeed, only one data, 7400 students, this for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and the MPs has already been brought to life in the process. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, now in force, the Law on Higher Education allows us to institutionalise co-operation between the economy, on the one hand, and higher education institutions, on the other hand, what our philosophers would say – between the world of work and the world of learning. This current law provided a legal basis to improve the co-operation between businesses and higher education institutions, particularly several members of the applicable law, along with other Articles 39, 60, 96 and others, not to mention them. However, this current law allows for study with work. Please, let's not get involved in working with the dual education model. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do and a fellow professor does. However, what is very important, which is in the dual model of study practical training, work or practice in the employer is part of the study programme. This is what fellow professors at universities know very well, which means studying at two different locations, this is very important, in a higher education institution, on the one hand, and companies, or businesses, on the other hand. Studying with work involves three groups of participants - students, higher education institutions and employers. It is very important for us to define the goal that the Ministry of Education has very well defined. When asked by parents what is the objective of this Law on dual education or dual education, the primary goal of dual education is to bridge gaps between theoretical and practical knowledge, but also to quickly adapt to changes in the globalised economy. That's very important. He was still saying that Lenin had no theory without practice, no practice without theory. Who will benefit from dual education? I'd like to, since our political opponents are looking at us from somewhere from home or from the office, let's tell them, they've always denied it, that no parents will benefit, not students, or students. First of all, high school institutions. Why? Well, it'll get more attractive and modern study programs. That's what every university knows very well, and that's what the Ministry of Education has put into this law. Second, who's next? Employers. Why employers? Because they establish close co-operation between colleges, or universities and employers' institutes. Students, this is very important. I especially address students, as dual studies increase their competences. That's very important. They're getting stronger competencies. There is a problem of employment, easier competitiveness on the market, etc. The Chamber of Commerce that runs the contract registers, the state, the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because dual education will contribute to the process of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by this government, Mr Minister, in which you are Minister of Education, most of the MPs in this high House, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Sixth, parents. Parents will benefit because they will be freed from study costs and at a very significant amount. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the point where we need to talk about the state of higher education until the SNS comes to power and after the SNS arrives. We have until we arrive at the authority of the Dosovic Camaril i.e. those from the Alliance for Serbia who walk the streets, street circuses, colleges, or universities were high, priceless and valuable temple of knowledge of scientific achievements, cultural range and pedagogical laboratory for the production of human beings that were the bearers of the overall progress of society and entered the world and European heritage of civilizations. That's what you old professors know very well, and that's what our history of pedagogy has already done. A deeper analysis, Mr. Minister, of research should also present to our and the world public generations of giants for the cathedral of our higher education institutions and generations of students among whom there are countless successful top scientific, cultural and pedagogical MPs, creators, visionaries, reformers, productive intellectuals, folk fighters and humanists. Let's ask ourselves, gentlemen Members of Parliament, university professors how much our colleges have enriched the world's, European, Balkan treasury by wetting the highest rank. Let's ask ourselves, and we'll find a very good answer until the DOS comes to power. This was so until coming to the power of the dosovo bulament, and then the dossova bulament of higher education, as well as the economy and state of robbery privatisation led to the lowest ranking in Serbia's history. University education, nor university pedagogy was interesting for Serbian society's Dossier tailors. The smaller and weaker the scientific and research work during their regime. They ran a campaign to create private academic institutions, but without accreditation. Don't get me wrong, I don't mind. However, I am for private institutions, but with accreditation. This has put the quality of the study at maximum risk. We, during the former regime, were not on the trail of the university of the future. Mr. Minister, you know very well, since you've experienced this very well, because the Dossovian government has been grumbling over the crisis and degraded university education, moving away from the progressive legacy of the foundation of the original function of the university. Here, they destroyed it. So DOS brought us to colleges the worst fit in the history of college and university, mostly without scientific references and adequate conditions. That's what the former regime delivered us. Education and science were robbed, as were the state. Imagine, Minister of Science Bozidar Djelic? Where is she now, mother of God? He damaged the Ministry of Science only for ten million, plus those from Meridian Bank. Former Minister Jovanovic knows this very well, he put it in his pocket and, as our people would say, seems abroad. There is no reform of education without personnel, the minister knows it well and is doing well now. Can you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, imagine that Dr. Jovo Bakic is working for the third time at the university? He is one of the protesters in the streets of the cities of the Republic of Serbia. You've seen, he's full of hate for political opponents, although he's not in any political party, but he is now. He performs in front of the Alliance for Serbia. He is full of hatred for the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, calling him by words that do not suit one intellectual and professor who before him were at this prestigious Belgrade university and university. For the third time, Professor Dr Jovo Bakic, believe it or not, gave the student, a master at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, quote - The role of "Pinka" and "Hypija" in the creation and reproduction of the cult of the leader and analysis of the content of the hosting of Aleksandr Vukic in the shows "Toughword" and "Cirilica", finished quote. It is as if I gave my student the theme: "The role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual prosacularism, diletantism, the case for the third time by Professor Dr Jovo Bakic". I ask my fellow professors, sociologists, social science historians, but also natural ones, did this topic he gave his master, mixing politics with teaching, and secondly, who did the professor of sociological, or scientific sources recommend to this student? No one would give that up for seminar work at all. The doctor for the third time, Dr. Jovo Bakic, said on 17.1.2014, quote – Aleksandar Vukic is an exterminator, Angela Merkel. It's a finished quote. It's just like I said -- third-cent doctor Jovo Bakic is Bill Clinton's usual asshole, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. The doctor told the doctor for the third time in June 2019 and called for an incursion into RTS long pipes. I quote: “Be careful, that they had long pipes, so if you point there, what will you do without long pipes? You go there and then you point a long tube at your colleagues' heads and you say, "Read the prepared text, we've just taken over." Otherwise, if you don't have long pipes, and you're in RTS, you haven't done anything unless you've connected the leading politicians. “ A complete quote, 13.6.2009. Can you believe, respected citizens, that this colleague works at the university, and that's at the prestigious Faculty of Philosophy, who has a tradition of extremely rich in professional, scientific and even patriotic tradition? For the third time, Doctor Jovo Bakic threatens force, so he says, "I quote, without force, this power will not go away, it will not because it is a mafia." It's a finished quote from 13.6.2009. Tell me I'm a mobster, colleagues? Shame on you, Doctor, for the third time, Grandma. You received an extraordinary profession as soon as you said and threatened street riots. You chose yourself as a doctor, your colleagues this month, in three months you became an extraordinary professor, when you went to spit on state authorities and on the state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The doctor for the third time, Professor Jovo Bakic, said on June 13th, 2019, that the Serbian parliament is a barn, and MPs are what is in the barn. He says, I quote, "They made parliament a barn, it's a barn, it's not MPs. Their intellectual level is zero. I'd like to chase them down the streets. “ A quote has been completed. Mr. Bucky, it's not the level of these MPs that we're chasing in the streets. We have a level of work, order, discipline, political competition in this high home, ideas of knowledge and responsibility. The doctor for the third time, Dr. Jovo Bakic, daily, without any shame and shame, muddled the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. So in 19.3.2019, he told disgusting lies. I quote -- that President Vukic has friends who trade drugs, and he's setting up state affairs for them. It's a finished quote. Shame on you, Mr. Bucky, without any evidence, you're defiled by the president of your country. For the third time, doctor Jovo Bakic humiliates women on a daily basis. On March 30th, 2008, he said, quoting: "The problem facing the unions is the feminisation of the union." But his faith. For the third time, Dr. Jovo Bakic called for armed forces and spilling blood on the streets. He said, quote -- the armed force is the only way to shift power, and the key question is to make as little blood as possible. It's a finished quote. This leaves no comment. The doctor for the third time, Dr. Jovo Bakic, is one of the protest participants. He invited all the street councilmen to occupy the RTS building with long pipes. This time he went on to "The Imprint of the Week", as I quote -- the victory of the opposition will be when representatives of the government and the authorities swim across the Danube and Sava. It's a finished quote. This is what they were looking for and only doing Ustashas during NDH. Through Sava, baskets of children's heads floated and were written on the basket – right for Jovan's market in Belgrade. He probably read it, so so would he political opponents and these in power. On the stands he said, quote - victory would be if they were seen swimming in Savi and Dunawa. In that stands was Dragan Gilas, a former Gicky Mafia doctor, Dr Zoran Lutovac, called a stray. You've seen that he's lost his way into politics. They didn't fence themselves from his brutal lies. What do you want from NGOs, Members of the People's Parliament? What do you want from NGOs? So DOS hired some Goran Markovic, a people called the bumblebee, as professor of the university. Now you'll see, respected citizens, who's a professor of university. On July 4, 2019, he said that Alexander Vukic, quote, is a primitive figure, and the crowd is its natural environment. It's a finished quote. No shame, no shame. Goran Markovic, called the bumblebee, in the people more famous for his colleagues, said on August 30, 2019, quote – our authority is terrorist, and sources are organised by a group of bandits. It's a finished quote. Did Goran Markovic ever say that the Cypriot government is terrorist? Of course not. Did he ever say that during Franjo Tudjman, the Croatian government was terrorist, evicted 500,000 Serbs from the Republic of Croatia? Of course not. I recommend that the so-called director, under the allegations, that all the said abominations about Alexander Vukic and the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia be collected, framed and placed on the wall of its living room to remind itself daily of its highest artistic range and the high degree of its personal culture. Every morning when he wakes up, gets up and washes, he can look in the mirror. He will see a bloated bumblebee, full of hate for Serbs and President Vukic, who has been lying in it for the past 20 years, speaks for Serbs all the time. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when he learns that Alexander Vukic is his president and he claims not to, but when he realizes that hate will explode and destroy him himself. God help him. Professor Dr. Rada Trajkovic, a university professor, is constantly lying, not to tell the truth, but to lie, has lied that Republika Srpska has put a group of people on KIM to pressure Serbs to vote for the Serbian list in 7.9.2019. Shame it was. Furthermore, Professor Rada Trajkovic said, I quote -- the greatest evil that has hit us from the Serbian state, its own president and Serbs. It's a finished quote. She says that Serbs were not inflicted on KIM by Cypriot terrorists Haradinaj, Thaci and Happy, but by their own state and their own people. Can you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, professors of the university, believe this teacher teaches at medical school? Professor Rada Trajkovic openly advocates abolishing the proposal for a compromise settlement of the KIM issue between Belgrade and Pristina. It advocates being a total Cypriot Kosovo. Professor Dr. Rada Trajkovic advocates that the entire KiM be Kosovo, regardless of Serbia. She accused the president of burning down the U.S. embassy. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, never in Serbia's history has such a lie been uttered by anyone in the greatest heat of political struggle, such as Prof. Dr. Rada Trajkovic. She did not trust Serbs with the Rada Trajkovic when they spoke of the "yellow house", the trafficking of Serb organ abductions. You remember, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that. She never cared, nor rebuked that the Cypriot authorities held Oliver Ivanovic in prison, she did not say a single word. What does that tell you, People's MPs, honourable citizens, answer for yourself. Rada Trajkovic, together with Kushner, Minister of Foreign Affairs of France in 2010 when asked about the trafficking of Serb authorities – is he involved, he was asked by journalists with the presence of Prof. Dr. Rade Trajkovic. Kouchner replied, quote - don't believe everything he writes. I quote his words - which means that me and Rada were taking corpses and stealing organs. It's a finished quote. That's what I leave to our historical science to determine. Professor Dr. Rada Trajkovic called our "Cobra" the ugliest words, what no one has ever called in Serbia's history. I quote -- this in front of the Serbian presidency is just some "snaps" that make a fool out of themselves for the sake of a dictator, completed a quote on 9 August 2019, and members of the "Cobra" only did their job on 17 August 2019. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Rada Trajkovic has a daughter and did not think about her when she insulted the Kobri members. How would Professor Rada Trajkovic feel if her daughter had been called "a boob" while she was just doing her job? Professor Dr. Rada Trajkovic has never and never offended members of the Cypriot police, never and never said a word at Haradinaj's expense and never said one word at the expense of Thaci. Dear citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, I particularly address you Serbian nationality, close ranks, vote for the Serbian list. I'm calling on teachers, colleagues, former students, citizens who know me very well, so you're not going to go to Rada Trajkovic, see where she would lead you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this is the time to talk openly about some professors. Next in line is Professor Dr Dubravka Stojanovic. It's a professor at the Faculty of Philosophy here in Belgrade, teaching history. Can you believe that she said on February 17th 2014, I quote -- Serbia lost 700,000 residents in World War I and thus reduced the number of Serb victims by 400,000. It's a finished quote. This ranks the largest forgers of the number of Serbian victims, not only in World War I, but also in World War II with historians and scientists Dr. Franjo Tudjman, academician Stephen Sense, who claims that only 5,000 people were killed in Jasenovac, and not all of them, respected ministers. Dear Prof. Dr. Stojanovic opposes raising the monument to Serbian heroes Milan Tepic and Gavril Principe and marking the criminal action "Storm", and that is not all, and teaches history at the Faculty of Philosophy. The distinguished teacher said, quote - that Gabriel is a terrorist principle, not an assassin. It's a finished quote. It's just in Austrian and German textbooks. Professor Dr Stojanovic insists that, I quote -- Serbia gives up Kosovo and Metohija, Republika Srpska. It's a finished quote. Can you believe he said this to the university professor and taught to the students? Under criminal law, 305 to 315, she'd be in jail. How many, respected professors, take the Law, and you'll see. During the Book of Milos, I'm not going to comment, look, some political opponent of mine said he was invited to murder. No, at that time you know what that member meant, and today you'd be serving up to 15 years in prison, sure. Furthermore, Professor Stojanovic said, and the historian, I quote -- that Serbia's biggest problem has won the wars. It's a finished quote. What does that mean, respected citizens of Serbia? That we were supposed to be losers, fascists, and this is the time to distract now, Mr. Minister, our citizens. Don't be moody because the government of the Republic of Serbia has not been invited to Poland to mark the start of World War II. Neither you nor the Government nor the Prime Minister nor the President of the Republic. You know what they marked? The beginning of World War II, not the day of victory over fascism. It's not our place, it's our next place, 75 years of victory over fascism in Russia, and that's where we and Russia will meet. You know what they were celebrating? You can figure it out yourself. Look in the press. The beginning of World War II. It's a terrible thing. The distinguished professor doesn't know, but she should know that the winning and free spirit of the Serbian people is an integral element of Serbian national identity, and it has kept us alive for centuries. On the 19th of 2008 she said, quote -- that the same elites that made war in Serbia are in their interest to forget responsibility. It's a finished quote. There are no MPs, gentlemen, a serious scientist in the West, historians, and not to claim that the war was caused by the United States, the EU, Germany and the Vatican. Only our domestic NATO dusters claim that. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, it's a very important shot. I said my position on dual education. You have done tremendously in reforming education and education. You know very well, as an experienced man, that Serbia has been conducting the modernisation of the last seven, eight years, and modernising education and education is an integral part of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia that we, your government, most citizens, the engine of accelerated modernisation of Serbia, our distinguished President, Mr. Vukic. For this teacher, let's just say that she works at the university that in World War I gave 57 lives of students for this country, let's be ashamed to work in that part, and seven university professors gave their lives, 35% of academic youth lost their lives in World War I. In the end, how important it is to be a teacher, a teacher, a teacher, whatever you want, and the most beautiful thing is to be a teacher in life. I speak to you as a historian and a pedagogue. I will end with this quote, respected MPs, citizens of Serbia, "Learn the child's number, put letters in words, read, write, delete, understand, know, only a small part of what the teacher really is. I don't mean to say what a teacher does because being a teacher isn't a job. To be a teacher is to love, to be a teacher is to feel, to be a teacher is to be a teacher, to be a teacher is simply to be." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60218	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, colleague Mihaylovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60219	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, we are considering a set of laws in the field of education and science at this session. In the context of today's search, we are specifically talking about proposals for a law on dual model of higher education studies and another new law, which is a bill on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. So, these points of the agenda, these topics actually happen to go one step at a time in the next system and in the further reform of education in our country, and so we move forward with the time that requires new laws, new proposals, new ways, because time brings about what's unorthodox, which is that we need to follow new achievements and new solutions to find to be as effective as possible in what needs to be done tomorrow by people who finish school. Dual education as a model in secondary education has already come into life, i.e. it will be applied since this school year in the form of a pilot trial programme in 80 schools and 52 cities. The experience of this model in secondary education will therefore be seen in the following year, although this model has practically been brought to life before the adoption of the Law on secondary dual education and already several hundred students, i.e. high school students went through dual education. Of course, this model is not a total newspaper, because in the previous decades, however, in a different way, education in secondary schools was done in the appropriate manner, with compulsory practical training in companies from the profession. The introduction of a dual model into higher education is another step in reforming our education system, especially from the aspect of its ability to respond to the needs of a very flexible and often variable labour market. It is precisely the need for this model that comes from the need for economy, so today at a time of high technology and rapid changes in the market for goods and services is not enough for the labour market only acquired theoretical knowledge at the university, whether academic or professional studies are at stake, especially in the world of natural sciences. Experiences in developed countries of the world confirm that the dual model in higher education that has been present with us so far in the form of student practice enables even more intensive acquisition of practical knowledge, i.e. application in universities acquired theoretical knowledge in practice, in the real world of work, in production, but also in other sciences. We often listened to employers' views that education does not educate staff for labour market needs, for their needs, that the graduate students of higher education institutions have solid theoretical knowledge, but that they are not ready to engage in the technological process of a specific economic operator without further education. I think with this law and this one more step of reforming our schooling, the ball is thrown into the employer's yard. In particular, by introducing a dual model in higher education, we make students fully master the specifics and technological process in the economy and thus draw closer to what they need to be experts in one company in a single business organization quite ready, to end up with all the details of the technological process in the company. This is achieved through learning, meaning at the university through the theoretical knowledge that they acquire, but also through practical work in the company itself, i.e. the company or the business entity itself. The law does not foresee this educational model as binding for higher education institutions. The law only provides a legal framework that enables all higher education institutions to include their students in the course of the study in a practical world of work, so that they are ready to link theory and practice more fully after the completion of the studies, but on the other hand, it is also an invitation to those in the economy, those in the world of work to be interested in such a kind of education that solves their problem and the issue of experts who fully control the technological process that is present in their companies, in their businesses, their factories, etc. Employers who decide to enter the dual education system in this way are given the opportunity to practically educate interested students, and the best they can do at the end of the study is for mutual benefit. Dual higher education is conceptd according to the same principles as secondary dual education. In order to implement higher dual education programmes, the law provides for the conclusion of a contract between colleges and employers on the one hand as well as between employers and students on the other hand, and thus students receive the compensation set out in this law. The same fabric is also protected from all forms of discrimination, abuse under all applicable rules, in particular labour regulations, health protection at work and pension and disability insurance. Let's remind ourselves that there is now a student practice in certain areas of higher education, especially in the field of natural sciences. I would especially point out here medical sciences, agriculture, veterinary and others, but this law is closer to regulating all conditions and procedures for participation in the dual model of higher education. The law regulates the obligations of higher education institutions, as well as employers who want to be involved in this kind of education. Also, to remind myself that the creation of a legal framework for higher dual education was in some way initiated by the adoption of the Law on Higher Education in 2017, when legal basis was given through several legal solutions to regulate co-operation between higher education institutions and employers. So, the dual model of higher education again, although in very other social and market conditions, since the former, harmonizes the needs of working with the education system. In this way, especially in the sector of natural sciences, education and work will be linked more quickly. Young people who go through a dual model get a chance to get to work faster, first of all with employers who participated in dual education, and their pawning and participation in the education process, in the process of education, in what is their engagement in the employers' space, actually gives them a chance to impose themselves as good workers, as good experts who will benefit their employer tomorrow. All this gives hope that for a certain period of time we will be able to keep as many young, highly educated experts here as possible, not to finish colleges in Serbia, but to look for work somewhere outside our country. I believe that the basic objective of this law is just that, for young and educated people to stay here. Also, I believe that both higher education institutions and students and employers, but also the state will benefit from a dual model of higher education studies. The SPS parliamentary group, as said by the authorised representative, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic will certainly vote for these and other laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60220	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60221	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this is a very important bill and dual education proposal, so dual higher education will be one of the main tools for the development of our economy and for the better and better quality education of our young people in terms of their practical training, i.e. training that they are fully prepared and prepared for their performance on the labour market, employment in private companies, state companies. But what is very important, through our work and learning in the context of higher dual education, the development of an entrepreneurial spirit, we expect positive effects to be to develop an entrepreneurial spirit among our young people and to be a new source of private initiatives, i.e. entrepreneurial initiatives and to create a stronger, stronger, more aggressive entrepreneurial society in our country. This initiative continues with what we have already adopted in parliament, which is dual secondary education and all congratulations and gratitude to Minister Sarčević, as well as members of his team, and Gabrieli, Professor Tubić and all those who have been involved in the promotion of secondary dual education for years, but also in the potential of high dual education in our country. All that we can expect when it comes to positive effects, and we can also make sure that it exists in countries that have highly developed and strong social, market economies with express entrepreneurship, with expressed private initiatives and countries that do not in fact have a problem with the departure, i.e. the migration of young people, which are Germany, Switzerland, Austria. These are the countries to which in this domain, including Hungary, I have forgotten, we see and what are very well this tool and this possibility of dual higher education to take advantage of their young staff, young people can position themselves best on the labour market and to have as many entrepreneurial business initiatives as possible. It is very important to say that these initiatives on dual higher education involve a strong, strong co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, with business representatives. What is also important is that co-operation is extended to all those, as I would say, representative business associations, and that is the American Chamber of Commerce, the Alliance of Foreign Investors, NAED. So, all those who gather businessmen and those who can help their resources, their knowledge in the process of connecting the needs of the economy and the implementation of the strategic plan, the economic development of our country and the alignment with what they have as their own curricula, highly educated institutions. This is really going to be one quantum leap in the area of higher education. What is very important and without what this, as well as the idea, as an initiative, as something that will contribute to the development of our economy definitely and the remnant of our young people in Serbia, is what has been done in the past few years on the economic plan, on economic reforms, economic growth and development, what Aleksandar Vucic, as prime minister then and today as president, realised, and today as a result, we have according to the British Financial Times 5.8 billion euros of current investments that are made in the Republic of Serbia. This is economic growth last year from about 4.1% and 3.3 billion euros in investment. During the first six-month period of this year, there were over two billion euros in investments in our country. We are definitely champions in foreign direct investment when it comes not only to the Western Balkans region, but to the region of Southeast and Central Europe. We can expect four billion euros in investment by the end of the year, which is more than all countries in this region have combined. Why am I talking about investment? For the reason that all these companies or one large part of them, the companies that come to invest, invest money here, they also set up their research and development centres, they cause this so-called. In order for economists to say that by spilling the effect, they bring new technologies, new knowledge, new management models that are very important for the very perspective of our economy, to connect and what our higher education institutions in that domain need to see and be oriented to be able to qualify as many people as possible and to school for the needs of these serious companies that come here. I'll just list a few of them, and they're "Continental", "Berlin Hemi", "Nestle". They're companies, not to mention American NCRs that have their development centres here, and that's the first time in decades, that we have companies that have a plan to invest in Serbia in the long term, to invest in labour from Serbia. It is an opportunity that the country's president himself, but Minister Sarcevic also noticed that it is an opportunity and a developmental opportunity for Serbia. It seems to me that our country has never invested in education and science like it did in previous years, but what's the difference between this period and the period and the period before, is to see the effects of investing in science, in education, is that these effects are seen in such a way as to increase GDP here in our country, which increases the level of investment and what is the main goal of this government and our country, so this government is to lower the percentage of unemployed people. I'm sure by 2020, we'll have unemployment below 10% by the end of next year. It is a policy of patriotism, a policy of economic growth and development drawn up by President Vukic and which, of course, will be supported by the majority of MPs. What my party, SDPS, advocates, is another appeal to invest even more, even more strongly in secondary education and to come to a common consensus that secondary education is mandatory, but also to encourage, the minister talked about it and mentioned the IT sector in our country that makes more than one billion euros. We have great individuals, great companies, I will only mention "Nordeus", which at the world level, which is world-famous and which has huge incomes, which is huge potential and which remains here in Serbia, this dual higher education tells us that we will have the capacity at our higher education institutions to educate the best, best-quality and most capable people precisely for companies such as NCR, such as "Nordeus", such as "Continental", such as many other companies that have come to Serbia, who have recognised Serbia as the best possible investment destination, not only in the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe, but also across Europe. It will be a policy that we will focus on and focus on in the next period, a job, a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, new opportunities, new companies, young people, development, modernisation. Of course, it would be better if we had more quality associates and conversators who were our opponents. I have to say that there are and there are always, here, let's say, with representatives of the radical party, we have a serious, constructive dialogue on the potential effects of economic development, political development. Of course, many times we disagree, but I can't understand that there are those who are never good but who never have absolutely no proposal, would rather arrest their political opponents, threaten to crash, which, of course, the people of Serbia will never allow, given that support for Alexander Vukic, the support of our majority is being seen in about 60%. So we proved it yesterday in Medvedja, 63% was the result, about 66%, 67% of the output. There, so much about the boycott, that's so much about what the people of the Republic of Serbia think about this policy, and finally about the dual education and investment of education in science in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60222	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60223	Dear Vice-President, honourable Minister Sarcevic and his associates from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, distinguished fellows and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, counterpart Marinkovic encouraged me when he spoke of dual education and patriotism policy that, I quote Dragan Markovic Palm, who said patriotism is not poured into the tractor and that the patriot is the one who invests in education and who opens at least one new job in Serbia. I'll talk about dual education, high school. All praise to you, Minister Sarčević and the Ministry of Education. We have passed the Dual Education Act when it comes to secondary schools and now, in continuity, we are also passing a new law on dual education of higher education institutions, which is very important for the Republic of Serbia, for our students, for the economy and for the state. Of course, and to bring new investments, new investors, because this way we will have a new, ready, professional frame and we will stop the outflow of young people from our country to abroad, where they will be able to work immediately after the studies have been completed. On behalf of the Single Serbia, I would also like to highlight the dignity of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education because this important issue in the area of education and an important issue for young people, for students, put the agenda of this assembly session on the agenda. Of course, the Single Serbia parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palme will support the proposed legislative proposals, as it is very important for us how many countries, how much the ministry cares about young people, how much it invests in education, how much it invests in higher education institutions. We certainly want together with you to fight against the white plague, to have more and more students enrolled in schools each year, but also to enroll more and more students in colleges. This is the only time Serbia's prosperity and the way we can fight it and get our education and schools a high quality of work. If we look back on the past, when the state started starting schools, after the uprising, it was intended to build good and quality institutions. Many bad years have passed behind us and in this term where you are Minister of Education, your ministry has proposed and we have passed almost 30 laws here. These were very difficult reforms that the ministry also submitted, both education and students and educators, but those reforms cannot be seen within the short term. It simply takes some time to pass, and we expect that by 2023, 2024, it will be possible to see the first results of reforms and pre-school institutions, primary, secondary and now higher education. What's most important is that the most valuable thing was to invest in science, to invest the most in the informational literacy of students and students. You have now announced new bill proposals within your ministry, when it comes to robotic literacy or investment in robotics. Then, when it comes to funding science and higher education, the Republic of Serbia now has enough resources to finance science, to finance its students, both in the country and abroad, but also in the coming period to restore that reputation to our institutions and bring foreign tourists to studies in our country. We in Unique Serbia see raising the quality of education, investing in science, investing in school and creating conditions for a more quality work, which you insist on. Some things you did very quickly, we've already said, where it went when it comes to natural sciences, and I think that when it comes to social sciences, the same thing should be paid attention. For example, so far, there has been a certain professional practice in law school and political science, and believe that this is very important because, for a finished student, there is some basic knowledge that is needed. Because, after all, not everyone can be employed in the public sector and the employer is looking for some basic knowledge, so this dual education will also enable employers, you have announced that by the end of the year there will be this public identification number, where you can also see about the student, about the practice, about the knowledge he owns, and therefore there will be more opportunities when there is a practice to be employed by the employer. The most important thing is to stop the outflow of young people, not just from Serbia abroad. We have a big problem when it comes to the outflows of young people from smaller municipalities and cities to large cities, as well as from villages to cities. There's a lot of work going on, but there's a certain period to go on, especially in the smaller local environments, a large number of students no longer return to their local environments. This way, by bringing investors, by training the economy, young people will see a chance to return to their local environments where they live and where their families live and to continue and to start their family. When it comes to dual education, Jagodina, with special satisfaction, cited as one of the good examples, when it comes to dual secondary education, where you specifically pointed out that local self-government has done more than its opportunities and that it is done with the heart, so perhaps there is the first model of that dual education applied. Some say this can't be applied immediately. Of course he can't, but we've had in high school education for the first thousand, so three thousand, there are now seven thousand students, so we expect it to be so when it comes to higher education. We expect that Serbia will continue this way of reform, continue to renovate schools, both parent and rural schools, because the latest history has shown that education is the foundation of our society. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will certainly support both proposals for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60224	Thank you, colleague Vujic Obradovic. The word has a representative of promoter Mladen Sarcevic, minister of education, science and technological development. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60225	Thank you. You've been inspiring, so I'm obliged to say about what we're planning for next year in the domain of dual, now and at the level of high school and higher education. Of course, when we talk about high school, we're talking about high professional and we've already done a huge job by doing a great reform of vocational schools in less than a year, and we're already doing a staff analysis. You'll see how surprised the public will be that we've even found a much worse picture than we expected. There's a chance again for young people, but funding will go professionally on a different agenda than university. They just have to find places to cover the economy, and that's the kind of funding they're going to be, that's just going to make them. Where the country's great resources are, we follow it as the Ministry, along with the Chamber of Commerce and Councilors of the Presidents of the Republic and other teams, it's primarily the dedicated industry. There are growing many profiles and here we go slowly, looking for the absolute safety of the candidates doing so to be provided and not to be in contact with dangerous substances. The banking sector in Switzerland is completely dual, and we're going to start there with a couple of colleges for banking, the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and look to go with banks and break the name about data protection, which we have to work with them a lot on, and then the banking technician is someone who also works at school, working in a dual model. The area of intellectually interesting professions for children in the field of socio-humanist science are also the area of audit and audit houses, so all that the market shows is important, 4.0 industry is still our focus, not only aircraft, but also automotive and all other industries. Also, due to the arrival of a large number of companies in the area of the tire manufacturing sector, so we're going to go to that part, that's when you take what's in high school, what's on high, about seven profiles are already being created for the next year's enrolment season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60226	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will take this opportunity to congratulate our girls, our volleyball players on the just won title of champion of Europe, more precisely, or more precisely, to defend the titles, which I think is a greater success, because it is easier to become than to survive. Before moving to this topic and the Proposal for a Law on the Dual Model of Higher Education Studies and this second Proposal for a Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, I must point out one finding, which is that this Ministry and this minister is the most common guest in the National Assembly. Here, but, I don't know which way, the laws in this area are in front of the MPs, so they get the impression that science and education are on the clock in the work of this government. Here, there's laws coming out of this area next week. Right now, let me say, it's good to think, to talk, how to do this, in my opinion, the most important social activity. When I say this, I don't think I'm exaggerating because education produces knowledge, and knowledge is the most wanted and expensive product on the world market of goods and products. Here I would add that in a lot of definitions, clarifications and explanations of the phenomena of knowledge and education, I would underline one common, that is that knowledge and education are the way to good. As regards the Proposal for a Law on the dual model of higher education studies, it is continued and is based on the previous law that we passed a year, two days ago, which refers to the Law on dual education. These bill proposals speak exactly how important this is. Education shapes the future of every society, creates and predicts its development especially if it is a society in transition. There are still many more questions on this issue than there are answers, and the state must provide answers to all education issues. For the time being, most of the time, our country has been changing models, systems, importing other people's solutions, which is not the most acceptable thing for this area and its effects. People and institutions, ideologies, policies with solutions like this, or those. Ladies and gentlemen, these laws regulate an area of general importance, and therefore, of particular interest, which means that there is no ambiguity, guessing, inaccuracy, bidding and improvisation. Education doesn't suffer sudden and rapid changes, it doesn't tolerate symmetry, because it conveys knowledge to young people, and that's why every change, not to talk about reform, must be well planned and designed. In this context, I would like to apostrophe one Russian saying that reads – that all great things are done slowly. You, Mr. Minister, like me, as well as a lot of colleagues in this room, we remember earlier times, some steps, or call, attempts at reforming this area, whose disastrous consequences seem to me, are still feeling. Ladies and gentlemen, the general discussion of Europe continues about the EU and these educational laws. The European dimension of education does not solve the problem of small and large culture relations in Europe or the relationship between their education systems. Education towards European society, yes, but education for Europe also involves the first step that must be primary, which is education for the nation. It is common knowledge that the biggest differences in education systems are right in Europe. Education is a work of large and wide multidisciplinary content and as such must not be a product or product of one opinion, one vision or one idea. It requires a high degree of intellectual, ethical and valuable independence. In both the draft laws and the draft law on the dual model of studies and the Law on Professional Qualifications, subjectivity has been highlighted in understanding the problem, and despite the tenacity of this ministry and the minister himself, the West in theoretical and practical doubt, transplantation, or other experiences. Dear People's MPs, the relationship between reformers and conservatives is a matter of measure, courage and specificity of conditions. There are no valid solutions for new educational generations if there is no critical public, and I think that's exactly our case. A good system of education cannot eliminate the legacy of the past, but not the knowledge of modern values. Whether such an important activity to the extent that it helps the overall social balance will soon be seen. I must admit that even the above examples of the proposal for a law on dual education do not seem too convincing or at least seem to me, here I am specifically referring to the experiences that you have cited, Germany, France and Hungary, above all. All of this is in some way illustrated by very modest public debates on bill proposals, for a short time, a small number of participants, mostly soloists, a small number of remarks, proposals and suggestions that are generally rejected. Dear colleagues, the problems of educational reality are still greater in the social environment, states, society, nations, media, and smaller within the education system itself. Problems are related to political and professional, national and foreign, the absence of a balance between national and European. The theme of these laws is business in education. What's paid and what gets for the money that the state, the parent and the entrepreneur single out. The question, whether the expansion of businesses in education contributes to its quality, is whether the way knowledge is passed on to young people is a purely technical issue. The question of the deal, the three-party deal, who is the guarantee to whom? There were signs of equality between knowledge in education and knowledge in business. That relationship isn't even a little one-way. Will new legal solutions give us the knowledge of unemployment or the knowledge of work? Ladies and gentlemen, and the draft law on the dual model of higher education studies and the draft law on professional qualifications are laws for Serbia's European future, if so and when it is, therefore, very hypothetical. The SRS' attitude towards the EU is principled and I think it is known to everyone. I should say here a personal finding that I will run a hundred meters below ten seconds before Serbia becomes a full member of the EU within these existing borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60228	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60229	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Sarčević and his associates, have so far spoken about dual education mainly within the framework of secondary vocational education and we spoke at more working sessions in this term about how dual education will have benefits for students, for economy and for education itself. Now there are conditions to talk about a dual model in higher education. In 2017 we gave the opportunity to adopt the Law on Higher Education, in fact we created a legal basis for establishing co-operation between high school institutions on the one hand and employers on the other. So far, thanks to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have brought the educational system to a point where it can change, when it can suffer changes, and we have seen from this material that we have received that dual education has given positive effects, or a dual model of studies in higher education, that it has given positive effects in many European countries. The dual model of studies, therefore, will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in the reform of the education system, such as increasing the employability of students or those who have completed their studies and their relationship with the economy through which the teaching process will be updated. Also, students of the dual model and this is very positive, will have the opportunity to participate in the research process or contribute to the development of the research process because companies will certainly co-operate with universities. On the other hand, it will be of great importance to them because they will be able to acquire new knowledge and skills, new experiences, and for future co-operation they will also be able to gain contacts for future co-operation and for the next day for employment. What I wanted to ask you, Mr. Sarčević, is, since I graduated from law school and I've talked to some students before, some particular example of how a dual model of higher education would specifically reflect on lawyers or graduate lawyers the next day? In one part of my speech, I want to look back on a part of the opposition that is not in the room today, they are, of course, hiding behind that boycott of theirs because of the expected debacle in the election. They are obviously not interested in questions, and they have shown it and have shown it months ago that they are not interested in issues concerning citizens. Here, today they are not interested in issues concerning higher education and our students, which we are discussing, nor are they interested in what laws we are going to pass. They are only interested in the fact that Alexander Vukic is not participating in the election. All their ideas, all their demands are directed at that one thing only. Here, we also see these gatherings held at the Faculty of Political Sciences, look at what their demands are and what the topics are, what topics they want to discuss. They object to us, they say – electoral laws are bad. Of course, Alexander Vukic is to blame for it, regardless of what those laws have just passed. If we remember, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed in 2000, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties was adopted in 2011. They, of course, say these are Wolf's laws that are bad. How it is possible that these laws were then good and that then the elections were fair and democratic and that today these same laws they passed, which apply, affect the fact that the electoral process is allegedly not well regulated. So from day to day, they are becoming more nervous as the parliamentary elections nearer, but thus show us from day to day that only and only fear defeat in the elections of Alexander Vukic and SNS. This was also shown today by Zoran Zivkovic at his press conference. He praised that we had invited the OSCE, that the Serbian government had called on the OSCE to monitor the election process and suddenly it turned out that it was not enough either. Of course, he concluded that Alexander Vukic would hand over the power peacefully. Of course, a bunch of insults addressed to Alexander Vukic, as he embarrasses Serbia and all sorts of similar nonsense that offends Alexander Vukic and SNS. I don't remember Alexander Vukic coming to the National Assembly once drunk, nor do I remember Alexander Vukic burning this tall house, taking out chairs and pictures of it, nor do I remember Alexander Vukic using protests to come to some function just like Zoran Zivkovic did. Of course, Zorana Zivkovica doesn't want the people, he knows it. The people won't vote for him, he knows it. That's why he's hiding behind these press conferences instead of coming here in the O.R. to do his job and that today we're actually actually discussing these draft laws that are on the agenda. Just so Zoran Zivkovic knows, Aleksandar Vucic will not withdraw, Aleksandar Vucic and SNS will continue to fight for Serbia, which should be a modern and developed country, which should move forward with all other countries, and certainly because of a press conference by Zoran Zivkovic, Aleksandar Vukic will not withdraw. For this reason, I am now addressing the citizens of Serbia, which is why dear Serbian citizens these important leaders of the Alliance for Serbia lie to you every day, and you put on one side their lies and their inventions, and on the other hand put on the work and the results of Alexander Vukic and SNS and will only tell you why they are actually afraid to go to the elections. In that sense, and with this I will finish my presentation, I would like to congratulate Alexander Vukic and SNS, of course both the foreigners and the Medvedja Committee on winning the local elections in Medvedja, and in the course of the boycott, the turnout was record, and all the people Bosko Obradovic calls poor people who are forced to vote, with 65% welcome Boško Obradovic and the Alliance for Serbia and send them a message - whatever you call us, whether we are fragile, whether we are botins, whether we are sandwichrs, we will support Alexander Vuk and SNS, because this is the only policy that can lead Serbia further and which will have the support of the people, so ladies and gentlemen of the Union for Serbia think a little bit when these parliamentary elections are still coming to you, think about 65%, the results in Medveđa, so we will see what results will be in parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60230	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60231	Thank you, colleague. Before I say about what my idea is that we can include lawyers in this system, and in many places, certainly, and through the notary part, the executive part, the legal part, various companies that deal with international law and specific to our protections, and also, tomorrow we will have a united debate on intellectual property where we form a whole new association that cares about the rights of certain performers, where there really is a lot of money and that this is a very specific commodity, I think that this specificity is very important and that I am a college can create certain groups and modules, I have already mentioned for the economic what is possible, but what is important and not to forget here when we start today, here when we are talking about the best colleges currently in Serbia, they have participated behind this law, meaning Masesian in Belgrade, Electronic in Belgrade, Electrical in Belgrade, Medical in Belgrade, Medical in Belgrade, Medical in Belgrade, and in Belgrade are very high education, and in Belgrade, they are very high education. I'll tell you the anecdote of two years ago, when we were doing the Dulno Act in high school, there came a man who has a company that manufactures machines designated to establish contact with the Dean of Engineering, which I did, of course, and at my office he offered 20 scholarships, the dean said I don't have one student who would accept the scholarship because they're all busy. So what we're saying here is that, first of all, there's going to be the one that's highly trained and most qualified to stay here, which is a signal to what we've been talking about, which is that if you don't have the MTU here, if you don't have the professional power, if you don't get the recognized companies that have development centers, if I tell you that intensive thanks to the president, we're talking to Chinese partners about artificial intelligence and the robot production plant here, which requires and training centers and development center again for 120 young engineers' sciences, which is a huge venture. So everything we've done together in Parliament, bringing laws and sciences, about the fund, etc., is a new elan and giving some totally different dimension. That it is not a phrase that Serbia's society is in the direction of building its values on knowledge, says the fact that this year over a thousand students have been included in high school IT and computer science programmes. It's not a phrase, if we've recently seen in Estonia that in three years we've arrived at something that people do 20, that we can lower the fifth grade programming to a teacher level. Of course, the first two years don't exactly have that coding function, but it's been done since the third base. That we're in a position to have almost all the schools by the end of the year with these mini robots and a series of other things where kids practically practice what they learn through programming. So it's all part of the purpose for itself. Partly, other items are intended to serve information and other technologies as well. But what Professor Atlagic said, I think it is very, very important, by taking steps that are fast, which are coming to the technological development of the modern most developed part of Europe, is the fact that we have to work on the educational function of the institution. What you were talking about earlier, the behavior of certain I would not say leader, you can't be a leader if you behave like that, if Professor Radenovic said in front of the entire journalistic suite that the president of the state doesn't have the capacity for a dictator, he simply can't be, he wasn't born for it, and he gave him a compliment that he didn't expect, really, it's just a lack of street power to show how eager the authorities are in one way, and that's maybe burning up the Assembly and losing patience. So what we're doing is much more important for the future of children and Serbia. That's what parents and citizens recognize and that's where that trust comes from, and it's our job to do it more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60232	Thank you. Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60233	I just want to thank you for answering my question and for this explanation. It is a big thing that students hear the explanation and hear from you what will actually mean the application of this law in practice, that positive effects are expected not only in terms of contributing to the development of education, but also in terms of seeing those who have completed colleges. I thank you and will support, of course, these proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60234	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, these two laws that are now on the agenda and discussion of most fellow Members of the People's Parliament seem a bit like a four-act musical symphony, but not that pastoral Beethoven, but this one we're talking about. Mr. Minister, we have several previous issues to address before, and then think about serious dual education in the higher education system. You well know what countries preceding dual education, that in the United States in the early 20th century, in 1906 the first experimental system of this education with students of the Faculty of Engineering began, that others later accepted it. Then Germany tried it. Germany is out there in the 1970s, and a significant increase in students who want to be educated this way is happening from 2006 to 2011, where an increase of about 50% occurs. Then, in the middle education system of the country that precedes the dual education system, Austria, Germany, Switzerland are. It's mostly countries with capital headquarters. We're not like that. We have one problem where for many years there is no planical, or human planning. Perhaps the model of education that we could accept, and besides, it's two countries in the world where maybe education is the most developed and best at the moment, it's Finland that, in one period, was economically at the beginning and I think it's one of your associates, who's usually completed dual education training on the cost of the government of the Swiss state, I don't dispute that anything, it seems to me that she was visiting at one point in South Korea and she knows well what happened there when a few hours or even, I'm not sure now, one hour shorter in schools, that they were willing to strike. We have one problem – we don't have a culture of education, we don't have a culture of passing exams. That now I don't name some people who in no way should have, that someone was chasing them to give them a degree, that they took it because they set up a pattern of behavior as modern as it is now to say it, and they didn't suffer any sanctions. Unfortunately, today we have in Serbia's education system people who should in no way be there. We have wonderful teachers, teachers, teachers in both high schools and universities, but there are also those who don't deserve to be there. You probably do it through the school administration, by means of educational inspectors, you come into such a situation. Investing in education, dealing with education is not a job from today for tomorrow. Your mistakes are visible today. When I say yours, I mean whoever's in the Ministry of Education and those who educate our generations, but especially will be noticeable and special price, but expensive, we'll pay maybe two decades later. We need to resolve it, then see how we can access this education system. You said in 2017 we introduced dual education in secondary schools, so you said there were 400 candidates, and in 2018 four and a half thousand. Now we have seven thousand. They're numbers, if they're the only ones we're dealing with and who's rooting for absolute numbers, they could tap and say bravo. We don't know what the real consequences are. We won't even suspect it. Believe that our intention, the MP of the SRS, is not to trip you up, but to point out those problems that you can't look at alone or maybe get to you individually, so you don't think it's important to solve, to point out to you, and sometimes to say that you're doing well what you are. It seems to me that through this manual about forming a department and funding, it's primarily thought of elementary schools, that you have one tolerance in relation to what's really prescribed. There you said there were 30 students, but in these district schools you allow a smaller number and it should be continued. It may be the most expensive education in Serbia, but it should be borne in mind that the survival or staying there of teachers and some families who have children for education at that age still lives, maintains some areas in Serbia. We have a lot of mountain-mounted areas in Serbia where if those who live here leave, who are emotionally related to these areas, there is no more industrialisation, there is no more scientific and technological revolution that can help and bring someone back to those areas. This is the only way we can do it. He may be more expensive, but he's the only one at this point possible. Keep taking care of it. First of all, I mean the border areas where it has to be. This parliament passed the Law on dual education in secondary schools two years ago and since then we have run in such a way of education in higher education institutions. I'm sorry, but this looks a little bit like former high-skilled workers to me, so there was one competition between the sixth and fifth stages of professional training, but you'll have a colleague here, a few doctors, that maybe those who don't deserve that education system that's today, 450 hours at the employer, 450 hours at the higher school facility, that they'll be completely equal to those who study on a regular basis and have fantastic results. Now, is this exactly what you're talking about, you said yourself earlier that there was someone who offered you 20 scholarships at the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade. That was before the introduction of dual education. Here when you mentioned the colleges and institutes that helped you to draft this bill, they were scientific institutions for every commendation. Our students of electrical engineering, engineering and other universities expect and follow them, and Professor Jokic once said that they are students of a university or later graduates of goods, that there are so-called bounty hunters who follow them best and take them away. Now, answer me, Minister, one question – are our students who continue, or are they students who opt to study abroad, study in a dual system, or perhaps regularly in those countries? I'm safe on a regular basis, and almost no one's on the dual system. I have to point out here, I'm not going to say my name, so I don't have a problem, now it seems to me, the manager at one of the regulatory institutions, the one who was a professor at the time, and he first dared reform in a certain way, in a narrow segment, our higher education. When he noticed that the student was responding and that it was not ignorance, but perhaps the biorhythm of that day, indisposedness or something like that, he said - colleagues, open the book, open the eyes, say – tell me about it. This was for me the introduction of a reform in higher education. He wanted a student with understanding to learn. This wasn't about buying grades, it wasn't about anything, and we think that competition between state colleges and privates is unfair, it is right very often and we and many others say – private college, so it's about avoiding. It doesn't have to be like that, it's not always like that. You make sure that's settled in a better way. Just a little bit more. It is not true that small businesses will benefit most from this system, provided it is fantastic. Most of them will have the big ones who have the money, who can take it, and it's not good that, it's good when the number of unemployed is reduced. It would be best if they were gone, but in the case of Serbia, the reduction in the number of unemployment has largely resulted in the departure of our citizens at all, without saying high-level personnel abroad, and therefore leaving vacant places on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60236	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60237	I agree with you that we need to preserve all the resources of the state, whether it's mountainous or any other area, borderline, as they say, or enclaves, but we need to have good models for it. We're not just guarding them, so they're sitting there, they're quiet, they don't. Everything kids in town have to have, everyone, everything. And, if you noticed, it was public, it starts this year, it started on September 1st – pilot program 304 schools are in single-minded work. We have just included all school models and large urban and suburban and mountainous, rural and so on, and there we are enabling them to have conditions from internet to kitchen, to sport, to everything else and that is something that we will do intensively in the next period. It takes a lot of money, and state, to create, first of all, technical conditions, and that's what it's all about. I, of all people from the European Commission who had previously given money solely for some training, insisted on concrete money. If it's help, I need it for the buildings, I need it for internal space refurbishing, but also for equipment. Because if we're talking about no planning personnel, you're right, but socialism has been doing it for five years for those five years. And the network of schools we have today is from that period. Belgrade had 229 thousand machine workers, a dragon, an IMT, an IMR, so we didn't sell them. Belarus didn't sell "Belorus", or "Glassy", anything, does everything to them, and we sold it and destroyed it, and we were with industrial tradition. At that time, all the schools that existed in that sense were 11 of them, so they had no purpose in schooling the cabinet sitting on the desk. So that's another story. We're just editing the system, because you've taken an example of good countries. I recently visited the invitation of Minister Estonia, who was the first in Pisa's test, to learn from Finland and to overcome the teacher. And if you take that as different models, you can't count students or education models on the same level, because our old strategy that I say, here, since 2020 ends, has predicted 40% of the general education students through high school, and I've found 22%, not to move. We managed only through these information routes and other models to raise to 28%, but we are in the process of reforming the high school where election programs are given. I've studied somewhere so far, since it's my private job, about 45 different models of education systems around the world, where I've been, and in South Korea and all of these countries, I know most of it, and to tell you something, so here, if I said there was a technical high school, we'd all make fun of us. Finland has a veterinary school. They call most schools high school. According to their models, it's 70 percent high school, which doesn't suit our culture or tradition. We will not lift up doubles into the heavens. It's part of the medium professional, to the extent that it's more necessary, to tie it to the economy and to practical knowledge, according to the new one, and since we don't have the planning of the economy, but the market does, the flexibility of the one who edits it and co-operation with other factors is very important. Then you can get that story done right, and then it's basically some planning. I propose, and it will be next year, and the chamber has also accepted many other participants and other ministries, and businesses and work, not to be planned for one town, one municipality. It is small, generally, across Serbia, except for large cities, so it must go to the region. If you have, for example, a Agricultural School in Smederev, it became at a time of socialism, while it was "Godomin", this year it entered in two directions of five students and six students. And you have a Fireman, who everyone knows, you can go on a bike in 20 minutes, fireman-Smederevo, who has a serious Agricultural School and students' home, so I guess it's more logical that those 11 students go to Pogorjevac and join that part, and Smederev's is making an industrial zone next to the Danube, where people don't really care what comes there. And then they educate children for hospitality and tourism. These children have practice in Croatia, and that's what I discovered, there they work for allowance, probably and then they'll stay there. I say, how many hotels do you have to train these staff? And no one's ever asked them that before. I'm just talking about setting up a system for the welfare of the state and those children and youth, to be educated for what is necessary. And listen to the kids. You see how students for the last two years mostly choose those colleges where they get a good job and where they get a good salary. The important thing is that they do it here. In the new education strategy by 2030, we have to set a different formula, so what kind of high school we want, whether the economic school should remain as it was formed, whether it has elements of the dual where it's crafted, where it's running business books, or if you have to go to all of that to study economic colleges and international economic relations, and a series of such issues. So, we're going to be dealing with middle school education this year and sorting out a story about what it really is to a duel and what it isn't a dual. So, some things have to be put into the desired frames in order for the story to go that way. I think we, looking at the experiences of all these countries that we're working with, where we have bilateral contracts, so we get certain kinds and ideas and help, but all day we've been talking here, we can't just implement them because we've seen them somewhere. We must stick to our cultures and traditions and our habits, and take only those experiences that do us good. So, really, believe this to be considered six times, and these patterns you mentioned are also examples for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60238	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60239	Mr. Minister, if someone's guarding tradition, loves their country, there's no reserve, no dilemma, it's the SRS and its members. Of course, we don't argue with others either. I guess this is our only country. I don't know if we understood each other when I said it, but we're also about to introduce some kind of modernisation where it's possible and where we expect results not at the expense of what we were just talking about. I don't know if we understood each other when I was saying that you were supposed to meet and that you're doing it to the extent that it might be financially possible. First of all, I meant basic education. And we fully agree that when it comes to middle-level education, there's some rationalization to be done. Mr. Minister, we have one problem that we have about 20,000 or more specifically 19,700 students in 2019 enrolled in the first grade less than in 2000. It's about 700 wards on those normal averages that should exist. When you mentioned the system, we were fighting to revive the system, and you mentioned Professor Radenovic well. Well, we're on the Shanghai List for 100 seats, so at least we talked, so experts said we fell because of Professor Radenovic and another who no longer sign works for Serbia. Congratulations to Professor Radenovic, I could also congratulate Stojmirovic, but not to have an individual there, that we have a system that leads us where we want to go. Now, that's what the SRS stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60241	Without the intention of replicating, I was thinking the same thing when I was talking about basic education, that first part of the network and what we talked about, and then the discussion went to high school, I didn't make a distinction in the conversation. When we talk about the very contribution and Professor Radenovic, Haderburg, they are theoretical mathematicians and their formula in the 120 places to be seen. But she's not the only one. One reason you have to understand, there are three reasons, they're a third reason. One reason is to measure and socially humanistic sciences that were not previously treated according to that methodology and that University of Shanghai Giao Tong. So, we brought here, personally, Jiao Tong in February, in Belgrade, who signed a co-operation agreement with both New Zealand and Belgrade universities. The third reason is the expansion of Chinese universities. So they invest a lot of money in "Silas" and outrun not only Serbia, but many in front of them. So the question is, and where is our real position, but what we can do is the system, and I talked about it through the Science Fund, through the salaries of researchers, through these calls, through the diaspora, and the calls by New Year's you'll see for artificial intelligence and diaspora and because of the problem that existed. In 2016, there was an argument in the scientific community because the project cycle was to be restored. The last minister tried to do it and they shot him down in the Constitutional Court, there was no law, they dealt with regulations. You have a science at the university and science at the institutes and science at home, but if it's more comfortable at university, does it get a pay for teaching and for part of doing science, and at the institutes people didn't have salaries, but through direct material costs they got part of the fee, then the whole system was standing on glass feet, and these are the antiques that have contributed to their honorable work so far. So with these changes, I think we're going to raise, fix, and thanks to that same event, we agreed, the president approved, and we're going to have a new budget line, we've already established one three years ago, and that's to improve the quality of teaching at universities. This has been done for three years and we will see what the first effects of such work are, and there is also a new budget line that will make a contribution to each individual in the field of science, published by "Rad", quoted on the SCI list, which will be signed with one of our universities, and man will have a fee for it. It's just that we have to do what the world does. Let me tell you something, since it's a newspaper now that some colleges are individualized, this is a summary grade, many of our colleges have remained in the shadow of this one of our own, conditionally said, currently poor results, and it's only stimulated by a long-term bad policy, but if we say that Kragujevac, medicine, went to 268, it's commendable. If we say it's food technology, it's too bad it's not Professor. Ševarlic here, constantly between 37th, 38th and 50th place, Serbian geology in 100th place, traffic, many technical sciences 118th, 120th. So I'm saying again, so we're going to encourage a lot, to invest in social science. Not to quote now how many poor works there are in which major colleges of social sciences. So these are objective reasons, not just these two individuals, he's in a third, a third, a third, I say, social science that's being measured now, and it hasn't been measured before, and, of course, the strength of Asian, especially Chinese, which are really in expansion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60242	The word has the People's MP Sreto Peric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60243	This, Mr. Minister, is the shortest. You said a financial line was approved, you said the president approved, but we're interested in which president.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60245	I think there is one single elected president of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60246	Comrade Peric, you have no right to a replica. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60247	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, it's very nice to hear all the newspapers are expecting in the future for you and your ministry, indeed, all the congratulations on serious work and effort. As for the introduction of a dual model, the introduction of this model study is certainly a big step for higher education and I am sure of one thing, which is that the realization of teaching through practical training and work with the employer will bring benefits to our students only. I wish one such model existed at a time when my colleagues and I were studying. Professional training and skills and competences, learning through mentor-controlled work, introduces students into a real working environment, which means that when they are hired, at the end of the study, they skip that period of adaptation when students do not know what hit them. The second, perhaps the most important benefit for students is a direct exit to the labour market. So the acquisition of some acquaintances with employers and direct exit to the labour market can only bring them great benefits in finding jobs. A great advantage and a chance to start their career as long as the studies last and show their abilities in that first phase of entry into the work environment. What should be pointed out is that the dual model of studies is not mandatory, but represents an opportunity that will be provided by high school institutions. Also, employers will participate in the realization of this model only if they have their own interest, so that there are no burdensome costs for their business, but those employers who decide to participate in the implementation of this programme will have the opportunity to participate in the education of their potential staff and thus to practically carry out the selection and best staff in their companies. Practice from other countries that have developed a dual model of studies has shown that there is a significant interest in this model by the economy, and also by students who start their careers at an early stage, who want to highlight themselves in their future profession. The aim of each society is to educate a man who is a professional, who will apply his acquired knowledge in practice with as much performance as possible, so this model is an opportunity for employers to take part in the formation of competences they need when selecting their employees. I wish you successful implementation and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60248	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, education is a discipline that can be freely said to be as old as the human race. Everything man has created in his history has improved and perfected can be thanked for his education. For this reason, it is no wonder that all the most developed, the largest and strongest countries in the world have become this because they invest and continue to invest in their education. As for Serbia, we unfortunately have a different situation. We continue to see education as a particular necessity, without some particular obligation to achieve the declared objectives required by this education. Of course, I don't want to blame you here, Mr. Minister. Compared to some of the predecessors, you're, I must say, a few classes above, but that doesn't mean that this law we're discussing today is good. Rather than sharing true knowledge with our young ones, sharing moral and other values with them, education unfortunately began to serve, above all, indoctrination and in some cases even to dulling young people. Today's education aims to form a common consumer. As a longtime educational worker, I'll give you a few examples. What's being taught at school today? It learns, say, how to do a video presentation, how to write a CV, it learns that sex is no longer a physiological but psychological category and other things, but that's why some fundamental sciences, such as physics, chemistry, are outdated for today's education, there's no such thing, although today's most advanced world technology rests on these sciences. Today, children and students learn that nothing needs to be known, nothing in terms of being kept in their heads, anything can be found on Google, but a man who knows nothing is subject to any kind of manipulation and can be forced into anything, because an empty head is suitable to put anything in it. The state has to turn its strategy around a little bit and these things, so it's not just about professional education, it's about taking care of some other things and other categories. Unfortunately, the capital has moved today and into this area. The main resource of liberal capitalism today has become illiterate and should therefore be given as little real and true education as possible. This is also visible at the diameter of the dual education that we are considering here today. Businessmen in this area, as a rule, have no idea what real education is. They believe that education only gives man professional titles, but in reality such knowledge does not create man, but creates biosharves for economic machinery. An educated man is the man, the person who knows the answers to the most important questions. Today, today’s consumer society does not need an educated man but needs a consumer who is always ready to spend. Spend what? That he spends everything he's told. Today's man needs iPhone 10, although he has not mastered the functions of iPhone 5, but it is important to suggest that he should spend, and some moral and other values do not matter for today's society. The students and students are not given a valuable scale today that shows all the beauty of the exalted and all the abominations of the unworthy are not in any programme, and such a strategy deliberately negates the integral knowledge of our young population. The difference between an educated man and a man described is that an educated man has full knowledge of the world that surrounds him. As far as the above is concerned, the man described today is intended only on the labour market and this Dual Education Act is now associated and referred to. These two things can be viewed separately, but they have, of course, touch points and it's called so-called. system two corridors. There is no school in Serbia today whose goal is to educate a man, but in the true sense of the word. The ongoing reforms of our education, our education system, have filled our society with a semi-editious element that represents the ideal material for all kinds of manipulation. Such a system may also be acceptable on a lower, possibly medium level, but at a higher level, such a system necessarily slips and creates problems. We don't need unspeakable intellectuals, supporters of this or that, we have too many. We need people who have a problem, and education is really a fundamental problem, the essential thing, that the problem is designed on a higher level, at a really, really high level. Let's not fool ourselves with this law. You can't make a law that will cover all the nuances of reality. There is not one such law, and of course it does not want this Dual Education Act. Spiritual criteria are not as clear as mathematically and it must be understood and therefore exist and problems arise. Even when some time the most sincere strives for the best comes to a completely reverse result and I believe that you didn't have a bad intention when you proposed this Dual Education Act, first in high school and now in high education, but practice is already beginning, and I believe that it will also deny you that it is. Usually delusion, deception is not seen at the end, but at the beginning of the journey. Mr. Minister, as the most direct man in the work that I do, I have been involved in dual education in high school, I have seen all the shortcomings of this and believe that all schools, especially since this is now the second year of applying this education, or third year, that all schools continue to face serious problems. I, for example, went all last week from, let's say, places where kids are supposed to teach practical classes and again, even though we had it last year, again those privates, those entities who are supposed to accept such students, still resent those famous contracts that we have to sign, so whether they'll be able to meet that. Otherwise, realistically, they have a need for staff, for students and all these other things. No matter how many of my colleagues today in this room have heard that this is something good, maybe it's well imagined, but believe me, this system of education doesn't believe that it's yielding some results in some developed countries, and I don't think even in another Switzerland it's been best shown, because there's a lot of inter-conditional stuff, and when there's a lot of subjects, then there's always harder to come up with results. So, I don't think this law, we in the SRS, are going to support this law, because it just didn't show up at high school level as adequate, and at the level of higher education, it's going to be even harder to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60250	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60251	Since it's a young model that's just been introduced into the country and even in the first year, it wasn't even a law that was activated, it was a delayed fact for secondary education, it's definitely going to have to go down somewhere and see if it's quite right. We even asked to be checked by both employers and by the Institute to improve education education, whether every profile well-tended the relationship of generalised and professional subjects. It's done all the time. When it comes to a bad employer, a businessman. Let's ask any construction contractor, how much is he willing to pay for now the builder, the carpenter, the ceramic who has started the facility and can't finish it? You see, circumstances change things like that. We will surely go to the fact that the existence of even a good workforce is now imperative that you do business. It's something that's certainly going to make everyone smart, because we have small and medium-sized enterprises expecting to get more subsidies for that. I think they'll be very happy to provide themselves with the ability to do what they do. So that transition factor with the better, the big employers doesn't have it, it's arranged, I, thank God, have visited a lot, but I'm going to go around these less soon when time allows. What I certainly can't take for granted as a liability is that, so I can't say how much, but at least a few decades has put out quality education. If you could vote for success at the teacher's council session, that in a three-hour period, you could turn it into fives, and you don't have enough, you almost don't have any good, everyone's great and very good. I don't support it at first, and I think it's a nakarad model. Everyone, of the parents involved, is responsible from the principals of the school who manage such teaching councils and professional bodies of the institutions. And it goes to the 21st state prom, so it's not a warning, it's an obligation to be polite, because everyone will see what they've done. The reform of education requires and training of people, directors, and the right to tell you, the reform of the gymnasium has so far led to three experimental high school courses, "The Fifth High School" in Belgrade, "Draj Jovina" in Novi Sad and "Svetozar Marković" in Nis, gifted in chemistry and physics. Where the class fund will be, in these classes, those schools as never anywhere in Serbia, mean four or five a week, where they prepare for serious colleges that seek these professions. Do you think he'll be able to be a high-quality engineer, like the Tech-chemical Faculty, if he doesn't know physics and mathematics? What's a thousand new students in the IT system if they're not a good mathematician, an example works in mathematics? So, the power of fundamental sciences must not be underestimated, and we cannot force them all at once – you must do so. They're not used to it, but it changes from day to day. If we have managed to place ourselves with a teacher level, from the first to the fourth, in the 27th place by the international way of estimating knowledge and checking, and this is the TIMS testing where the whole world participates, I think Serbia will already be very high in the PISA test in 2024. But we don't have that culture, what you say, we lost it, we had it once. In the countries of Finland, Estonia, those who do so, they have a national good education. When it is in Serbia, it will certainly be faster and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60252	Right on line, MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60253	Mr. Minister, this isn't about a bad and good employer. The problem is that the real employers are literally gone. Why isn't he here? Because the administration, the accompanying administration of all of this, is such that few of those employers who are generally good and who need the products of this dual education, do not dare go into something like this because of this administration. Simply, who can single out money to pay a student, now a student, probably more? I'm saying, I work in high school traffic, and I know, I've been going through all the technical checks, the technical services in Nis we know, we've been working with them for a long time, they need our students, but I just can't answer all those demands required by this law. This is where you mentioned Finland. I agree with you that the education model in Finland is like that, but you know why? Finland inherited the largest model of education from the former Soviet Union. That's why she's good at her modeling. We had something similar in the former Yugoslavia, later in Serbia and the SRJ, but now it's a different story.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60254	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60255	I don't think it's a replica. It's a collegiate conversation. I don't blame the employers, the ones who figured this out, but you have a whole series of employers looking for subsidies, and on the other hand they're not aware they don't have the workforce. But we're not saying that all of a sudden, it's going to replace what used to be, the planned economy, the state, it's known everything, and that's how it was educated. It needs to be restored slowly. If you have someone who has a company where they need electric engineers working on software production, they need to be aware that this engineer knows what salary he's working for. They'll go to the world for sure. There'll be a debate tomorrow about what copyrights are. As an employer, if he takes out a software engineer, then even that software engineer can't think that now his program that he's made is now still his copyright, because that employer bought it up in some way, paying it very expensive and high. So I'm saying, these models will start where they're mature, and as the economy develops, so will this in high school. So it was a little bit, a little bit more and more and it dosed. Where it's ready, that's where it's going. You can't force it, you know. I'd like to say -- here's the formula, and we're going to have 30%, because that's how we plotted it. What does it matter that you know? When someone criticises a dual model in secondary education and says – exploiting children, and just because of this fine foundation you can't go anywhere to say – it's so imposed. That's why there's a flexible model, and our model is our model, Serbian, different from German. There's a hard model. Here you have that scholarship is also considered a warm meal. We, for example, are in negotiations with a Chinese company that bought "Smederevo". They need a dual, and imagine someone who saved the city, 5,200 workers, I don't know twice as many cooperatives, how many families, and they've been negotiating with us. And until they got on their feet, paid off their debts, started making profits, and now they're being negotiated and negotiated in a better way by the children in Smederev. So I'm saying, our model is flexible and requires that a solution be found in every situation, region and opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60256	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60257	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, very often, as one of our colleagues said, we see you here in the National Assembly. As you know, I often like to talk about when your laws are on the agenda, first of all, which is why I think that when you started doing education in Serbia, you took over a big and huge cookie that has a lot of problems, which has had a lot of problems in its composition, and all of these laws that we are making and that we are going to bring to some future are your courage, and your associates, of course, to enter into a major reform of the education system. Today, we are on the agenda of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. One, in my opinion, of the two laws on the agenda which is less important than the one that follows, is a law which we have in some way taken the obligation to adopt for the sake of EU accession and is a law that will apply the day we join the EU. In any case, it is important to bring it in time, first of all because of the obligations we have made, and also because of the time to regulate the freedom of movement of labour and the freedom to provide services, and some provisions of that law will start earlier to apply, in order to create conditions for the application of all other provisions later. The law that was announced earlier, which I am very happy to see today in front of us in the National Assembly, is the Law on the dual model of higher education studies. I think this dual model of higher education studies takes a lot, a lot to talk about in our society. In 2017, we passed the Dual Education Act relating to secondary schools, in 2017 400 students were in this programme, in 2018 as many as 11 times higher, or 4,500 students, and this year, 7400 students are in this pilot project of dual education in high school. Although we have in some way taken over a number of legal provisions from EU countries, we can say that this model of dual education being conducted in secondary schools in its practice has acquired a number of specificities that are characteristic of our country, for our system that we have so far, some tradition that exists with us. Eminent experts participated in the draft of this law, the teachers of all the most important and most renting universities in Serbia participated. The dual education model at higher education institutions is being applied in many EU countries, and I believe it will be excellent in the Republic of Serbia as well. When we adopt, and I hope that we will soon adopt this law, it will be very important for higher education institutions, so it will be important for employers, especially those companies that have a developmental research character, but what I think is significant will be very important for each individual who is studying in Serbia and who finishes university in Serbia because the company that is engaged in research and development will pay attention to the student from the very beginning of his studies, will follow him through his studies and when he graduates from college will watch him hire him in the shortest time, with favourable labour contracts, so that as many young people remain in Serbia. As one famous author said a long time ago, there's only one thing worse than teaching people to get them out of your country, and that's that you don't train them to stay in your country. I think this law on dual higher education will contribute to the fact that as many young people as possible remain in Serbia and get the most quality education here. Not taking into account whether the importance of these laws on the agenda today is greater than the Law on Education that we have adopted or than those that will be on the agenda tomorrow, without assessing how much any of these laws will contribute to the development of education, education, education, science at all in the future in Serbia, I think each of them is very important, one cube in a puzzle that contributes to a comprehensive reform of education in Serbia. First of all, this comprehensive reform should go to meet the needs of the labour market, because we were in a position to see what it looked like when we had a lot of trained staff who didn't have a place to work. One such example was a higher education school in Kikinda, where we in Kikinda have so many educators that we can't hire them in the next 50 years, those who have completed that Higher Pedagogue School. There is now a third and fourth degree, so, for the next 50 years, Kickinda with the environment has no need for so many educators, and not only this error will be corrected, but also a mistake throughout Serbia. We have praised a lot of your laws that were in front of the National Assembly, and I think those who are on the agenda today are also commendable, but I look forward to the announcements that I am mostly reading, your announcements in the reform of education that I read mostly in the media, and that is, above all, one textbook for one subject, where you will determine which is the basic regular textbook, when the other textbooks will be in digital form. I am also very pleased that you announced that every following year there will be 10,000 new digital classrooms to go in the direction of digitalising education, but also in general to meet one of the basic principles that the government has set before it, which is the digitisation of the entire public administration. No one in Serbia can say that they are not looking forward to increasing the salaries of educational staff, which is constant and re-announced. What is very interesting to me, what I first heard in the media the other day, is the announcement of your project – study in Serbia where it is announced that in the next three years 30,000, that is an estimate, that 30,000 foreign students will study in Serbia. We have about 1,500 so far, if I have received good information, and these are mostly students from Greece, Russia, former Soviets, Turkey, Iraq and certain African countries, China, the United Arab Emirates. If we meet that, it would be great for the state of Serbia, and as far as I hear it is in 68 different countries of the world, through our consulates and embassies, material that will promote our universities, and also some of the following steps that will promote it. What is also significant is the introduction of a specific budget line to strengthen the Shanghai List and a series of newspapers that we will soon have ahead of us and that we will be able to support. So far, we have passed the Fund and Science Act and the Law on Science and Research where 1,100 young researchers for the next five years have safe receipts. Whether we invest in education or invest in science, they certainly match each other, areas that each other eats and I very much rejoices about because finally after that booklet that we inherited from a previous period and which in our society has been held back from some previous periods when it was mainly about those individuals who were bad and who helped, we now finally have to worry about the best ones. And who's the best? They're the best ones who do research, science and students in our country. It is very nice for Serbia to be represented by young athletes such as volleyball, basketball players, tennis players. That's great and we're very proud of them, but we think that Serbia has enough young, educated people to represent us both in mathematics, robotics, physics, research, and art. No matter how much money we invest in education and science, I don't think it'll ever be enough for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60258	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60259	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished members of the ministry today and in the next few days, we are discussing a set of very related but important laws for the citizens of Serbia and what is very important for me to point out are two things. At the beginning of the prime minister's term of office, Serbia's prime minister stressed in his exposé that two main priorities in the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia are digitisation and change in education. These two goals are more than obvious, and I am very happy about that. When we passed the Dual Education Act two years ago, there were many critics whose biggest objections were to produce cheap labour. Today, these critics in this hall are unfortunately missing, and the basic results of dual education in these two years are that more and more young people are enrolling secondary schools with dual education, that they are increasingly hiring after completing their secondary vocational schools, and more and more companies are initiating that dual education is in Serbia as a model because it is necessary for professionals to hire in their companies. What is also very important to me and negatively, which is a part of the opposition avoiding debate in parliament, I think the answer is very clear, that they do not have a clear programme, that the protests are falling, that they simply want power without a choice and that their political opponents do not call their assets the most ugly names. What I also find important to point out because Serbian citizens do not have the opposition's actions because they do not have the answer to the fact that the four companies of Dragan Gilas while he was a state official made a net profit of 619m euros, that his personal property is 25m euros. I must point out that I pointed out this problem ten years ago, in 2009, but that the then investigative authorities did not have the strength to deal with this issue of elections, and that just the work of the police and the judiciary is talking about the capacity of these ministries and the continuation of the reform course, and the fact that people have been arrested from these four companies is obvious evidence. However, I want to point out another very important thing, yesterday's elections in Medvedja show in the best way that the people are boycotting the boycott, and that the next elections in KIM will show the turnout of Serbian citizens that the boycott announced by part of the opposition in Serbia will not succeed. However, I want to go back to the Duo Education Act which is on the agenda and say that the same thing in the middle dual education model in higher education institutions will allow our academic citizens to become employed as soon as possible in companies. This in some ways shows the continuation of the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia in this way, we show that we want to keep young people in Serbia and send an important signal to companies that have a development component. At the end of my presentation, I would like to ask you a few questions, and as well as my esteemed colleague Professor Atlagic and I as a educator, I must appeal to you that, in parallel with these changes and reforms that you are conducting as a ministry in the field of education, it is very important that we pay attention to the educational role of the school, for us educators, it is considered that there is an educational and educational role of the school. And why does it matter? It's important because of prevention, it's important to prevent peer violence, it's important that when a family schedules the school just replaces that moment in the way it's stronger. I am pleased that you, in your recent statements, have announced that as a ministry, you support the return of educators to school, of course also psychologists, but since I am a educator, it is particularly important for me to work as a educator. My colleague Alexandra asked a very important question, and every year some new textbooks are being bought, even though we have the Bookbooks Act, we have a constant problem with that. You announced that digitizing the textbook would solve this problem. It's also very important. I wonder how you started and did you even start licensing directors by the schools you announced? How's the state graduation prep going? You also announced the renovation of equipment in schools. It's very important, and it's very important that information was introduced a few years ago and that you didn't wait for all the computers, the necessary tools, to be installed in schools, because it practically has to go from one important problem to another. Dual education in my opinion is becoming a serious driver and momentum of the economy. What is very important, in my opinion, is that other countries' experiences have been accepted but that they are still arranged according to the model in Serbia and that is why we, the SNS MPs in the voting day, will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60260	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60261	I'm going to try to answer that tax, because there's a lot of it, so the school's equipment is urgent. Indeed someone here said today, our schools are still from SFRY, and when it comes to information equipment from the current 10,000 digital classrooms next year, we have already put in the budget a projection of the new budget another 10,000 with all these IT-related jobs still in place. In developed countries, a unique foundation is being formed that collects all of this, and cannot be with me in the ministry, in telecommunications, in the IT sector, in a hundred places, it simply works less. So I'm going to suggest it to the prime minister that we soon unite. For the third year, we will have 30,000 digital classrooms, or in the next two we have completely all digitalized. The cabinets are a special story and we've got a breach of the limit, not only on the basis of these projects related to schools, but also on the basis of information equipment. So we're going to have almost 900 million dinars out of bounds, that's exactly an increase in the resources of the ministry itself, to buy new computers, which is going to say where the obsolescences are changing, and where they're missing new ones are being bought. Where big schools are, and also because of the introduction of information from next year, it means next school year, there must be at least two cabinets. So we're going to have a permanent line, it's not a one-time help. At present, we have re-balanced the budget, somewhere along with Prime Minister Brnabic's cabinet, singled out about 30 secondary schools to buy equipment relating to the cabinets of chemistry, physics, biology, means that we have good microscopes, that we have good conditions for chemical laboratories, also for physics, but also schools that really have to be supplied with other types of equipment. It's 3D printers and a lot of other things. The IPA funds I focused exclusively on equipment and managed to convince the European Commission that it was important for us. Since we have the Qualifications Act and the Agency that deals with it, so there's now a bunch of education organizers who can show up, but the biggest resource has our education and our people and we think it's a personal place to give this equipment a chance that all these kinds of requalifications and other events are happening there. We have to do a lot of adult education lately. It's going to be one big agenda, and graduation's going well. Tomorrow morning is a meeting, I'm using this morning time before parliament, we've got some IPE funds here and I'll tell you right away -- whenever an IPA or anything has been designed before, most people have been pushing money into some kind of training. I'm looking to balance it out, make it both equipment and training. So, out of that four million, there's no software planned. We'll see that from some other lines, untapped funds within the IPA projects of other ministries, we'll use it to get software that would work for our colleges. Now they're capable of both FON and ETF and others and that's a really great story. When we settle that, we solve other questions. I'm giving you a pace, because before that commission took place that company's job through these European funds, we made a home team that's from high and high and parallel to them doing business. So my cabinet dictates the pace and what it will look like. Because we, in the State Prom, classify both small and large and design the Institute for Quality of Education by forming not only the units that we have in the past law on changes and additions to monitoring digital competences and achieving teacher standards in this sphere, but also will have test centres. So I need a lot of time to explain the whole structure and function where that story goes, but absolutely leads to quality. In 2021, we're doing a big graduation, doing a little rehearsal, and next year we're doing a couple of state major graduation trials, where part of it's going to be digitalized. It's only when we have enough of what we say, about 65,000 computers, always ready and able, in the system, that in 2021 we'll be working fully digitally. The problem of someone making obstructions, as often happens, I hope we get past the Coin of Money or some serious story. But what's very important is that one time I'm going to go somewhere and announce what the graduation process is. It's a big project. In the end, it hasn't worked for years and it's been 10 years late, because, in fact, it's not what he wants. That's not true. Highly sets tasks, weights, reviews, determines the levels they need and by introducing electoral programs to high school and everything we've done through digitization we've broken all those names why it has to be better than it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60262	Thank you. The word is a colleague of Ana Čaapić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60263	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two very important and important draft laws concerning education, which contribute to the economic development of our country. Given that the highly qualified workforce is a driver of economic development, the aim of the government of Serbia is to bring the system of secondary and higher education into line with the needs of the labour market. In the previous period, a lot has been done in terms of education reform. By introducing a dual model of higher education studies, students are given the opportunity to learn in addition to learning theoretical knowledge, which is good, for the reason that after completed studies future graduates will be much easier to get to the desired job. It is important that future students, if they opt for a dual model of study, or for learning through work, will have the right to material and financial security by the employer. What is the advantage of providing students with opportunities for the dual model of study is seen in the fact that many European countries cite dual education as a comparative advantage to foreign investors. Thus, according to the law itself, the system of dual education provided us with 15 billion euros of foreign investment to neighbouring Hungary in 2013. Also, thanks to the precisely dual education model, our country managed to attract a record number of foreign investments in 2019 and in the first half of 2019 we have an inflow of as much as 30% compared to the same period of the previous year. So, our government all it does is model the best examples and best practice of the countries in the environment, and all in order for the citizens of Serbia to live better. The biggest problem in our country is neither the dual education system nor the reform system, the biggest problem in our country is the current violence and hate speech by those who have led Serbia to bankruptcy, and who do not choose either way or resources, to attack anyone who thinks differently from them. We remember only until a month and a half ago, in the most brutal way the children of President Vukic were attacked, each day the most brutally attacked members of our president's family, our president, and only because there is no day for President Vukic not to do anything good for the citizens and for Serbia. Unfortunately, the attacks do not bypass either the Prime Minister, they do not bypass the President of Parliament, or the Minister of Resorship, or all of us who are trying to do something for the state and for the citizens. The violence, unfortunately, did not bypass the chairman of the SNS Municipal Committee in Kursumlia, who is also the CEO of AD “Planinka”, which was beaten in the family house in Kursumlia on Saturday night, in the eyes of children and grandchildren, by citizens only because he is unhappy with his material situation. It's really embarrassing and it really goes beyond all the limits of normal civil behavior. Mr. Raicevic was beaten right after buying the Zubor Hotel in Kursumlijska Banja. It is about a spa that worked best by 2006, a spa that was visited annually by over 10,000 tourists, a spa where over 130 workers worked. A man who hired over 50 workers last week was beaten and only because he was president of the SNS Municipal Committee in Kursumlia. So, these streets of the Alliance for Serbia literally bother everything that is arranged and built in Serbia. The impression is that the biggest problem of our opposition is that in the ranks of SNS, high-quality and educated people, who are fighting for the interests of citizens and who are fighting for Serbia. They can love us or not love us, can beat us or not beat us, I'm sure all of us who belong to the SNS are doing everything we can to make it possible for the citizens of Serbia to live a better life. The SNS parliamentary group will support both these and all other good laws that come to the Assembly for discussion and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60264	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60265	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, respected citizens, respected fellow MPs, today we have before us a draft law regarding the dual model of higher education studies, which is how we manage to provide conditions for easier employment and strengthen the competitiveness of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, promote the creativity and innovation of each individual and by the said law confirm the great responsibility of the employer in society. The draft law on dual education in co-operation with higher education institutions and employers is, above all, learning through work, which is determined by a specific study programme. I, as a mother of a child, absolutely agree that it is a very important practice, or learning theory, but practice is the most important thing. By this law we support the career development of students and together we motivate and empower students and employers. Our education system needs to adapt as much as possible to the needs of the economy as possible, as this brings about a modern change that will affect our young people, because it speeds up preparation and training for easier employment and reduces the period of training for work. Of course, the rights of protection of students prescribed by law are provided, which prohibits all types of discrimination with the employer. This bill makes clear the employer's obligations regarding the realization of learning through work, which is primarily an obligation to manage the best interests of students. The idea to implement the proposal for a law on dual education is in fact a positive example of European countries that greatly apply that model. Significant results were made by the model in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, and its own system developed by countries such as Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. We cannot deny the importance of learning practice. They acquire, perfect, or build knowledge, skills, abilities, and attitudes are actually the goal of dual teaching. The partnership between education and economy, business partnership and our students is the key to the success of the said dual education. Thanks to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Ministry of Education, we have made it possible to co-operate between the education system and future companies, because that model is twice useful for young people who train in time and for companies who are getting new trained strength. I think that through dual education, we all get and we're as rich as we know it. Dear Minister Sarčević, I would also like to commend your work, because we have a large number of schools that have been renovated, the digitisation of tens of thousands of classrooms and the promotion of work in all areas of education, regardless of where they are in the middle, whether they are in mountainous, urban or rural areas. Citizens should know that the state of the Republic of Serbia, led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic, has invested tens of millions of euros from republican and regional funds. The budget for science has been increased, but also for the salaries of researchers. Many have slowed down and said that the state is weak in science and education at all, and by our work we are actually showing everyone that increased investment in all areas of the Republic of Serbia, or government, has money and wisely allocates funds and helps and struggles to make life easier for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We recovered the economy, opened over 250 new factories, brought factories to small and remote places, making it possible for our citizens and for more jobs. The unemployment rate is 10.3% today and we will continue to work on lowering the unemployment level, because our actions speak much more than words, because we are struggling to preserve our brains and to perfect them in the best possible way and facilitate the way to fast employment. Finally, I would remind respected citizens that during the rule of the democratic government, while the ordinary people watched how to make money for bread, Serbia was destroyed more and more, especially through the then Privatisation Agency, to the extent that the unemployment rate in 2011 was 25.5%. In 2011, a 1.1 billion-euro debt was left to the city of Belgrade. The rule of Mr. Gilas, the capital of Serbia, was remembered by numerous affairs, and the largest among them is certainly the unnecessary waste of money on building a bridge on Ada. Of course, Serbia needs as many bridges as possible, but not at 400m euros, as much as Mr Gilas charged, because the same amount of money in the world has been built by far larger and more functional bridges, e.g. The world's highest road bridge in France, which is as long as 2.5km long and cost 400m euros. In the last six years, our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, led by the SNS, has done many good and important things for Serbia and we are particularly proud of economic reforms. We have received the award and best grades from the IMF, the World Bank and credit agencies, because everything we do will remain for us, our people and our children, but not for the cost of 500 million, how much Mr. Gilas's wealth is estimated, but we are only doing with honest work, hard fighting and thanks most to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of course to their support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60266	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60267	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, today we have before us a draft law on a dual model of education in higher education, but before that, I would like to extend my gratitude to a large number of students who have spoken to us, who have been met by the government and extended the deadline for completion of the study. As far as this bill is concerned, I believe that application will bring a number of benefits to students of higher education institutions and employers. On the one hand, students acquire knowledge by working in companies so that the work is valued through scholarships, scholarships or other means. On the other hand, accelerated economic development requires changes in business organisations and adaptation to new market requirements, and knowledge management becomes a primate of competitiveness. Human resources, i.e. their knowledge, create the value and success of business, so they should have competent and valuable personnel. Today, successful companies seek to establish co-operation with universities at all levels so that young people can acquire the necessary knowledge and skills. That is why it is of paramount importance for companies to find partners in the education sector. All of this has helped to enable the organisation of a dual model of studies in the home system of higher education. The fact is that this system works successfully in the countries of Europe, and the most successful models have been developed in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The dual model of study is more demanding and difficult, but more perspective. Students who end up in a dual model, given the significant relevant practical experience, will significantly increase their competitiveness on the labour market, will have a better chance of employment with employers who have done learning through work, but also with other employers from the same work. Of course, this does not reduce the level of knowledge of those who are already studying, but it is essential that the student learns the job, and during the course of learning through the work, employers gain direct insight into the skills of students and participate in the development of their competences. In 2017, Serbia adopted the Dual Education Act, which introduces dual education into the formal system as a model for the realization of teaching in the system of secondary vocational education and education. Projects to introduce and systematically implement a new law in dual education that have been implemented in co-operation with Serbia, Germany and Austria's chambers, as well as the Government of Switzerland, today participates 7,000 students who are educated for 37 educational profiles. In more than 460 companies, there were 80 schools in 52 towns and municipalities of Serbia. The fact is that this is part of a reform of Serbia's education system that will contribute to better and better quality education in which our government and President Aleksandar Vukic made a huge effort. I would remind you that through the project of improving the infrastructure of higher education institutions in Serbia, EU HETIP, with co-operation with the Ministry of Education, the laboratory, research cabinets, teaching and municipal facilities of state schools in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Kralje, Novi Pazar, Bor. Students and professors of 27 universities began using renovated spaces and modern equipment, such as a multimedia classroom of 400 square meters in the Belgrade University recession building and a modern research laboratory at the Faculty of Medicine in Nis. The teaching space of the Novosad Faculty of Natural-Mathematics has been increased by 2,000 square meters. A new building was built on Goč for the Faculty of Forests. The Faculty of Medicine in Nis received a laboratory, and the Faculty of Physics in Belgrade received as many as 10 laboratories. The Botanical Garden has also been reconstructed in Belgrade. Modern, multi-purpose teaching equipment will significantly improve the practical skills and competence of students and will help the ministry improve scientific and technical innovation and research. The ultimate goal is to further develop and connect higher education with the economy, which will make it possible for the whole society to improve, because it is in line with the vision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60268	Thank you. Now the word is Mr. Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, Mr. Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Sarcevic and his associates, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to share information with the citizens of Serbia. Last night, local elections were held in Medvedja, where the list gathered around the SNS won 64.72% of the vote. It was a total of 18 mandates out of 25, and turnout was nearly 68%. I congratulate the citizens of Bear Community on that. The impact of knowledge on the development of society is gaining a new dimension at the end of the 20th and early 21st centuries. In that period, knowledge becomes a resource that has more meaning than natural resources. Today, it is not necessary to explain why the time in which we live is called the age of knowledge. Knowledge is thought to double every five to eight years and only those who can accompany that growth can hope for success. That is why the future of a young man in the 21st century lies in continuous knowledge, learning, which seeks besides the adoption of theoretical knowledge, the acquisition of the necessary skills that will be implemented in practice and that will enable them to overcome the speed of change, the complexity of the environment and the uncertainty of time. In the 21st century, there are no companies that have primitive manufacturing processes. On the contrary, it's just the other way around. Modern technological development lies in companies. Young people, unless they have contact with modern technological development and if they are not active participants, they cannot acquire these skills. In recent years, the town of Leskovac has largely changed the business image of this part of Serbia, by opening production capacities of Falke, Autostop, Jura, Ginsi, Act, as well as dozens of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is clear that the adopted knowledge is only valued if it is practical. That's why we see our role as responsible local self-government as a bond between economy and schools. Of this kind of education benefit has both companies and individuals, but also local self-government. Practice shows that countries in dual education have a youth unemployment rate below 10%. With us, a quarter of those without a job are under 30 years old. In Jablanic County, four schools, three of which are in Leskovic, one in Vlasotinc, implement dual education with 32 companies, including the companies "Falke", "Autostop", "Jinsi", "Strela", "Fungojug", "Z Moravac", "Golden Bor" and "Mita" SZTR". This way companies promote business culture, social responsibilities. Giving young, ambitious students a chance, employers are in a position to identify the candidate profile they need. On the other hand, dual education is shown as an opportunity for students to learn to apply the theoretical skills they acquired during schooling, as well as to gain a working experience that will show them as significant in further work. This will make it easier for prepared students to find jobs and their place in our city's companies and thus stay here and contribute to the even greater prosperity of the town of Leskovec in the future, which is the goal of all of us. Research in the representative model of the European Training Foundation has shown that between 75% and 90% of students found work immediately after six months of schooling, and 90% believe that learning in two places increases the chance of employment. What is important in the Law on the dual model of higher education studies is that it is not about student practice, but about learning through work. The student will work for the employer 450 hours a year, and will receive cash compensation, but since the employer concludes a learning contract through work, he will not have the right to pension and disability insurance. The bottom line is that when academics finish their studies, they are not only theoretically, but also practically qualified for a job that they will do. As long as the student himself makes an effort to meet the expectations of the education company, he will have a better chance of establishing a permanent working relationship. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 30 May 2019, the town of Leskovac is the headquarters of the Academy of Professional Studies of South Serbia, which is: the High Business School of Professional Studies of Leskovac, the High Agricultural Food School of Professional Studies of Prokuplje, the High School of Teachers of the Faculty Studies of Gjilana, with its temporary head office in Bujanovac and the High-Technological Art School of Professional Studies of Leskovac. The work of the School of Higher Education in Leskovec has gained the reputation of modern and highly professional institutions with professional teaching staff and modern educational processes. It is also evidence that the Higher Business Schools of Professional Studies programmes are in line with the Education Development Strategy by 2020, through the implementation of a practical part of education in the country and abroad, and above all in the EU countries, and that many employers offer them the possibility of hiring even during their studies, which is why this school, and now the academy, is attractive to students from the narrow and wider region. As a prerequisite for the implementation of the dual model of studies, the bill prescribes the education of the network of employers with whom the higher education institution is co-operating and who need the staff that the higher education institution educates. The University of Professional Studies in Leskovac was among the first to form the Employers' Council on 27 January 2018, through which employers can influence the type and quality of study programmes. That is why we can rightly expect that good foundations have already been laid for the implementation of this law. Also active is the Commission's work on developing and implementing dual education, established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement and improve dual education and three-year evaluations of the results achieved. Now that it begins with the full application of the Dual Education Act, this commission will play an even more important role, as it brings together representatives of institutions directly involved in the implementation of dual education, as well as those involved in the creation of education policies. The Commission will act in line with the master's plan, which will continuously improve new field data and data resulting from systemic changes. These activities, such as the development of master plan, the development of a framework for the monitoring of the regulation of dual education, support for the work of the Commission for the development and implementation of dual education, support for the Swiss Development and Co-operation Agency under the Joint Projects of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, support for the development and establishment of a national model of dual education. Another important fact in this law is that its implementation does not require the provision of funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the budget of an autonomous province or unit of local self-government. The cost of carrying out the study by dual model is no different from the costs incurred by the higher education institution for the realization of the traditional model, and the employer who participates in the realization of learning through work himself bears his own costs, as well as the costs of material financial security of students. Finally, the costs incurred in the application of this law are fees for the accreditation process, which are otherwise paid to the National Authority for accreditation and quality checks in higher education. And for the process of granting consent for the education of modules under an accredited study programme. These fees are borne by higher education institutions. Employers only participate in the realization of the dual study model if they have their own interest, so they cannot talk about burdening the costs of their business. Gram practice is harder than a ton of theories, and the synergy of these two things brings us a complete educational personality that contributes to itself and the whole community. Minister Sarčević, congratulations to you and your associate, Gabriela Grujic. In voting day, I will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60270	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60271	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with the co-worker this time and respected fellow MPs, we've been discussing this all day and we've had the Committee before and what we've come to some common conclusion, it's that education and education are at the core of society, and from it all begins. Minister Sarcevic, I've pointed out more than once in my speeches, is a team player, which I like very much. There are these people and nothing a man can do alone, it's normal, but he always points out that he's a team player and that they're not all his merits but the whole team of people, which is very nice. He's usually in the Assembly. As far as I think, and I'm not wrong, of all ministers, Minister Sarcevic is here most in the Assembly, because there have been a lot of laws that are under consideration and at the vote, so it can be said that he is also the most valuable. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Here's a colleague, Verica says. These laws increase the educated level of the population, increase the quality of education, then introduce an innovative way of working which is very good, because continuous training with short programs has the ability to study with work. We talked about it all through these previous laws, and I mention them because it's all about them today, and it represents one whole. The accent is placed on dual education from secondary school to higher education, and in order to train these students to work concretely, because it is not essential for us to be formal, but essential education. It is very good that co-operation has spread, too, to the Chamber of Commerce and to the Council of Employers, as someone who will give guidance, not to be a co-worker of what she said in Kikinda, where so many teachers will be employed, perhaps not in the next 50 years. To prevent all this, we're just passing these laws. Today we have before us this Law on Higher Education, i.e. the introduction of dual education in higher education and the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. Both of these laws are actually the introduction of order into higher education. The previous ministers did not catch up with this hot potato, and in this case we had the opportunity to see that many in office became untouchable in this area, which eventually built forts from loyal people who protected them, their position and under the password "independence of the university" did what they wanted. We inherited that from the predecessor. The Serbian Progressive Party has chosen Minister Sarcevic and it is fortunate that he has accepted such a very responsible task at all and we have had the case, for example, of the arrogant rector Arsenijević in Kragujevac, who, due to earlier laws, which were made, was in such a position to make a protective circle around him, of the closest relatives, godfathers, friends, placed on the bodies of the general university, which depend on his choice or re-election. The Ministry has fought this non-man, I can say and move on, because there is no untouchable, but realistically not all at once, but gradually. I ask citizens to be patient and surely feel that in all the pores of society, the trend of sunflowers is turned into a trend of progress, just as the SNS came to power in 2012. All that's done is for the better quality of teaching and life of every student and the very purpose of the university is that the professors are there for them, not the other way around. Let me remind you that from the name of the Democratic Party and the democratic authorities before 2012, we inherited a huge number of colleges that came in like mushrooms after the rain, in garages, in basements, in malls and so on. Many didn't have accreditation and students and their parents were cheated, they paid admissions, they paid exams, they got diplomas from colleges that didn't even have a license to work. With the right of citizens, they demand that this control be done by the Ministry, i.e. And to protect them from abuse. The responsible authority is doing it now. The ministry headed by Minister Sarcevic has brought clear criteria for accreditation of private colleges through the National Council and it is only allowed to enroll students after obtaining university accreditation in order to protect students, which is proof that this trend of the sun is interrupted. The previous government established universities with dubious evaluation criteria that undermined the term "academic citizen" and thus the very purpose of the university. Most now there is a need in science, technology, engineering, and then there is a need for young people in the mathematical field. All these solutions did not come by chance, but were considered models of several countries where this showed some success in Denmark, France, Switzerland, Germany, Austria. There are even more countries, as the minister said, and then we sought our model according to the characteristics of our population and our country. I think this model is well done. Serbia is finally on a path from which it must not turn, because that is the way it invests in its people, in education. Our country employs more and more people year after year, and the standard of living is getting better, allowing us the fastest growing economy in the region. It is up to us to work and fight for our Serbia and our SNS which is the engine of progress for our children and our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60272	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60273	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, modern technological development is progressing at high speed, modern technological development lies in companies and provides the possibility for young people to learn in the real working environment. Hence, the growing importance of dual education and the possibility for young people to gain knowledge in two places: theoretically in educated institutions, and practical in companies. It's something that gives quality education. The point is to network knowledge. This model of education creates a stimulating environment for learning, promotes new innovative opportunities. The stimulative environment for many individuals is companies where they can track and engage in the process of work. Young people become more stimulating when they have the opportunity and opportunity to learn something. Also, in this active process, they have the opportunity to look at modern, technical and technological developments. This encourages the development of ideas, an innovative spirit, the motivation of young people. They become more responsible, more reliable. The greatest benefit is the quality of knowledge. The dual teaching model enables a young man to really become an expert who is immediately employable, learning in two places. It's about learning through work. It represents a specific relationship between the employer and the student. Students with an employer conclude a learning contract through work. The point is to learn a job. It will have more practical experience, will increase its competitiveness in the labour market, and will therefore be a priority for employment. Realisation of the dual model will modernise the teaching process through co-operation with the economy and will achieve contact with modern technological achievements. The previous government did not care about the way people were educated, so the process of education itself was not coordinated with the economy. So, without any strategy, without any vision, generations have been educated only in theoretical knowledge, without coordination with the labour market and the inability to employ them. Thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, we introduce a better, better-quality way of education, dual education. All of this will lead to a more coherent relationship, more opportunities and an increase in the quality of the labour market. Benefit will have all the participants in this process students, businesses, states. The advantage is a mandatory contract between a higher education institution and an employer. By obtaining a fee of at least 50% of the basic earning of employees, young people will have an additional motive for learning and working, developing better training and expertise, which is very important, it goes into step with the most developed countries, because this is their modern practice. The dual model in higher education will make education better, better quality applied. All of this is the key to the development and progress of individuals, but also of society, of the state. It is SNS policy, our President Alexander Vukic, to make it even faster and more ready to go in the future and to raise the level on the scale and be even more successful, to create better conditions for young people and to give them a better and more successful future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60274	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. Now the word has Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go, Dr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60275	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, respected associates from the Ministry of Education, colleagues and fellow MPs, so I believe that at least once in our lives we have faced a story of business people, that it is very difficult to find qualified labour, that they find it very difficult to find good and professional personnel for certain jobs that they would immediately hire. The experiments that were carried out in our education system in the past, and let's say, I'm the first generation of targeted Shuvar education, then studying medicine by block system where one, for example, is a key subject for medicine, and that's anatomy, you listen to just one semester and a lot of things like that, led to the fact that we have finished schoolboys, but who aren't trained enough to work and are mostly unemployed. They're unemployed because no employer has any economic interest in hiring such a worker where he has to invest time, resources and resources to train such a job worker. Production and business flows in our country are very dynamic, so the economy is setting before us the task of enabling them easier and faster access to quality personnel who will be able to find employment and provide existence for themselves and their family after schooling. The fact is that industrial production in Serbia is increasing year by year and that many companies and businesses needing qualified staff of different profiles are opening up, but that such profiles are also missing from the labour market. We know that in the last five years in Serbia, or across Serbia, about 180 new factories have been opened, that President Vukic himself opened them and deserved them, means bringing foreign investors into our country, huge engagements, diligence and perseverance. The nice thing is that the development of industrial production will not stop here and will grow from year to year, and that production that is in expansion we must provide adequately trained personnel who will be able to work and earn money. The proposed Dual Education Act will be the turning point in the labour market, and students will be able to meet with the future working environment from day one, and gradually through the work of the future employer to travel their way after schooling, whether by hiring in the profession or by starting their own private business. Before enrolling in dual education students will be able to consider all opportunities and benefits, as well as the lack of this kind of study. The benefits are essentially the professions that students are studying, so students will gain the necessary practical knowledge and will be competitive on the labour market, whether they themselves start a private job or in the employer selection process are more competitive than others who do not have this kind of education. I personally, without any intention of offending anyone, believe that this is the way of study and weightier and more responsible than the classical way of studying. The dual model of study will contribute to the development of innovation research, and this will especially mean smaller companies that are unable to form research development teams due to lack of proper staff. Through a dual model of study, employers will have a direct ear. In addition to students' skills and skills, they will participate in the development of their competences and will also receive a base of quality staff who can be employed immediately after schooling. Students who opt for dual study will be able, if they change their mind, to return to the standard way of studying, but vice versa, and colleges will regulate all such opportunities. As you said yourself, it is a development law and one of the main characteristics of this Law on dual education at higher school institutions is that there is actually this principle of volunteering for this kind of study. Both students and employers and colleges can volunteer to choose him. This law allows students to gain the necessary theoretical and practical knowledge and experience that will be applied and applied in practice by learning through work. Students with an employer, as we have heard, conclude a learning contract through work, while the mutual relationship between a higher education institution and an employer will be arranged by a dual model of study. Also, one of the characteristics of the law is that students in this way do not have the right to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance, but the employer can provide the student with the cost of housing, feeding in the dormitory. Also, the financial security of students was provided through a fee for learning through work at a net level of at least 50% of the basic income of an employee working in the same or similar jobs, of course, in accordance with the law. Data is also the possibility that fees are paid differently per year for studies ranging from 30 to 70%, of course according to students' knowledge, with the level of the study programme paying the learning fee through work must be at least 50% of the basic earnings paid to employees in the same period. We expect young people to acquire not only general and expertise through a dual model of education, but also to develop so-called "the" education. soft skills, such as analysts, communication, team spirit, which are important for building a successful professional career. I expect that we will also be adorned by the epithet that Serbia has good and quality experts. As far as the law on regulated professions is concerned. We already, as you said, adopted so-called. A small law on regulated professions. In fact, under Chapter 3 and our country's EU accession, we are harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, because we want to be ready when that day comes. This law will fully regulate the area of regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications. The aim of the law is to enable the free movement of labour within EU Member States, freedom to provide services and all of this is to prepare our country's entry into the EU. In voting day, we will support, from the SNS and myself, along with my colleagues, these draft laws that are on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60276	Thank you, Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. The People's Messenger, Dr. Milovan Krikapic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60277	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, today I will discuss the proposal for a double model of higher education studies. A lot has been said today about the reasons for this law and its positive sides, so I'm going to try to be as brief as possible. President Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, namely you, Mr Sarčević, as Minister of the Intrinsic Resor, in the context of your complete activities, have approached the extremely serious reform of the education system, particularly in the face of the need for labour markets. In 2017, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Dual Education, thus enabling dual education to be achieved in secondary vocational education. Adhering to the positive experiences of European countries, the need has been established to enable the organisation of a dual study model in the domestic higher education system as well. It is about a model that could be applied depending on the needs of higher education institutions offering academic and vocational education, and they are interested in their students gaining knowledge through learning, through working in companies, so that the work is valued through scholarships, scholarships or some other way. Analyzing the problem from practice and respecting it, we can see that adequate solutions have been found in the new law that will best help improve the functioning of higher education institutions and systems. The problem identified in a number of expert analyses in the previous period was the absence of a link between the labour market and the education system and therefore the need to draft a new law that would lead to improvement in terms of increasing the relativity of higher education compared to labour market needs. Knowledge and appropriate skills are a basic prerequisite for creating a quality society, increasing productivity and competitiveness of the economy. This law creates a prerequisite for an uninterrupted institutional link between the education system, the academic community, the business community and institutions dealing with the monitoring of labour market trends, as well as other executive institutions. I must stress that the implementation of the dual study model will bring a series of benefits to higher education institutions, employers and students. So, the dual model of studies will contribute to the development of research and innovation, as smaller companies are often unable to form research and development teams, primarily because of the lack of appropriate staff, and there are students of the dual model who could be a bond that would point to modern achievements and encourage university and company co-operation to realise scientific and research projects. In addition, during the course of learning through work, employers gain direct insight into the skills of students and participate in the development of their competences, thus giving the employer an indirect base of quality potential employees. In fact, the basic goal of dual education is actually to bridge the gap between theoretical and practical knowledge. It is the adoption of this law that gives a legal framework which is broad enough and which is applied depending on the needs of higher education institutions offering academic and vocational education and which are interested in their students gaining knowledge through learning, through working in companies, and that this work is valued through paying fees, paying tuition, scholarships or otherwise. Practice in countries that have developed a dual model of studies, as well as those that introduced it several years ago has shown that there is a significant interest and appreciation of this model by the economy, thus showing its advantage over the traditional way of studying. Of course, the dual model is not equally applicable to all scientific fields and fields, but it has proved excellent in technical and technological and medical sciences. The dual model of study is not mandatory and higher education institutions should enter its implementation only when they have provided cooperation with reliable motivated employers. Looking at all the facts, the SNS will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60278	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. Now, the word has been made by Parliament MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, Mr. Dickie.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60279	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, I support the draft law on a dual model of higher education studies, which was submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is comprised of the coalition gathered around the SNS, headed by President Aleksandar Vucic. So that there are no objections to why we mention President Vukic on this occasion, I will say – that is because he was the first to bring up the idea of dual education and lifelong education years ago. So, this law whose proposal is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, which you, Mr Minister, are successfully leading, and I thank you for that, I congratulate you, in collaboration with businessmen and employers, i.e. The labour market is a modern law that is first and foremost turned to the future. Therefore, it is a proposal for a law on dual model of higher education studies to regulate this field of education and to provide the model of study with deficit staff on the labour market, creating highly educated, highly specialised and primarily qualified individuals in the future. This law is being passed right now, during the period of economic and economic recovery and Serbia's growth, when more factories have been launched in the country thanks primarily to Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, more investment than in the previous 30 years. Now that the labour market is beginning to feel a lack of highly educated personnel in certain professions, we ourselves see that we have made a huge shift in the issue of curbing unemployment, i.e. In hiring young people. Now that high school graduates graduate from dual education is exactly the time for this law. The law stipulates that students are allowed and offered a dual learning system through work, and later work with learning, by organising a dual model of higher education studies where active classes in higher education institutions, means lectures, exercises and other forms of active teaching, would be represented at least with 450 hours a year, i.e. about 60 working days, and learning through the employer's work also with at least 450 hours, i.e. about 60 working days a year, on average at the level of the entire study programme, and after studies to enable them so-called. Lifelong education with work. Why is that significant? This is important because of the creation of competent highly educated and trained personnel, in line with labour market needs, increasing the competitiveness of Serbia's economy in terms of attracting and bringing in foreign investment, enabling easier employment of skilled personnel, enabling further education and training through lifelong learning, encouraging professional and career development of each individual and for general social development. What especially characterizes this law? I'd say two principles. First, it is the principle of volunteering, both for higher education institutions and for students and for employers. I'll explain. Higher education institutions will willingly accept this model of study, depending on their potential, human resources and interest. Students will also volunteer to determine whether to study in a traditional way or to define themselves for this dual model of education. For employers, this means that they shall determine whether they will participate in this dual education system and whether they will need such personnel or not. The second principle is the principle of competitiveness, both for higher education institutions, for students and employers. Higher education institutions will, in my opinion, be far more competitive on the education market, students will be far more competitive on the labour market, and employers will certainly be more competitive on the economic market because they will have highly educated people, as they need them. Now, Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a question. I ask you – did the promoters also foresee the possibility that the employer would offer a higher education institution and a student that part of those foreseen 450 hours of yearly learning through work, so one part, plan and implement in a place that is, for example, located. outside the Republic of Serbia, abroad, somewhere where the employer already has its own factory, representation or headquarters, if the employer offers and provides all the necessary conditions? For example, if the employer is a car manufacturer, he has his own factory abroad and already developed research and production of electric and hybrid cars but wants to invest in the area and Serbia, to open such a factory here, so he needs highly specialized and qualified personnel for the future. He suggests, for example, that in co-operation with a higher education institution, learning through the work of a certain number of students in that factory abroad, for example in the Czech Republic or Slovakia. Will that be possible? If that's what you predicted, it's good, if you didn't predict it, please, and I suggest you think about it, so we can go one step further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60280	Thank you, Mr. Dickie. The word has a minister, Mr. Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60281	As you've seen, the law has no limitations or particularly dictates that it can or can't, in principle it can and is the subject of a contract. If this is a foreign company that is performing specific training, and this student needs to understand it, and there are no conditions in Serbia yet, it is absolutely logical. We've just been working with the NTU company this summer, leaving our teachers in Munich first, but it's still in the process of a technological process and predicting it, so it's not a problem at all. We are even now a country within the Erasmus+ project so that there is a purpose for someone who wants to introduce that model, let's say in secondary education, to find a partner, say, in Germany, Switzerland, to visit there on purpose, to have children spend some time and teachers. So we've got it all in positive laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60282	Thank you, Mr. Minister. He has a word, i.e. the right to the replica Zvonimir Djokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60283	Thank you. Just for a little while, I guess that sublegal acts can do it even more precisely to regulate and I am grateful for your answer, because I think we live in such a fast time that it's impossible to wait for someone to finish the studies in six, seven, eight, ten and twelve years, and maybe even more years, all of this has to be done faster and that within those four to five years, both theory and practice. Life goes fast, goes on. We have to follow that. Thank you. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60284	Thank you, Mr. Dickie. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60285	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, preparing for today's debate on the draft law on dual model studies in higher education, I returned some 20 years ago, at a time when I was a student, and I realized that all the things I was missing, which I felt were just united, or implemented in this draft of the law. At that time, as a young man who acquired a certain skill in theoretical teaching at the university lacked this particular practice, there was a lack of this some work in the real working environment and of course, believe me, every young man who depends somewhere on the financial assistance of his parents at the time of his study that some financial compensation. It is these two things that I find very important and somewhere of the most important things here in this law, where a student who chooses to study in a dual method of study is also allowed to make for this work that he invests, that is, what some knowledge he has acquired in theoretical teaching simply gets some financial compensation for that same work, which is very important to me, and I trust every young man, that it creates some kind of and forces a man to some kind of maturity. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to commend, i.e. I would like to say, although colleagues before me have said that the draft of this law has led to positive experiences right from countries in our environment, as well as the law on secondary dual education. I'd also look back on the criticism. Of course, we're used to criticizing every law that's been passed here. On this occasion, I'm saying that the criticisms that I've come across that this law is somewhere producing cheap labour, I'm saying it's simply a total absurdity. As someone, or as a mother of two, I would choose, of course, that my children study in a dual method of study, just making comparisons to my studies and what, of course, the dual method of study will provide, means working in a real environment at work, all that I did not have as a student. I've acquired enough skill in that theoretical teaching, but that work somewhere and that I get financial compensation really doesn't have a price. Although I would honestly agree to have my children study without financial compensation. The fact that it provides this real working environment, that kind of competence, that competitive spirit, that makes tomorrow a quality man, and that makes tomorrow a quality worker. As far as compensation is concerned, I don't think it's negligible, and I say, well, from that aspect of my study, because we all wanted to take off somewhere in that period, if I may say from the parent's hump and just that money that's not negligible, that's 50 percent more than the place, the place that this student is working for, that's the man who works in that workplace, the same job, or the same job that he's paid for, of course. I won't talk about that bill much longer, I think it's said enough, I think my colleagues have said enough before me. Of course, I find it very positive, I think you will definitely stay, Mr. Sarcevic, as someone who has introduced the greatest reform in education, definitely. So, someone who comes from Vrnjaka Banja, I'm proud to say that I am grateful to the Ministry of Education, to you, because you helped us by giving us more than 30 million to build, or construction works at our school restaurant. It is now a quality restaurant where students who profile themselves in the Vranjska Banja high school can work realistically here and make it a real environment, to do what they were trained for in school. Of course, not all of this would be and I have to mention that only quality policy, responsible policy, primarily Mr. Alexander Vukic, the Government and of course your respective ministry, shows that we want young people to stay and this bill shows that we want these young people to stay here, so that they school and find their future here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60286	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60287	Thank you, Chairman. What certainly brings pleasure to us as people's representatives who vote legal proposals in this respected home, as well as citizens we represent in the National Assembly, is the fact that the government is fulfilling the promises made during the government's election. In fact, both dual education and improving the quality of higher education were certainly the subject of the Prime Minister's exposé on the day of the government's election in this respected home. We have seen, the Law on dual education has been passed, and today we have a law that improves the quality of higher education. Certainly, Ministers, here you are, the perception of us from the ruling majority but also the good part of the opposition, working hard on reforming Serbian education and fulfilling these promises, but as good as you do for Serbia and the more you work for modernization and Serbia and its education and for the improvement of every child in Serbia, you are more faced with mischievous comments and criticism, unfortunately than many in Serbia. An example of this is the President of the Republic, however good the President of the Republic of Serbia has done for both Serbia and its people, but if you want for our national Corps in general in the Balkans, there are so many pressures and threats both to him and his family. He's no different to you, members of the government, and on your particular case, I remember the Duo Education Act in the high school system two years ago, and all those accusations, the deluded comments that you suffered and as a proposing and we as the MPs who supported your proposal. Two years later, I have to say that the results of the passing of that law and how it exists, and I'm most likely to speak on the case from Subotica, the city from which I came. I am in charge of the acting director to convey my regards to you and to convey the impressions of the application of that law, but also some suggestions and a request for its improvement, of course things can always be better. That's what you said when you passed the law. There are more actors when it comes to the Dual Education Act. First of all, the law is passed because of children and their parents in the first place, because of schools, but ultimately because of society in general. The perception of the law enforcement directors and people active is that both children and parents are, above all, very pleased with the application of this legal solution. When it comes to the second actor of the school, I must say that they have received a new dimension of knowledge transfer, and a whole new quality in the work of school institutions. The third players are companies. Moba's active director and what's a perception on the ground that maybe we should give an additional impulse so that companies themselves are more active in that whole system, that is, to give some kind of a kind of kind of, and to come up with some kind of incentive together, if you're going to end up making a commitment to students who acquire knowledge under such, really good conditions and stay working in these companies. It's about some application from those who are implementing the law and have, I say, so far had experience in these two years and are professional enough to say something on the subject. In any case, we thank you for that because the law gives serious results. I can't help but mention everything you've done when it comes to the reconstruction of schools in Subotica. The music school and the chemical-technology school were completely restored. The renovation of the technical school "Ivan Saric" is under way. This school is big and it is important not only for Subotica, but for the entire Northoba County and the Subotics and residents of northern Serbia know very well what I'm talking about. The city government has always been helpful to you, of course, not to mention the president of the state, who himself advocated the full restoration of schools in Serbia. Here I am, on behalf of all of us Saturdays, asking you to continue working on that field and help reconstruct all our schools in Subotica. I'm sure the city and the mayor and his team will make a good partner in the follow-up. But what I'm also sure is that because of this law on dual education of higher education, you'll also suffer criticism, but I'm sure in a year or two of this place, we, or someone else, will also talk about the positive results of applying this law that is before us today. Well, since we SNS MPs, above all, appreciate the work and results, and since this is the criterion on which we rule both in political life and in support of the government, make sure that because of the results you have so far shown you will have support for this legislative proposal, but also for any future legislative proposals that will contribute to the improvement of both our children and our society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60288	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister with an associate. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law on dual model studies in higher education. The public debate on the law was held in three cities, lasted about 20 days, so that, primarily in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, large university centres. Anyone who wanted to make any suggestion could have made the remark, so tomorrow wasn't enough time. There's been plenty of time. And not only that, there was an e-mail address and it arrived somewhere around 26 remarks, which is very important, the form, with observations. Some of us adopted, some of us didn't, but that's already a question for this room. Unfortunately, we don't have anyone to talk to. It doesn't matter. We're educated people, so we sit here. It's an honor to see you doing your job. What is very important is to point out above all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as one of the elements of the 21st century education priorities, has just set up a dual education. The bill refers to the alignment of the higher education system with the need for higher education. The Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2017, introduces new legal solutions that allow for institutionalisation of co-operation between businesses, i.e. employers and higher education institutions. The dual model of study also treats the employer as an environment for learning students along with a higher education institution. It's what matters what people who look at us need to know. It is a kind of learning, i.e. training involving three groups of participants, primarily students, but also higher education institutions and employers. The main goal of dual education is to bridge the gap between theoretical and practical knowledge. The adoption of a double model law would create an appropriate legal framework defining the content and way of achieving a dual model of higher education studies, mutual rights and obligations of students, higher education institutions and employers, as well as material and financial security of students. The Higher Education Act, adopted in 2017, provides a legal basis for regulating co-operation between higher education institutions and employers. Thanks to the positive experiences of European countries, the need to organise dual studies in the domestic higher education system has been created. The goal is for their students to gain knowledge through learning, as well as ours, and through the work of companies and for this work to be valued, for example. Paid scholarships, scholarships or some other way. The introduction of a legal basis for the implementation of the dual model of higher education studies achieves the objectives of reforming the education system. First of all, increasing the relevance of higher education, then increasing the possibility of hiring finished students, as well as modern teaching through co-operation with economy and technological achievements. The dual model of study will bring many benefits for higher education institutions, employers and students. Networking employers leads to mutual co-operation which contributes to regional development. Completed students by dual model increase their competitiveness on the labour market, have a better chance of hiring with employers. This law will have an impact on the following groups: higher education institutions, employers, students and the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposals for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60290	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60291	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with a co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs. Investment in education is certainly an investment in development. Advanced development of Serbia is the goal of SNS policy and the goal of Alexander Vukic's policy. Employment of young people and employment according to their knowledge, with their abilities, with their competences and, of course, with fair compensation, is also the goal of the policy of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I have to point out is that for the first time, students and students in the Republic of Serbia have equipment, programs and knowledge from industry 4.0. The area of industry 4.0 means that companies that come to the Republic of Serbia come to modern technology, the only way students and students get to know modern technology is through dual education. I will set an example of one of the largest German aircraft factory for the production of aircraft works intended to come to Serbia and as one of the basic criteria has just listed a dual education conducted at the Air Force Academy in Belgrade, means complete preparation and full opportunity for experts for this airline to be found right here in Serbia, or Belgrade. These are not little paid jobs, these are also how well-paid jobs are and this is one way for young people to stay in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I must say that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made huge investments in infrastructure, which is 150m euros, for 128 schools. Some of these schools are located in the municipality of Priboj from which I come. I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests in Kosovo and Metohija in the education system, the oldest professional school in KIM, which is the Agricultural School in Leška, has been restored of course. This way, I would also like to invite Serbs from KIM to go to the KIM elections on 6 October and vote for the Serb list because it is the only way of our prosperity, preserving our identity and the future of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60292	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, knowledge is a wealth that follows its owner everywhere. Knowledge needs to be applied. Knowledge acquired by dual education is richer than diamond and gold wealth. But when we talk about dual education, let's see who we're going to do a dual education on. Serbia is a emptying country. Serbia is a country that is currently making economic progress, but Serbia is a country that will only be a small and larger nursing home. Dual education is the knowledge that is applicable. Knowledge that is not applicable to us farmers is like plowing without sowing. It's a knowledge that's not applicable, no results. So we have a sea of people who want to be managers. But what will they manage if there is no manufacturer? Dual education is very important for investment. Maybe it's just a dual education to define an investor to come into this country. And investment brings technological development, investment brings economic development, investment improves both science and technology. No investments, no economic progress. Today when Dragan Gilas is talking about some storm that's gonna hit us, he forgets he was a tsunami. This tsunami cleaned up not only the economy, but also the school system that was nakaradan and that produced diplomas for nothing. So he produced knowledge without applicable knowledge. The tsunami, the Democratic Party and the parties that came under that yellow corner, is the main reason why the country has returned economically. There's a hurricane and Dragan Gilas when he talks about some storm that's supposed to hit us, he needs to know that we survived that hurricane that has one leech. That yellow leech was Dragan Gilas. So he cut out those 619m euros from the country's economic system, he also sucked out 400,000 jobs and left allegedly educated people who are unusable without applicable knowledge. No investment will come into this country because of such footage. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we need to know that I always cheer for work. Therefore, the income between capital and labour should be shifted over time towards work. But the moment there's no investment, we have nothing to share. The goal is to attract investment. Today in globalisation, when customs rates are low or falling around the world, labour funds are very easy to move. Maybe it's funny to someone, but they can leave here in Vietnam, Indonesia, to African countries, where they work in one dollar an hour. That labor force probably isn't dual-educated, but it's cheap. So I'm saying that dual education can be what will define an investor to invest in this country, knowing that we have capable, valuable and educated people, whose knowledge is not only paper and diploma, but knowledge is acquired in some plants and factories, so that they can easily get a worker they will appreciate, and hopefully, soon, and pay well. The moment this country acquires enough investment, then the unions need to get on stage and then it needs their work to get a far higher price than it does right now. So I believe that our people under the same conditions can be of sufficient quality and quality workers than in Germany, which they have shown in Germany itself. If they get a chance to gain knowledge and apply it in their country, I believe it will be more efficient, both in the economy and in agriculture. I believe that our agronomists and peasants with incentives supplied by the EU and the common European agricultural policy can give a far better result than they can at this point because subsidies are not only enriched by farmers. Subsidies are, above all, good for processing to make sure that they will be supplied with raw materials and that this will be a favourable price, because we allow donations and subsidies for processors to produce a cheaper and more quality product. Our agronomists, our veterinarians, our farmers who in any case have more knowledge than professional equipment are ready for developed and modern Serbia. There are a number of people who do not see Serbia as an advanced and economically developed country, who would like it to go back a few years, and that, apart from the progress of the general society, it is their individual progress, that those 690m euros that the hurricane yellow leech has sucked into the pockets of Dragan Gilas and his alliance of thieves and frauds, to restore that time. It is up to us and the voters who support this policy, not only in political terms, but also in economics, to prevent that tsunami and that yellow hurricane and that yellow leech from coming back on stage. That's why I call on voters to make all those who boycott this National Assembly boycott because they are not worthy of their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-09-0.u60294	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Since no one is asking for a word, I conclude a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the agenda. I thank all the MPs for today's work, of course, Minister Sarčević and his associates. I'll see you tomorrow. We'll continue at 10:00. Thanks again.
