ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63980	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 73 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63981	I would like to ask Alexander Vukic, the President of the Republic and Ana Brnabic, the prime minister of Serbia – why our authorities incorrectly reacted to this so-called "execution". A spy affair that reportedly involves Russian military intelligence? That it's really an affair way is inappropriate. First, they saw the video. If anyone asks them, they should say - we've ordered the competent authorities to do all the research, as soon as the investigation is complete we'll let the public know and that's it. We hear Anna Brnabic say yesterday – the situation is very serious. What's serious? Is the war threatening? Is there a bomb threat? What secret could some of our officers possibly have discovered to the Russian intelligence? Is there a secret that the Russians and Americans don't know about? There isn't. What's the matter, then? What's the emergency? Then why the emergency meetings of the highest national security authorities? It only ignites an affair in public and it's as if we're going on hand several months ago with a hinted American spy operation to tackle Russian influence in the Balkans. That's what the Americans, even, informed us through the media, hinted. Without Russian support and help, there's nothing we can do. Maybe it was a spy who wanted something, but what? And if it was something sensitive to us, it ends with the official dementation of our government to a Russian government that the public doesn't need to know about. What great force does not have its own spying in Serbia's space? Come on, just tell me. Is there one? What neighbouring country doesn't have its own spying? We've got ours, she's no match for the other one, but even in Russia, we have ours. We've got them everywhere, and that's normal. One serious state, one great force spying on both friends and enemies, must have as much information as possible. In the end, you know, if a hickey goes against Russia, it reminds me of 1948, will the hack ever come back to infobirovers? Will the Goli Island be opened again? If it comes to that, here, I sign up. Between Tito and Stalin, I would always define myself as Stalin, and if there happens to be an insulation of the infobers, here, I'm first, volunteering. I'm not calling for immunity. Don't play with it, it's very serious stuff. While we have an official NATO pact office in the Serbian Army's general staff and two large spies in the government, Zoran Mihajlovic and Rasim Ljajic. Zorana works for the Americans, Rasim for the English. Everybody knows that. That's what the government ministers know a lot better than I do. When Vukic wants something classified to deal with ministers, he never calls them. There's a few more that don't call, that's what you know, better than me. Don't, people. Let's calm it down a little bit. It can't do us any good if we hit it out loud, if we're making a halabuca. Maybe the man wanted to buy a car of a bear, so his cows wouldn't burn this winter, the Siberian winter in Russia was expected. This was a little bit of cash. If it's the euro, then I assumed it's 100 euros apiece, that's what it looks like. That's about 1,000 euros in total. Guys, what's so worth 1,000 euros? Maybe the license to manufacture the barrels sold someone. There is still no telling which Serb he is, if at all he is a Serb, with whom he has contacted. Let our services find out in peace, investigate, suspect incarceration, report to the competent authorities, and then give the public some information that doesn't have to be comprehensive, to give the contours what it is, and that's enough. Our friendly relations with Russia must continue as if nothing had happened. Imagine the Americans returning to our situation from the '90s, breaking up with Russia and then pushing us. At the time of the Christmas tree, Russia was on its knees, and when it wanted it, it couldn't help. Don't say now – we're sick of it, you don't give our advisors diplomatic status in Nis, you're having affairs, we're done, you're fighting for yourself. It's no good, don't let it happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63982	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63983	Thank you. I would like to remind you of yesterday, November 20th – World Children's Day. On 20 November 1989, the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the first international document that deals in a comprehensive way with the rights of the child. The Convention constitutes a framework for the promotion and exercise of children's rights and is based on four basic principles: the right to life, survival and development. The best interest of the child is the right to participation and the right to non-discrimination. As one of the first signatories of the Convention on Rights, the Republic of Serbia has made great efforts to bring national legislation into line with the Convention with the aim of achieving child rights in the field of social protection, education, health care, prevention of discrimination, social inclusion. In the Strategy for Prevention and Protection against Discrimination, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by 2018, children are recognised as a social group at an increased risk of discrimination, especially children exposed to poverty, children living and working on the streets, children who are victims of violence and exploitation, children of a certain health condition, with developmental disorders and children with disabilities. Although Serbia is known as one of the countries where significant progress has been made in the area of protecting children's rights, we still face major problems in the area of child protection. The biggest of all the problems that come from others is the poverty of children, especially children of Roma origin. In addition to poverty, the big problem of children is also insufficient health care, insufficient involvement in the educational process and socialisation. Also, violence among children is on the rise. In recent days, we have often heard about the serious problem of peer violence, especially among children of primary and secondary schools. Unfortunately, they are often exposed to domestic violence as well as to violent training methods, which affect the child’s overall development. Children represent the most vulnerable part of the population and as such must not only be the concern of the family, but also the concern of society, state authorities and institutions. One proverb says: a child's life is a piece of paper on which everyone leaves a note. That is why it is necessary for all together, both family and society and state institutions, to actively work to improve children's rights, to make it easier for children to achieve them, but also to protect them from those who violate them. We know that in the process of making child rights laws and child rights protectors, it is as a document that would deal in a comprehensive way with the protection of children's rights. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister for Labour and Employment, Combat and Social Affairs when can we expect the draft law on child rights and child rights to be found in the assembly procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63984	Would any of the other presidents, or representatives of the authorised parliamentary groups, like to request a notice? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63985	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to the parliamentary issue, I would like to inform the public that today is the 325th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work, for which they receive their salary neatly. The vast majority of them are constantly working in the National Assembly, thus showing their attitude towards the function they perform towards the National Assembly, as well as the citizens of Serbia. My question has been addressed to the Ministry, as well as to the Prosecutor's Office, and to threats to the Director of the Sports Centre "25. May - Milan Gale Muskatirović" Jovanu Knezevic. In July of this year, to remind the public, the City of Belgrade took over the institution and then appointed a new leadership. Until then, the General Director, or Sports Centre "Milan Gale Muskatirović", was under the control of GO Old Town, whose head is Marko Bastac, whom citizens call "the bag". He got a nickname because he likes to beat people up and harass people by tying them up and putting a bag on their heads. But what's particularly symptomatic here? It is that the threats to the new director arrived the day before the scheduled press conference, and at which they were published horrendous, let me say, evidence of the malversions of Mark Bastac and his associates at the time when they controlled the work of SC "Milan Gale Muskatirović", but also GO Old Town. The city of Belgrade's budget inspection made reports on the 274 sides of the non-domestic and protracted relationship with SC "Milan Gale Muskatirovic" and all resulted in debts, minuses and losses of nearly two million euros. Imagine a sports facility making a loss of nearly two million euros in a few years? Imagine that amount of illegality and irregularities in work, in one word, when experts managed to make a loss of nearly two million euros? I'll just mention some of the irregularities. The town municipality of Stari Grad paid at the expense of the sports centre 2.96 million dinars to cover the cost of insurance of property managed by the sports centre, and before the adoption of a special programme for the use of municipal aid. So, let me make it simple. They've got money on their eyes. So I pay you money and I trust you on the word that you're going to spend that money on purpose. Then, the sports centre gave 543 thousand dinars to the supplier "Profi TEAM Plus", although the supplier did not provide any evidence that he did the service. Let's move on. The accounts of 4,74 dinars did not sign a responsible person to confirm credibility. Then, for the whole 2018, the sports centre spent on the name of the transportation for arrival and return from the work of employed persons, although they did not have a contract with the sports centre. Let's move on. The Youth Association "Dis Millennium" paid 440,000 dinars for hiring people for whom jobs could not be determined, and the same association paid 890,000 dinars for hiring workers without public procurement. So these are just some of the examples and then after this we have death threats. So, open death threats by calling the director's wife and threatening him and his children. I have reason to believe that the motive of these threats is to present information about the malfeasance and theft of Mark Bastac and his associates at the sports center, but also in the Old Town municipality, because they only know it is to threaten and call for persecution and a lynch of all those who don't think like him. Just look at the monstrosities they wrote and published all these days when it was announced that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic ended up on VMA because of health problems. They simply competed in monstrosity and vulgarity. They simply wished even for the death of the President of the Republic. I ask how sick you must be, so you can call for someone's death and wish for someone's death because you don't agree politically with them? Here's what it looks like, Chairman. That Jaksic Marko from Northern Mitrovica says -- a friend of the Wolf died. It tweets on your official Twitter warrant. We also have this comedian in an attempt by Ivan Ivanovic, who also tweeted a shameful tweet. I don't know if the camera can zoom in on this. He's probably nervous about the ratings. So we have Sergei Trifunovic, the same shameful tweet. All of this culminated in a certain Vladlan Slavkovic, the council member in the City of Kings Assembly, who says it might be more politically correct to put five bullets in his back and get drunk after the assassination. Then he was at the hearing, and he was taking out and saying he was just joking, and the N1 was reporting from the hearing and saying, "He's been heard about tweets in which, among other things, bullets are mentioned." Well, it's not a tweet that mentions bullets, it's an open threat. The man says -- maybe it's more politically correct to put five bullets in his back. What is this tweet that mentions bullets, it is a direct threat, but what do you expect from N1 TV when we heard how many Shiparian couples ended up in the accounts of Yugoslavia's Cosic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63986	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My first question goes extremely to the address of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of Serbia and concerns this affair with or without quotes, which has been present in the media in recent days regarding the alleged activity of Russian spies, as sensationalistly announced. Of course, I support any action that goes in the direction of determining the facts and protecting the state and constitutional order, but I would draw attention to the fact that a few months ago in public, here in Serbia, I, in my own question, had a similar, although intrinsic affair, so on the other hand. The Omca action, also launched through a part of Serbian media on the secret plan of the pro-Western forces to destabilise the state, including the highest threat to the security of top state officials. With that in mind, I asked a parliamentary question here and after a long time, recently, literally a few days ago, I received an answer from the BIA saying that they had no knowledge of the action “Omča,” although for days we were talking about it in our public. So, one thing is to investigate, take the necessary measures to preserve constitutional order, and something else is to give up to the lowest passions of public and sensationalism. The media can also do so if they are to bear or do not carry the consequences in accordance with the law, the state authorities may not. I didn't accidentally remind myself of this a few months ago with that Omča affair, which, fortunately, turned out to be a firecracker, whether media, whether propaganda and without foundation. Now, as I recall, however, at that time, the top state officials did not in any way pour oil on fire, as they were now pouring in, I think that the defence minister's statements and the Prime Minister's announcements of this extraordinary session of the National Security Committee, or the National Security Council, represent a kind of oiling on fire. They say: “With all the support to get things out of hand, ” I don’t think that’s the way it is done. We look a bit like those heroes of the famous movie "Three Cards for Hollywood", where local Russian and American russians, expecting a world war, are shooting in some hole in Serbia. So it all seems so falsical. In this regard, supporting the efforts to get the matter to the end of the cleanup, but at the same time warning that there is a need to take care of the protection of the country's strategic and long-term interests, I am going back to my previous question, i.e. to welcome and commend the Ministry of Defence which answered my previous parliamentary question regarding the Krusik affair and the ban, i.e. by not allowing Krusik to export mines to Armenia. This is the second institution that came forward after the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Defence called, and so I'm just repeating my question about the affair, or maybe it's not an affair, in this case since 13 April 2018, asking the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of the Interior and the BIA, because the answers from those three institutions were left behind, which of those three institutions denied the permission of Krusik, and after a few months allowed a private company to export the same mines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63988	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63989	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Parliament Club, of course, supports the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which have been defined by the draft budget law for 2020. We believe that the draft budget is realistic, that it is realistic, that it is well planned in the given frameworks, that it is developmental and that it is based on economic and positive indicators resulting from the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose foundations are set in 2014. We are fully convinced that by realising the defined budget targets for 2020, they will contribute to our country's economic growth and economic progress in 2020. As I said, what is fundamentally important is that the draft budget is developmental and it is true that you said in the opening statement, it is the end of the process of consolidation and the beginning of development and growth and Serbia must and should remain on that path. This represents and encourages the development of the economy and for the next year we think the projected real growth rate is 4%. You also said that the budget is a flat redistribution of financial space and that we agree, in the sense that one part is aimed at improving living standards, above all, towards increasing wages, towards increasing pensions, towards increasing labour prices. The labour price is 172.5 dinar per hour, and from 1 January 2020, the minimum will be 30,022 dinars, which is an increase of 11.1 compared to 2019. When we add all of this together, about improving living standards, it's about 1.3% of GDP. The second part is aimed at fostering growth and development through the realisation of public investment and through, above all, labour discharge. We believe that Serbia is on the right track and that there are better and positive economic indicators in each sector based on real and healthy foundations. We also believe that the most important thing at this point is to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements, to use their benefits in the future in the right way and to accept all those initiatives and incentives leading to growth and development. During yesterday, first of all from the Assembly Hall by those who represent themselves as part of the opposition that does not participate in the work of parliament, it could have been heard several times through this political monologue, or it was like those kats with an imaginary opponent when you are not ready to participate in the debate and then you go out to the assembly hall and recite what you have, you could hear more than one time that the budget is pre-election. On the contrary, the budget is not pre-election because if it were to talk about the oldest population, the increase in pensions, for example, would not be realistic 5.4% for next year but would be far greater. This is how we have one responsible and serious approach to the government of the Republic of Serbia. So we have an increase in pensions and we have a plus in the government register. It would be irresponsible and unserious if it were to be handled far more from the budget to raise wages and pensions, and we had a minus in the government's register. We have, like you said, so-called. "Switzerland model" and it is actually an increase that will depend on the level of inflation and the height of the growth rate. We believe that it wants to preserve, maintain macroeconomic stability, that it will not endanger the stability of public finances and that in the long term it is a guarantee of the stability of the budget, that such a system for representatives of the oldest population and the fairer and fairer and what is very important is more predictable, but that it is also sustainable. Of course, we support and this has been said by the SPS parliamentary group, we support the strategic objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to reduce the unemployment rate. We had a record 2012 of 25.9%, today we have 10.3%, actually for the first seven months the second quarter 10.3%. By the end of December, we believe and we are confident that it will be below the record 10%. The amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, which will be found in the Assembly procedure, will certainly facilitate new employment because employers will be exempt from profit tax, from PIO taxes. Also, real profit growth in the first half of this year is 7.3%. He is conditioned, above all, by increasing profits in the private sector, but after the increase in public sector wages, we believe that the goal set by the government of the Republic of Serbia will be realised, which is that average earnings in Serbia will be higher than 500 euros in late December. After a series of reforms made by the Ministry, which the Government has also made, an Alternative Investment Funds Act has been adopted, amending the Investment Funds Act and with a capital market development strategy, we believe that this will allow for a greater number of sources of funding for the economy itself. The first implementation of the new public sector wage system since January 2021 is also expected, and a regulation on the public sector profit coefficient is expected in the second half of the following year. We want better healthcare and far greater investment in health infrastructure is visible. We want a more efficient public self-government. It is of course necessary to enable employment, but it is necessary in an adequate way and to train the people we hire. I'll remind you, the maximum number of employees law ceases to apply at the end of this year. So it will be possible to hire the one, I would say, necessary when, when it comes to the public sector, but the government must certainly make a new mode, when it comes to the border, taking care of the number of employees, above all, in the public sector. The significant item of the draft budget is certainly the allocations for capital investments, which we support and welcome. For capital investments this year, 198.9 billion dinars were allocated. Most of these funds will be directed towards transport and rail infrastructure. Our position on this issue is quite clear, we believe there is no economic, without infrastructure development. On the other hand, this way and through the implementation of projects, which are very precise and clearly defined, also improves the living conditions of citizens. And we agree with you when you say this is the beginning of a national investment plan. Also, there has been an increase in the amount to improve infrastructure in the field of environmental protection and what is particularly important, an increase in the amount of allocated funds for the treatment of rare diseases. The amount will now be 2.4 billion dinars in the budget. Of course, more investment in innovation and education will allow Serbia to get closer to EU countries at the unemployment rate. Serbia became the world leader in attracting foreign direct investment and this was the case during yesterday's debate. So in the first seven months of this year, there were 2.32 billion euros in foreign direct investment, an increase of 43% compared to the same period last year. Serbia has continued its regional leadership in attracting foreign direct investment. In 2018, Serbia attracted more foreign investment than the entire region and the Balkans combined. This isn't just our finding, this is the findings and the Financial Times. One of the world's largest rating agencies, Fitch Ratings, has increased Serbia's credit rating, which is also positive and Moody's rating has improved Serbia's credit rating prospects from stable to positive. I think this is the best answer to the issues we have heard in recent days and months from representatives of a part of the opposition, as corruption is, in Serbia, a crime. And now I ask you, Minister, would foreign investors come to a country where corruption and crime or in a country where we have both political and economic stability, in a country where, above all, through incentives given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through laws adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have a positive business climate, a positive business environment and an atmosphere? All this certainly makes Serbia an attractive investment destination. In addition, Serbia has made progress on the world's "Ding Business List" for four seats. We expect that Serbia will continue to grow faster next year and that this is a confirmation, above all, of the results so far. At the very end, something that's not directly connected to the budget. We heard that from opposition representatives and parliament during last night's debate. In fact, part of the opposition has often been called to the European Commission's report and the part concerning the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, while participating in the work. At the invitation of the president, which was addressed in March of the month, to discuss exactly how to discuss how to implement those suggestions and proposals, to improve parliamentaryism, to improve parliamentary dialogue and parliamentary practice, they did not find it appropriate to respond and to talk. In fact, they did not find it appropriate to discuss all important topics, including election conditions, water in parliament, but in a pub, on the street or under the tent, as some kind of tribal alliance. What I am saying is that we have implemented the most of these suggestions and the proposal and that, just at the beginning of this session, by accepting the proposal to double the debate, as well as the way and time interval at which the budget was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that MPs have enough time to analyse it, to take certain political views, in fact, to meet all those suggestions and proposals contained in that financial report. Is that enough to finally, as they say, have this democratic debate or democratic dialogue? It's not for them. So it is not essential that someone wants to prevent democratic debate and democratic dialogue in parliament. The bottom line is that we have one impotence and an unwillingness to conduct a debate on key laws in an argument. We believed that we would finally have an opportunity from that part of the opposition to at least discuss the most important legislative proposal, because the budget is life, here in parliament we finally hear whether there is another way, whether there is another direction for Serbia to go, and that this path is not a list of good wishes, that it is a guarantee and a better standard of living for citizens and greater economic growth and new jobs and new factories. Unfortunately, here, I think this is the last budget to adopt this assembly, they've participated in previous discussions, we haven't heard those proposals, we haven't heard them today. We listen to criticism for criticism and for the fabrication of some new affairs every day trying to cover up these shortcomings. No politics, no ideas, no suggestions, but, I repeat, by generating daily new affairs, it tries to reach cheap political points, not realizing the citizens' trust doesn't seem to come in such a way. Citizens' confidence is through results, and the results are certainly the results of facts, indicators are on the side of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63990	Thank you. The word is Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63991	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, dear fellow Members of Parliament, it is an honor and pleasure to talk about the 2020 budget, which the great winning team has brought. When we passed various laws, we had the opportunity to see for ourselves the expertise and knowledge of many ministers, and now we have an insight, a report on the work of ministries for the previous year, and from which we can clearly see how much progress has been made. The recognitions also come from relevant institutions, which monitor Serbia's progress closely, so that constant growth is recorded on the "Ding Business List" for four places. Then, the drop in interest rates suggests greater stability in the country. President Aleksandar Vukic knows how to choose the right people in the right places, and that requires knowledge and vision. With his vision, he also chose the current prime minister of the government, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, who has placed the scale high. In his example, he showed that hard work can be accomplished. This budget is up-to-date, as well as the pace this government has been going on, and that is a commitment to the citizens of Serbia, because they deserve a better life. I repeat the sentence that I mentioned in earlier exhibitions, but which, with little words, paints a lot, which is that Serbia is a small country, but it did not prevent Aleksandar Vukic from being a great statesman. Serbia is small in space, and by the number of inhabitants, but our president is a great man in words and deeds and with his personal pawn, but all others who follow his policy and his principles have managed to bring a record number of foreign direct investment into the country. At the end of the third quarter of 2019, unemployment fell below 10%, which is record-breaking, and as of January 1st, minimum earnings have increased to 30,022 dinars. Modern business requires constant adaptation to emerging macro-level market structures. The most often applies is a two-fold strategy, which is, on the one hand, a reduction in costs, and on the other hand, growth through diversification. Serbia fully transformed in seven years from an economy characterised by a stagnation of growth and a high unemployment rate in a growing low-inflation economy, a declining public debt and recovery of the labour market. The budget is back in surplus for the fourth year in a row and we continue in the same trend. The 2020 budget is completely balanced. What makes me so happy is that it is characterized by a social aspect, which is related to an increase in living standards. Also, there are record allocations for capital investments, which need to achieve GDP growth. The budget for next year is the result and continuation of the reform processes that have been launched and which has resulted in the results that we can be proud of. All reform processes, both in fiscal and monetary policy, raise the attractiveness of our business for foreign investors, which is crucial to us. Economic activity, which has seen intensive growth throughout the year with strong investment activity and greater personal consumption of households. Thanks to favourable developments in the real sector and parallel to economic growth, there is a reduction in unemployment. In the first nine months of this year, we recorded a 33% growth in the inflow of foreign direct investment compared to last year. The budget is a great fourth year in a row, and can it be better? I'm sure he can. But not only should we criticise, but also say, well done, you have turned the trend of the country's solar system. We all need to work together to make progress that creates the top of the state as fast as possible and as much as possible. We need to work to improve the judiciary in the coming period, because that's what people expect of us, which is speed and efficiency. Also, the work of local authorities, which is closest to citizens, as it concerns solving specific problems, for the country may be small, but for each individual of great and vital importance, it is also important to select with great care the representatives of the local government, whose actions must speak more than words. That's what citizens will recognize and appreciate, but also lead to faster regeneration of the country. After the consolidation and establishment of economic stability, the responsible policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for Serbia being on a healthy path towards further economic growth and development. The minister, Sinisha Mali, is an excellent finance minister, as was the mayor. Whatever assignment he gets, he does it maximum, and that's my opinion, but this time it's also proof that whoever works and makes a big effort, it's always worth it and gives adequate results. Congratulations. I am personally very proud to be a member of the SNS that is the bearer of change and that, with effort, work, diligence and energy, lays the foundation of a normal, decent state, which was done more than in the previous 40 or 50 years. To remind the citizens of Serbia what we did in the short term, because we Serbs are known to have short memories. That, we prevented Serbia's bankruptcy, fixed the business environment and brought major direct investment. They're not selling out the best companies anymore, they're saving the failed and the devastated. The level of investment increased by over 35% in the third quarter of 2019. Unemployment was reduced below 10%. We have preserved peace and stability despite many pressures. In the end, we made the most roads and highways than in the last 40 or 50 years. Success is evident and indisputable and we are proud of the great statesman Aleksandr Vukic, who returns the reputation of Serbia. The more successful Serbia is on the economic plan, and the more friends it has in the world, the more successful it is, the more successful it is, the more louder it is, the more it is being told lies, the better it is, and the more physical attacks are becoming more frequent. There have been so many lies and nonsense from the self-proclaimed opposition that I can only quote Albert Einstein - human stupidity and the universe are infinite, but I mean, I'm not sure about this other thing. Let's let them go, congratulations on the excellent budget, which promises an even better and happier 2020 for Serbian citizens. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63992	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63993	How much time does he have?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63994	A little over seven minutes, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63995	I'd like you to give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63996	It's okay, I'll count, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63997	The Honorable Minister, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not talk in the general section about the budget that he is developmental, that he is investmental, etc., we have heard that, and for a little while I will move on to the specific questions I want to point out here. I would refer to two segments of the budget relating to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, headed by Minister Branko Ruzic. The first concerns strengthening the capacity of local self-government to meet citizens' needs. I would like to commend the effects already observed by the application of the eGovernment Act, and when a single population register is established as of 1 January 2020, which will unite 11 existing databases, then citizens will really relax, because all documents can then be obtained on one counter. I must say that the beginning of this law is exactly a project of the Ministry, and started at the beginning of this government's mandate, to establish a single administrative post, and that is a major step forward in the service of what should be the citizens' interest. In the 2020 budget, 30 million dinars have been allocated to improve this function. It also praised the increase in the amount from year to year, and for the need to strengthen local self-government through co-financing of local projects. It is about the Budget Fund for Local Self-Government Programmes, which finance cultural and sports events that affirm local self-government, financing of infrastructure projects, roads, waterways, sports fields, homes of culture, kindergartens, etc., as well as the purchase of IT equipment. In the 2020 budget, it plans for this purpose 520 million dinars. To remind you, in 2017 there were only 10.4 million dinars, in 2018 320 million, in 2019 490 and now 30 more, which means 520 million. Also, I would like to remind you that the Republic of Serbia took from the European Development Bank a loan financed by projects in local self-government, in co-operation with the UNDP, of course, in partnership with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and local self-government. It's my pleasure to say that Petrovac is also on the Mlava, where I come from, part of these projects that will be reconstructed and restored to the community council. The second segment refers to supporting the autonomous functions of national minorities through the Budget Fund for National Minorities. This fund came from a modest 2.1 million dinar, over 21, as it was this year, and for 2020 it will be 30 million dinars and it is designed to improve the education of national minorities. It would be desirable for the next budgets, in the years to come, to be higher. Finally, it is an opportunity to state that the funding of national councils of national minorities from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of local self-government for some national councils is very scarce and insufficient. As an example, I will cite the Vlach national minority who experiences itself and considers itself an indigenous national minority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. With such a definition, Vlachs do not have their queen outside Serbia. Unlike the weeds of a national minority, some other or larger numbers have their own queen in other countries that are involved in their financing and assistance in different ways. The annual transfer to the National Council of Vlaha is about 7.3 million dinars, while local self-governments are insufficiently involved or modestly identifying funds in their local budgets. In addition, national councils, based in the AP Vojvodina, have additional revenue from the AP Vojvodina budget. With that in mind, I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Minister to take care of this, because Vlachs have always been with the Republic of Serbia through history. They see Serbia as their country, and Serbia should also do more for Vlahe. Thank you and we'll vote of course for the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63998	The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u63999	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 and it is about the development budget, as we had the opportunity to hear in yesterday's debate by the Prime Minister and by the finance minister, but also by fellow Members. Why is it important to stress that we are discussing the development budget today? That is why when some others ruled Serbia in their pre-election years, their governments proposed pre-election budgets, and their MPs adopted such budgets regardless of whether the budget was driven exclusively by political interests harmful both to citizens and to the economy. There is a huge difference between the budget in the election years of the previous government and the budget that we are discussing today. The previous government, at any cost in the pre-election years and in the election years, has raised both salaries and pensions, and these increases have been financed from expensive loans with interest rates of 7% and 8% and today, the states and citizens of Serbia are returning, paying off the whims of previous authorities. In our 2020 budget, there is a projected increase in pensions and salaries but thanks exclusively to the surplus that we achieved in the first nine months of 2019, worth more than 60 billion dinars. There is a huge difference when you pay the salary and pension increase out of expensive loans and thus burden the next generations, as did the previous government, and when you pay the pension and salary increase out of the savings that the state has made with a responsible policy. In 2019 we had no elections, and the 2019 budget was also developmental and thanks to such a budget we achieved huge results in 2019. In the first six months, only in the first six months we managed to reduce the unemployment rate by about 4% in 2019 compared to 2018 and these are not final results. However, the unemployment rate of 10.3%, which applies to the second quarter of 2019, is also the lowest unemployment rate since Serbia's unemployment rate, respectively, since 1995. Only when the Republic Statistics Institute publishes data for the third, fourth quarter will we have the right picture of the unemployment rate, and the real expectations of the government of the Republic of Serbia are that it will be single-digit. I particularly look forward to the fact that the 2020 budget is directed from one side to the growth of living standards, and on the other hand to economic growth and development. With regard to the growth of living standards, the 2020 budget covers all three categories of population, which are employees of the public sector, employees of the private sector and pensioners. When it comes to public sector employees, we have been starting with higher salaries since November. When it comes to private sector employees from January 1st, we will have a minimum labour price increase of 27,022 dinars to 30,022 dinars and that is the biggest increase ever. That's not all. The State shall, by way of measures to disbursement the economy by reducing the rate based on the contribution of the PIO Fund by one percentage and by increasing the non-taxable share of profits for thousands of government dinars, leave an economy of as much as 13.1 billion dinars of free money that businesses will be able to use either to increase the salaries of existing workers or to employ new workers or to invest. When it comes to our oldest citizens, i.e. a million and 700 thousand of our pensioners, as we have heard from our colleagues in the 2020 budget, an increase in pensions is projected at 5.4% in the Swiss model. Why do we often highlight the Swiss model? Because the government accepted the Swiss model exclusively for reasons because it implies that pension coordination is carried out each year in line with the inflation rate and the growth rate in the economy relative to 50 to 50, which is also the most realistic. Many countries have accepted the Swiss model because it has proved to be extremely good. I noted that the 2020 budget is also aimed at economic growth and development. And in 2020, we continue to build infrastructure, start a new investment cycle. In the coming days, it moves with the construction of the Moravia Corridor. In 2020, we begin, i.e. with the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor and the construction of the highway towards BiH, towards Republika Srpska and the construction of the E 80 highway, i.e. the construction of the highway "Mira" section of Nis-Medara, with the construction of the fast traffic station Ruma-Sabac-Loznica, etc. So we've managed to build over 320 kilometers of highways, rehabilitate hundreds of kilometers of existing roads, rehabilitate railway infrastructure, and the previous government in 12 years has failed to build a single mile of highway. It is now building road infrastructure, progress on the "Ding Business List" of the World Bank for four positions, successful implementation of digitisation measures, adoption of a dual education model, record low inflation rates are the reasons for the arrival of foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia, and not only subsidies for employment, as the opposition MPs often say. Indeed, he believes that the subsidies for hiring foreign investors are in the last place. They're much more important to these reasons that I just cited. I would also like to point out that the pillars of each country's development are investment in education, investing in scientific and research development, investing in the health system, investing in the conservation of the environment. With this in mind, exactly the 2020 budget, more investment is envisaged in all these areas that I have just cited. We heard from our colleagues in yesterday's debate that 73.3% more funds were intended for the health system in 2020 than in 2019. When it comes to investing in research in 2020, the scientific and technological park in Nis and Novi Sad will be completed, then the "Date Centre" in Kragujevac, etc. will be completed. When it comes to the conservation of the environment, in 2020 we have as much as 8.6% more defined funds to the Green Fund than in 2019. So everything was thought of when the 2020 budget was planned. It is also important to say that the drivers of economic growth - the growth of personal consumption, investment in infrastructure and the inflow of foreign direct investment. The increase in wages and pensions for the result has increased personal consumption and demand. When it comes to investing in infrastructure that we are investing intensively in infrastructure, we are witnessing an economic growth rate of 4.7% in the third quarter of 2019, and according to Eurostat results, we are second in Europe right behind Hungary. When it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment, many international institutions say we are an absolute leader in the region by the inflow of foreign direct investment. So, we've done it all. It's a huge success, you know, when the only problem with the 2020 budget is both by the Fiscal Council and by colleagues from the opposition, the increase in wages and pensions, and of course from real sources of funding. Such a development budget shows why many in the Alliance for Serbia were sickly looking forward to the health problems of the country's president. You know, when you have these results of work and you have this kind of development budget, even a higher power can't help these boycotters get to power. Dear Minister, I wish you successful work in 2020. The SNS parliamentary group with great satisfaction will vote for the adoption of the 2020 draft budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64000	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64001	Dear Ministers, given today's budget debate and the next days that will be here, and also given the current time of the SPS parliamentary group, I would just like to point out a few things that are, I find very important at this point to say. So, I'm not going to talk about those things where the budget showed its validity and its success, where it showed balance in plans, which planned its spending in the next period, I'm not going to talk about those successful sides where a large part of the budget is focused on positive processes, infrastructure investments that absolutely open Serbia and give one of its very open, modern, high-quality, promising business picture and very interesting for all citizens both Serbia and abroad. I will not talk about those valid sides that relate to salary increases, pension increases, the importance of adopting a Swiss model as a special system that will be able to plan a pension flow in the coming period, etc. What I want to point out is that in any case, it must be observed and seen at this time that Serbia in 2019 is far from what it was in 2012. However anyone wants to assess whether or not it has failed, there is a big difference, Serbia is no longer on its knees and is simply in a position to have that perspective budget. It is very important, in the system which is managed in the next period, I think, two things to bear in mind, it is the development of social policy and social protection, and given two major problems, which, when it comes to the population, appear in us. One is the restoration of the population, the problem of population policy, which needs to be addressed in the next period, I think is much more courageous. The first results appeared, the measures gave, but I think it is something that provides for the next years, for tens of years the survival of the Serbian people and on the other hand, all that can be considered migration and population movements. We got a double problem here. One that is absolutely present to us, which refers to the movement of the population and the eviction, the departure, and we, on the basis of mortality and emigration, can also conclude, unfortunately, that every year we lose two cities. I think in finance these two things must be absolutely for the sake of the people's sustainability, to have their priorities. What we need to react more courageously to the protection of sensitive categories of the population, sick, elderly children, women, etc. domestic violence, violence, etc. I believe that the role of the social work centre that must be important is, above all, the Ministry of Labour, but certainly in the government system, it must be suggested, developed, etc. They must in future be more financially encouraged, professionally restored, with a new methodology that will provide work in their operation, based on prevention rather than treatment of consequences. Finally, what I think is important in the development of every modern society is the place and position of culture. I advocate that in future budgets culture indeed, and there is room for it, Serbia becomes a perspective, a financially stable country, at least that 1% for culture must be. First, we have capacities as a state, we have professional people in the field of culture, start with care and affirmation of the protection of fluids and all of those historical things that identify us as a people, we can restore and show, it's a tourist part that then develops, and secondly, and modern creation supports. From two points of view, it's important. First, we teach young generations of culture, not primitive and some undeveloped forms of work, entertainment, etc., because culture actually develops elitism, develops the interest of young people in new openings. In that sense, I expected there to be room in the draft budget for the creation, that is, the development and final construction of the Belgrade opera that has been discussed for decades. This is something that is otherwise very recognizable and present in this government and in President Vukic's policy, which is to create some things and products that will remain behind us and this generation, as a permanent feature of the rule and the permanent marking of a period in which the government has demonstrated its full creative capacity. Then, I think it should also be developed to restore the library, for example. at Kosančić's wedding, because it will show the spirit of Serbia's revivability and courage, to create instead of this National Library a new cultural centre that will absolutely give new contents and be something that reminds everything that has been historically done to the Serbian people. This also includes the development of cultural homes in small towns and villages or the opening of libraries, as they contribute precisely to making these villages and small towns functionally, in quality living and that young people from large megalopolis and cities return to villages. This will cross-border Serbia, new roads, with new facilities in small cities living on multiple points, not just on one, two or three, in large city centres. I think those can be the goals of the future budget in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64002	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64003	Dear Members, thank you very much. I'd just go back to your comment that you said about investing in culture. I talked about it yesterday. We are already at 1% of the investment budget in culture. So if you look at the total culture budget for 2020, from 13.286 billion and the total budget of 1334 billion, we are now at 0.99% of the budgets that are defined for investment in culture, to 1%, so. What's especially important to me is this. Unlike previous authorities closing museums and closing theatres, we have opened the National Museum of Contemporary Art in the last two years. We also opened a renovated theatre "Bora Stankovic" in Vranj. With that and such a policy, we will continue in the future. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. ) You also have an additional 2.4 billion dinar in Article 3 of the basic budget for investment in infrastructure, which is related to culture. It's a large number of theatres and cultural institutions that need to be reconstructed and arranged. On the other hand, you have 14.1 billion dinars of investment in the construction of a concert hall, or opera, whatever, in the city of Belgrade. So it's all defined in the budget. I hope that the Ministry of Culture will finish the projects that are necessary in the right way, in order to build these institutions. What is most important to me, when you look at the increase in wages in the public sector, from November 1st, wages that are between 8% and 15% higher in the public sector, 10% of wages go to cultural employees. The majority of the public administration received an 8% increase. So, and here we show how much we care about culture going forward and I totally agree with you that this is a very important area that needs to be given even greater importance in the years to come. Of course, with the completion of the consolidation of public finances, it opens up space for you to invest even more in an area like culture. I think we've just shown our commitment to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64004	Right on the line, Mirjana Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64005	Thank you. In any case, the most important thing is to understand that Serbia is going through very large positive steps and that all these things that provide safety, quality of life, but also education, and we are developing this through the system of education, must be synergy and with this cultural quality, because Serbia belongs to Europe, and more than that, to the world. That is why it encourages exactly one such intention, thank you for this and such plan, and I think that Serbia should endure in future times and future budgets. Of course, and this time I thank the chairman, Mr. Arsic, for the given word. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64006	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64007	We Serbian radicals agree that the funds allocated to culture should be strengthened and we would support that there is a much greater amount. It could go up to 1.5 budgets. However, I am not sure that these funds are being used rationally. As Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, I had the most trouble with then-Court Minister Nada Popovic Perisic, who purposely financed the worst anti-Serbian films, including the movie "Turkey", Goran Markovic. The minister now says he will invest a lot in infrastructure facilities. I'm not sure there's enough money to be invested in the Philharmonic Building and new operas. The National Theatre in Belgrade needs Belgrade, and much of Serbia, for an opera as a classical art type, even some say anachronic, satisfies fully. What's the order of the ministry that they're neglecting? Publishing work. The Dosmanians allowed the destruction of education, Nolit, Rad, Bigz, many other publishing houses. And then we got the publishing to the end of the commercialization. The world's best-sellers are most translated, and that's often five-paradic literature. "Provelation" and "Serbian Literature Cooperative" - I didn't see you envisioned a grant for the "Serbian Literature Association"? He may be somewhere, but he's hidden. "Prosveda" and "Serbian Literature Cooperative" 20 years ago and change began to publish an edition of "Old Serbian Literature" in 24 books. They haven't been able to get it out yet. And "Old Serbian Literature" might fit into 200 books. It should include "Dubrovnik's Old Literature". The Croats have adopted it for us, although it is all in Serbian and it is written primarily on Serbian history. The Dubrovnikers didn't know about the Croats until they came to own the Lasts, that's when they first met the Chakavians. So, you need to invest in fundamental works from our literature. That's what the textbooks and the official messenger used to do. "The official messenger" continued and was very successful, and "the school of textbooks" ran out of huge amounts of money, which he earned by selling textbooks. Now that money has been taken away by foreigners, Croats, Germans and others, and spoils our youth through bad textbooks. That's what you should do, to see with the Ministry of Education that all basic and secondary school textbook editions are back in the hands of the state or national councils for national minorities, to then concentrate the funds, and then to sell textbooks, which would be much cheaper, to finance these things. And you, too, to invest your money. We've had enough of these crazy movies. We've turned out to be a nation of crazy people. We watch movies and all these crazy guys show up and defil, murder, grotesque stuff, etc. The people are thirsty films on the historical theme and these films and TV shows are best spent in the people. So, that should be forced. The people need to teach the glorious past in order to have an even greater future. Don't save money on that stuff. But you have to control strictly how they spend, so they don't spend on anti-Serb activities. So, what you need, you need a lot of theaters to fix, they're abandoned, they're without basic means to work, but you need to force as many domestic performances in the theater as possible. The state can touch the performance of local authors, and for these countries, imports, which are now on the bestseller lists, live on ticket sales, so whoever likes to choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64008	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64009	Thank you. What's very important to me, to look back at the exposure we just heard, as you know, is shooting a film about Jasenovac. This is just one of the films financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At some point, there was even a saying that we didn't have any money for that kind of thing, so we're gonna find some sponsors. No, what President Vukic has decided is that the government of the Republic of Serbia fully stands behind the film. The recording is almost up to, if I'm not mistaken, the first quarter of next year and is just talking about a very important event in the history of the Serbian people, a sad but important one, and that, Mr. Seselj, is a strategy we will not give up on. We're going to be making more and more movies, we've got money, right about those events that are important to the history of the Serbian people. On investments in culture, I will come to you during the day with concrete data on how much is now invested, how much has been invested before in various events or financing and theatres, performances and ultimately all the other things you've talked about. I would remind you, and this is what I was talking about yesterday, about the concrete projects we're going to be doing in 2020 regarding the area of culture. So in 2021, the city of Novi Sad is the European Capital of Culture, there is a whole series of events and activities and institutions that will be reconstructed and arranged to make the city of Novi Sad shine in real glory for 2021. We will bring to an end the work on the reconstruction of the National Theatre in Subotica, on construction, I have already said, and concert halls in Belgrade, the Creative Centre "Ložionica" in Belgrade, the alternative scenes of the National Theatre, will be reconstructed by the House of the Army, and this space will be refurbished for the Cultural Centre in Pirote. Then, the Creative Embassy in London, the establishment of the legions of Vladimir Veličković, the opening of a gallery at Kosančić's wedding, the preparation for the construction of the Faculty of Music Arts, which will finally solve the decades-old problem of the temporary and unconditional accommodation of young musicians, reconstruction and construction of museums in Jagodina, the archaeological site of Belo Hill in Vinca, etc., a whole series of projects that should improve our cultural infrastructure, in order to properly present not only to those who come to our country, but also to our children and citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64010	The People's MP Vojislav Seselj has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64011	Minister, if Novi Sad is next year's capital of culture, why did you single out 51 million for the Matica of Serbia, just like last year? I suppose Matica is the Serbian centre of Serbian culture in general, not just Novosadska? How can this be the capital of culture without the Mother of Serbia, without its jubilee editions, issue of monographs, collected works of great writers? You know what? I was private collecting money from The Hague to publish militia Stojadinović, the Serbian, Sima Milutinovic, Sarajevo, and whose other parts were they? I was the initiator and ordered the radicals who were in power to look for sponsors, and Jase Tomic. I was an initiator from 2,000 kilometers away. Now let's get the smart government or the smart ministry doing that thing. Secondly, here, Peter Hanke, a writer who was persecuted in world terms, because he was a proven Serbian friend, became a Nobel. Is the initiative on its way to the press? Minister, hey. Verice, let the minister answer my questions. Don't add it. What I'm saying is complete and complex. There's still no initiative to announce Peter Hanke's collected works. Who is more invited than his homeland to publish those sumptuous works first after he received the Nobel Prize? He hasn't published the pieces yet? What are you waiting for? You don't have any translators for German? There's a lot of them, there's quality ones. Many works have already been translated, they need to be taken down and printed in a set. So there's a lot of ideas, but let's not forget, it's not Exit culture. All the serious philosophers in the world, the aesthetics of Exit consider subculture or subculture. No one will culturally describe himself going to Exit, and he can become a junkie. It's a waste of money, to me, but well, I'm not up for a ban. Let it be reflected, but with much less state donations. But let's invest in a lasting value, and that lasting value is, first of all, a book. The book stays, and everything else is fleeting. There goes the show in the wind if it isn't recorded, the opera goes into the wind, the voice of opera singers forgets, and the book stays. Well, you're here as the Ministry of Culture has failed to pay any attention to that. To free the "Teacher's Office" to do these things, to have additional revenue from both the budget and the profit for the textbooks and to continue to do so "The Official Messenger". "Serbian literary cooperative," I stress, she is again an institution like this. If anyone gives her anything, give it to her. There's no permanent income from the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64012	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64013	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in this principle section, I will talk about the money allocated in the 2020 budget to the security sector, i.e. public security and defence sector, which covers two ministries, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and, of course, the BIA. Since this is a principle debate, I will really speak in the broadest frameworks, therefore, I will present the basic figures, and of course we will later and in the debate and in particular speak in detail, especially in what and in the other ministry in progress is the realisation of real capital investments and projects that are years old and that are only partially presented in this budget, so they can cause some confusion in people, because they are being monitored, so only one annual investment is seen in this budget. It is our agreement within the SNS parliamentary group that, in fact, the board presidents are talking about an area whose presidents they are, so I, as the multiannual chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, am talking about this sector right now. But don't mind, in your presentation, it won't be too long, I want to talk about some plans, about plans for young people in Serbia, not because it only touches me personally, I think that the birth and concern of young people, what our plan for the future, are equally important. For me personally, most important in the coming years. But let's go back to the budget now, to these figures. They say politics, in fact, is just what you make a real money out of and what you finance. We politicians, no matter what party we belong to, know how nice and acceptable we talk, but when you set a certain amount of money in the budget for certain programming activities, well, that's actually your policy. This is how we should read all our budgets over the past few years, because then we showed that what we are saying daily in front of the political party that we belong to in front of the government and, of course, that Alexander Vukic and the President of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely in line with what is planned in our budgets, and that is to say, the rebalancing accounts show that all our plans do not differ from the realisation later. This is the most important thing for serious countries, for countries that want to move in serious international flows and become someone who is a trust partner, not someone who plays with their finances. So, the implementation of serious reforms in previous years that have been politically possible for us, has just shown that the risk that Alexander Vukic took as a political party, of course, with coalition partners, has been paid off and the fruits of our plans and ideas are now coming. So, in the Defense Sector, I'm going to have to support myself a little bit with papers, 92.4 billion dinars, and in particular, that's about 10% less than was planned for the previous budget, but half of that amount, 43.3 billion is employee expenditure. This time, indeed, we also saw it in the previous year, and in the next year, we were thinking about the standard of people who were at the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, almost half of that amount leaving for staff expenditures. When it comes to the MAP, 91.32 billion dinars, which is about 2.4% more than in the previous budget, and there is also salary, employee costs, something we have been thinking about and what we have significantly raised compared to the previous years. As far as defence is concerned, the draft budget has set out 92.4 billion dinars, and most of the amount is employee expenditure, as I said. If we were to divide that into percentages, then you would see that 46%, I said something about half, but 46% of total funds goes to staff and grant expenditures to the SOVO Fund, then about 40% of total funds, which is about 37 billion dinars going into operation by the Ministry of the Army and the Serbian Army, and that's the programme activity, and hence the funding of activities, related to the implementation of defence planning documents, this is what we expect in the next year, the realisation of prescribed jobs and tasks, to create conditions for the preservation and protection of defence interests, the realisation of planned activities of international military co-operation and the management of material resources, and slightly less than half of these funds, of these 40% is destined for capital expenditure, but that is, above all, for machines and equipment. So 10% of the funds are planned under software activity and modernisation and remonting, which is a little less than 10 billion dinars, and from there is financed by the acquisition of new funds, modernisation and refurbishing of existing funds, their maintenance, refurbished for machines and equipment. That is, therefore, the framework in which we move when it comes to the Ministry of Defense. I would say it again, it's about 10% less than it was last year, the previous budget envisioned, and don't forget that we made a major shift in the modernisation and equipment of the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Defence in the previous year. So, actually, these significant assets don't mean that much less is invested. Simplely, in previous years, we have had large investments, many things concerning aircraft, when they are related neither to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, they have already arrived and delivered to the users, one and the other to the ministry, and the rest continues through the following projects. Here, little about the Ministry of Interior, 91.32 billion dinars, in recent years, the MUP has a development budget, except for the funds necessary for the smooth functioning of all departments of the Ministry, these are salaries, other personal incomes for employees, some regular running costs, invested a lot in modernising equipment and facilities. In recent years it has been purchased through the necessary equipment, indeed, not only about clothes, clothing, equipment for the members of the MUP, but also about the modernisation of information systems in the MUP, the modernisation of the complete rolling stock, the reconstruction and adaptation of the facilities, and some construction of the facilities in the MUP. Purchase of aircraft, helicopters and fire trucks. In addition to investment, therefore, in these capital projects, the Ministry invests in the purchase and restoration of uniforms, i.e. clothing and footwear for police officers, professional training, training of police officers, expanding information systems. The conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia planned to purchase helicopters for the Ministry of Defence, which I already spoke about, and according to this basis, three new helicopters were delivered to the MUP in 2019, another one is expected to be delivered in 2020. I just want to mention seven new capital projects when it comes to the MUP, and that's where I'm gonna end up with the exhibitions. So seven new capital projects have been approved under this planned budget, which is about a billion dinars in 2020. This implies the procurement of special means, technical and protective equipment for the Police Directorate, then raising operational capacities, special and special units of the MUP, construction, reconstruction and adaptation of police department facilities, protection and rescue of citizens, goods, property and environment from emergency events, the modernisation of the Police Directorate’s rolling stock and the construction and adaptation of emergency facilities in the period from 2020 to 2022. Building a Information Security Centre, something that starts, which we'll be seriously dealing with in the coming years. In short, in this 2020, the MUP will implement a total of 26 capital projects, 19 old and seven new ones, and it significantly improves the conditions both for work and for modernising and modernising the MUP. So it was a short-term principled story of money that was set aside for the security sector in Serbia. Something that is not specifically related to this budget, but I think it is very important that citizens, by following colleagues who are seriously dealing with the analysis of this budget realize that not only something that writes specifically in this budget, are seen here as rooting for our future plans. We are talking about young people, how important they are for Serbia, how much this hard effort we are making to raise Serbia and further develop our society in Serbia, in the first place as a civil society, is only because of one thing, because of the young generations we leave this to. Before I speak of young generations, we need to talk about Natalie. That's what we've been talking about for the past few years, but more money needs to be invested than it's ever been before. When we talk about investing in birth, except for one general atmosphere in society, and I think there's a commitment for us politicians to talk a lot more about the importance of Natalie. I know that women in Serbia love and love, children are something that in Serbia, in our society, has a special position, so it should be, and we are always ready to give up everything, precisely because of our children and descendants. So investment in birth must be much more investment, and to support the first child, because it has proved that the birth decision of the first child is crucial and needs the most support, there it needs. So, that sum of the current 100,000 dinars, I think we can absolutely raise it to more. That's what we need to talk about, we need to push, and I think that if our male colleagues don't think about it much, we women in politics need to be louder and ask for more money to support and to give birth. It's not just about funding the first child, the second, or third in the family, there's a lot of tracking services that we have to work on. We ask for women to be modern, to be involved in politics, to be educated, to work, to be in their career, maximumly devoted, we need support, we need kindergarten, we need school, we need help in the house if you want us to cover everything we're asked to give maximum as citizens of this society. Another story about young people, a special scholarship programme for young people, has proved that the Youth Fund is not what can keep young people in Serbia, and that is why we need to make a much more flexible programme. The amount of 250 to 500m euros is some sum that we need to think about when we talk about supporting young people, depending on the reform we want and the degree of reform we want to implement. Apartments for young couples, that's something to talk about. When President Vukic first spoke recently about how serious this investment caused great attention, great attention, first of all, to young people. We're thinking in the Draft of some of our plans to make about 30,000 apartments. We are thinking that these are apartments of an average size of 60 square meters, where young couples would invest about 400 euros per square second, the rest would be touched by the state. But don't forget, as I said earlier, except for the apartments for young couples, other than supporting young talent, there is also a need for accompanying facilities, so kindergartens, schools, health homes, and here we are thinking about some 900m-euro sum. Encouragement of entrepreneurship for young people, education of young people for digital startup companies, is something that I guess the largest number of people in Serbia don't understand. I, when I'm 45 years old and with a son who's 20 years old, am aware that I can't follow him in some streams when he's planning his future. When young people, especially those born since 2000, think about their future, digital startup companies are their daily lives. The development of clusters from all areas of entrepreneurship for young people up to 40 years and special programmes through a specialised institution, such as today's Race or the Office for IT, so there would also have to be a certain amount set aside to show young people that there is no room for them in Serbia, but we seriously count on them to be someone who draws strong Serbia forward. The young are someone with whom Serbia is obliged to open dialogue, but serious dialogue, and not us parents, we ask what is new, letchical, and we do not listen to their answer, what is really new in their lives and what are their plans. In doing so, dialogue with young people must cover the representation of all parts of our country. Although we are constantly talking about decentralisation, I think that young people in remote parts of Serbia, if it isn't Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, that we are not hearing young people, and we will do much more in the coming period. What we as SNS people can do and do daily on the ground, first of all with our membership, with a lot of young people in SNS talking, we're looking for their plans for the future, because I said, out of my 45, I can hardly understand the future of young people and their plans if I don't talk to them about it. Children should be asked what plans they need, family-based programmes to stay in Serbia, to teach their children to stay in Serbia tomorrow, to see what they want to be their business, what they need to start a small business. And what is very important for Serbia, we need to get their peers back to Serbia, we need to ask people who have left Serbia to contact people who are still in Serbia, who are thinking about going to stop them, telling them that somewhere there is not great, are wages better, but it is not just a salary, life is a country, friends, family, your street and home. The Serbian Progressive Party will do much to ensure that truly the Serbian dream is not something Vucic said on the 11th birthday of the SNS, this budget is the beginning of a Serbian dream reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64014	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64015	Thank you. First of all, I would like to draw attention to one of the most significant allocations within the next 2020 budget, and that is certainly a detachment for travel infrastructure, because in order to continue to develop, to implement all the reforms that we have started, to strengthen economically, to reduce unemployment even further, and at this point it is less than 10%, to increase wages and pensions, to improve the quality of life of all of us, we need to develop road infrastructure, because this kind of integration is crucial for our country's economic growth. Until just a few years ago in this area, we've lag behind a lot of countries in our environment. However, for the past few years, we have succeeded, more specifically since 2014, to build 320km of road infrastructure and thus become a leader in the region in this area. In this budget, the individual maximum amount is defined for financing the Hungarian-Serbian railway, i.e. The railways Belgrade – Stara Pazova and Novi Sad – border with Hungary. Also planned was the construction of the Moravia Corridor that would connect Pojate and Preljina by 2022 and would naturally connect Corridor 10 and 11. These are good examples of connecting the Western Balkans with the EU, as well as people and services. However, I would also single out the detachments for Ruma – Šabac – Loznica and for the construction of a section of the Preljin – Požega highway, because from 19 December of this year we will be able to travel from Surcin to Cačka highway. The completion of Corridor 11 will meet the decades-long expectations of Western Serbian citizens. In addition to the projects I have already mentioned, the realisation of the Novi Belgrade highway section -- Surcin -- will also begin within the Belgrade bypass, as a bridge over Sava near Ostružnica. It is not necessary to ignore the construction and restoration of roads in small underdeveloped municipalities, rural roads, too, because I think we have done a lot on this plan, but that we have a lot of work to do in the coming years, because Serbia is developing in a positive direction and is approaching developed Western countries, and that is the type of society we want to belong to and who we should strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64016	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64017	Thank you, Your Honor. The draft budget for 2020 is ahead of us. In addition to being a developmental one, I would take the opportunity and that freedom to say that the historical budget is like a proposal for 2020. As a member of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, I am obliged to defend this historic budget from some false statements, because that is all it needs right now, and the people will soon understand what the proposal for the 2020 budget is. We listened as members of the Financial Committee to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. I'll start with the negative ones. The opinion of the Fiscal Council is that the strategic disadvantage is that we have increased wages and pensions, because our economies are going to fall, and we need a slightly larger economic growth in 2020. The second negative opinion of the Fiscal Council is who will be in charge, in fact the question of Minister Sinishi Malom is who will be in charge of capital investments and why is it that in the 2020 draft budget, the increase in costs of fines and penals? Of course we've raised salaries and pensions because we're doing it from surpluses and we've had a surplus for the third year in a row. We're gonna make a raise on salary and pensions because we can do it. We're not doing it from expensive loans, we're doing it from the money we really have. Who will be in charge of investment in municipal infrastructure and capital investment at all? We already know that a Commission has been formed with the government, and the president will be prime minister. What's going to happen for the fines and the pens? Penalties and penalties, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, have been inherited by court disputes, in fact acquired long ago in 2007 and 2008. So, the inherited expenses we have to pay back as a society. What other grades did we get from the Fiscal Council? I've responded to these negatives, and now I'm going with the positive one. A well-defined deficit – 0.3%. It's the fiscal council's opinion. This is all the word of the Fiscal Council because we were most often able to hear negative comments from the Fiscal Council in the media. Rarely, the media has given a positive opinion to the Fiscal Council. So there's a well-defined deficit of 0.3%. It will lead to a public debt downturn to reach below 45%. The budget is well planned and will be created in 2020, and the opinion of the Fiscal Council is that the surplus from the budget... That is, their advice is to invest in sewage, wastewater treatment. So, communal infrastructure. As I said at first, the most important law is in front of us. I used that freedom to call it a historic bill because Minister Sinisha Mali himself said this was a very well-planned budget, a conservatively planned budget, that would go in two directions. I must again point out, although my colleagues have talked about it, that this is the primary budget that will increase the standard of living, as we have stated by increasing wages, pensions are percentageally but not affecting, as they said, the increase in wages and pensions will affect GDP. Not true, we will be around 28% to 9.6% within the EU legal framework. Mostly in the media, that's the way it is. So, we've given one-time help to the pensioners, and what are we going to invest... In fact, we're thinking all the time, respected and respected ministers, of citizens. Not only are we increasing their standard of living, we will be investing in capital, investment to help our citizens. By investing further and further, we have seen in the draft budget that you have allocated more money for education, for health care and thus we will have not only better quality health and education, and this also affects economic growth, but also have better health infrastructure, education. We will reconstruct schools, build new schools, so investment in capital investments will thus improve the standard of our citizens, not just the increase in wages and pensions. As my colleagues said, we also increased the minimum labour price. The opinion of the negative fiscal council is why we haven't reduced from 63% to 60% for taxes and wages in the private sector. We have reduced to 61%, which I hope in 2020 will be 60% since I come from the private sector and always think about when any law comes on the agenda, including this draft budget, which is good for private people. So in 2020, I expect a little bit lower, for taxes and wages, and in this way we will help, of course, the private sector to pay their wages equally to the public, but the pay average, as we have pointed out, will be in the country of Serbia in December, 500 euros, as you and Aleksandar Vukic announced. So, we're going to speed up as I said business growth through public investment, reduce unemployment to 10.3% and third year in a row as we have a surplus in the budget, public debt is now 51% of GDP. As I have stated, GDP pay is 9.5%. All that I have stated is, as I have said and will point out, in favour of our citizens, in favour of making our Serbia even more successful. Of course I'll vote for this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64018	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word is Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64019	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the 2020 budget marks the completion of the fiscal consolidation process and the continuation of the country's accelerated economic development. Thanks to the difficult reforms, launched in 2014, when the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, we can talk today about this budget for 2020. This budget means the beginning of the implementation of the National Investment Plan. The budget singled out 260 billion dinars for capital investments, i.e. 4.5% of GDP. The absolute priority is investment for transport and rail infrastructure, which is also part of the national investment plan. In the last five years, 300km of highways have been built in Serbia, and in the last year alone, 103km has been completed. It's been done a lot, but we still have a lot to do, because nothing's been built for decades. Money has been allocated for Pojate – Preljina, the Moravski Corridor, for building the Belgrade highway – Sarajevo, the Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, then for Obrenovac – Ljig, Surcin – Obrenovac, Novi Belgrade – Surcin, for the Belgrade bypass, fast traffic for Novi Sad – Ruma, for Preljina – Požega. When it comes to education, Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues to invest in education and Serbia today has the courage to become a winner in a new world where knowledge and ideas are valued more than ever. By September next year, thousands of schools will be connected to the fast internet and 10,000 digital classrooms will be equipped. It will be renovated to dozens of primary and secondary schools across the country. The Fund for Investment Work has been increased, and the money for the Science Fund has been doubled. It invests in education in order for Serbia to have an educated and qualified workforce in the future. To subsidise investors, 9.3 billion dinars have been allocated. When it comes to foreign investors, Serbia attracted 2.3 billion euros of foreign direct investment in the first seven months, up from 43% compared to the same period last year. This policy of granting subsidies to investors proved to be good and economical, as people are employed in this way, and money is returned to the budget through taxes and contributions. 295.4 billion dinars have been allocated to salaries, and they will grow in the public sector from 8 to 15% and start with November's salary. 581.2 billion dinars are scheduled for pensions. Pensions will grow by 5.4% next year, and the good situation in the budget has enabled payment of a one-time aid of 5,000 dinars to all pensioners. It should certainly be mentioned that the minimum labour price from January 1st will be increased, amounting to 30,022 dinars, the largest increase in minimum earnings ever. A good confirmation of the results so far is Serbia's progress on the World Bank's "Duing Business" list for four seats and now holds 44th position among 190 ranked countries. All this tells us that this budget is developmental and that Serbia is committed to further implementing economic reforms, increasing GDP growth rates and improving citizens' living standards. The stability of public finances, economic growth and development are key to further economic progress. The government's budget shows that citizens' interests were managed during its development, as in the SNS, President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, citizens are always first and foremost focused on all the activities being carried out. That is why the SNS parliamentary group will support the 2020 draft budget in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64020	Thank you, colleague Tomašević Damnjanović. Now the word has Ivan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64021	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a real pleasure to talk today about the draft budget law for 2020, a proposal that is balanced, which is realistic, which illustrates Serbia's stability, which paints the way our country's development and represents a turning point in Serbia's economic policy. This is an absolute development budget. The policy implemented by the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, aims to increase living standards, raise wages, raise pensions, raise the minimum labour price. It is very important for our citizens to point out that wage increases are foreseen, that a significant investment in health, education, culture and as a better target of social protection is envisaged. What everyone will benefit from, which improves Serbia's reputation in the world, are investments, investment in capital investments next year worth 260 billion dinars. These are indeed record cuts compared to the previous period, and this will also allow GDP to grow. Serbia continues to walk on the path it has been going over the past seven years. So, economic growth is growing, and public debt is growing. I would especially highlight increased investment in infrastructure. In 2019 we have the end of Corridor 10, we have the end of significant shares on Corridor 11. Soon a share of the Obrenovac-Surcin highway will be completed and it is invaluable how important it is for the citizens. The time of the journey is shortening. The construction of the highway includes the opening of industrial zones. So, new investments, new factories, new jobs. Here, we in Ub truly express great satisfaction with getting on the highway and look forward to further building the highway "Milos Veliki", investing in infrastructure, in better roads, in better rail infrastructure, in connecting cities in Serbia, connecting Serbia with the region, really means better quality of life, better movement and new investment and easier placement of goods. I repeat that Ub citizens who are mainly engaged in agriculture, for them it is really important to get on the highway and we look forward to completing this section by Surcin in December of this year. Simply because of the placement of its goods, it will be easier to reach the quantum market. This means that time is shortened, costs are reduced, etc. In previous years, we have strengthened the positions of various institutions and positions that allow better conditions and services for our citizens. Now that they're strengthened, we're thinking about modernizing them and improving them. In the development budget, we see a proposal to implement e-social projects, which will allow a much more efficient social protection system. In the budget we also see a proposal for modernising the education system through projects related to schools, through digital classrooms, through linking schools to the Internet. I would particularly highlight significant investments for young people, as my colleagues have already talked about, especially I am pleased that in the next 10 billion-euro investment cycle for young people, two billion euros will be allocated. The plan is to invest around 500m euros in building 50,000 apartments for young couples. That's what needs to strengthen our country, that's the future of our country. The priorities of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia remain digitisation, as without it there is no faster sustainable economic development and greater competitiveness, and there is neither the retention of youth in the country nor the return of those outside Serbia. After a few years of leading a responsible policy and not so popular measures, simply after tightening the belt we have a turn today, we go into investment, we go into projects. Today, like the previous days and months, those who have no programme, have no programme, have no plan, run a healthy policy, will not say anything constructive on this draft budget law. We do not expect them to praise what interests the citizens, because members of the Alliance for Serbia, we are witnesses, are simply aggressive, rude, inappropriate, promoting violence, and not interested in budgets. They'd probably be interested if they were in the position we're in today, but they'd probably have a different approach. For citizens of Serbia, who want decent and modern Serbia, the policy they led is absolutely the past. For example, when it comes to roads, at times when they worked, we had a contract signing, not prepared projects, and no expropriation and state was done, or the citizens of Serbia were paying big penals for it. After that, such a system of action was not easy to restore Serbia's reputation in the world, but with its work, President Aleksandar Vukic succeeded. Serbia is respected in the world today, Serbia is a modern country, Serbia is a desirable destination for investment and will be an increasingly desirable place for life. Today we have signed contracts with both Chinese, Russian and Azerbaijani companies and other companies. So our citizens' money will be focused on investment, on the realisation of these projects, not on foames. What we are doing and what will be done will be built in the next period in Serbia will benefit all citizens equally, and those who do not meet their obligation in parliament, who are not here, as a colleague said today, but 325 days of boycotting work, but they will neatly raise their wages that are regular, which are growing from a certain period of time to a period of time and will be driven along these roads and will use railways etc. But, never mind, SNS policy is to preserve peace and stability, political independence and independence, certainly further economic progress, as I said about young people. We, so proud of what we have done in the past, are proud of the future. In voting day, the SNS will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64022	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has Veroljub Matic. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64023	Thank you, Chairman. The budget mirrored the work of a government and, if the budget is with surplus, of course, that the government with competent ministries, public enterprises, of course there is the president of the state, they are all one team that works well and the budget leads to surpluses. Including some earlier duties, we, counting this year's budget, would have surpluses, of course, to know we're dealing with it and to use it the right way. I've always been specific, and this time I'm going to be specific, and I'm going to suggest certain things that have been said here a little bit, which is that the budget can also be directed. I want to say something, nothing new, but just remind me. Why the guidance? For example, Belgrade's capital, I don't think it should be too pressured by manufacturing factories and plants. The ring around Belgrade, a ring about 100km away from the big capital, is the best distance from large consumers to have production plants there. Why does it matter? The important thing is, the capital is free of the pressure of immigration, pollution and everything else that can affect one good functioning of the capital, and therefore the surrounding capital is developing, the people remain there and I think it's better for everyone, and of course it's best for Serbia. This is an example. We have a good example in the immediate vicinity, these are Vienna and Ljubljana, which do very well and I think this example can serve us as a good example. As far as the roads are concerned, as far as my municipality Kocelev is concerned, I am talking primarily now about highways, the "Milos Veliki" road and two highways, of course, the highway is also "Milos Veli", two highways to be built, this is the Ruma-Shabac road and the road to Valjev. Koceljeva is located some 30km from three highways. The highway doesn't have to go into every place. The highway should have good access traffic, which are not very far from the highway and then it is a good destination for development and investment. Koceljeva municipality is in such a position. Except for the reconstruction of the road towards Milos the Great, everything else is good roads, so it is simply an invitation for investors to invest in the municipality of Koceljev. Something I want to say, which is very important for agriculture, has started to invest seriously in the automation of anti-urban protection in agriculture last year. This automation proved to be very good, and I am very glad that in this year it was predicted that another part of Serbia would be automated in anti-urban protection, so we will have one large territory or more territory than we had in terms of effective anti-urban protection. This does not mean that anti-urban protection will be the one that will fully protect us, but it will be much better than it has ever been. I think that investment will pay off, and I suggest we continue in the same direction over the next few years. So 2.1 billion is invested in the rural area. I think that's what it is, I'm not gonna say the papers, and so far it's been, maybe not in that amount. I think the leadership of this country has realized that there is still a need to invest more in these rural areas for reasons, there are four infrastructures that are necessary. These are: road, electricity, water and telecommunications. If we do this in the rural area and if it's accessible to everyone who lives in the rural area, I think these people will work well, stay and survive in their territory, and we'll have both survival and survival, we won't have empty territories. Our peasant knows how to work well. We don't need to help him too much in other parts in terms of quality work, but in this part of the infrastructure, I think we should help him maximum, and as far as the republican budget is concerned and as far as municipal, or urban budgets are concerned. Another little suggestion, and that's a fiscal deficit. There are municipalities and cities that have a quality budget, I am not talking about absolute amounts, and there is a need for this fiscal deficit to increase in some years compared to the prescribed fiscal deficit, as the municipality of Kocelev referred the request to the ministry. There is no reason why the fiscal deficit should not be allowed, for the reasons that a surplus has been shown in the last 15 years in the accounts. No debts, no loans, and anything to invest would be invested in the development component and infrastructure. So, I expect the ministry will respond positively to Koceljev municipality's request. Relatively small budgets, they are best kept from a large number of small donations, no matter how much it looks like at this point, small donations always, are easier defined by small donations, but a large number of small donations are something dangerous for a small budget, especially in small municipalities that have small budgets. What is important for every man, including the state, and even for handling this country, is that it could work well, have a good wallet and be a good host with that wallet. The budget is one wallet. If we have a full wallet and a good host, I think the perspective is guaranteed, which is about our state leadership and this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64024	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget for a number of reasons, and each of them is individually enough not to support this bill. First, I think that the president of the National Assembly, and the majority of parliament who decides to formulate the agenda, made a mistake that the final accounts delivered earlier in the years before had not been considered first, and only then to consider the draft budget law for 2020, because if we do not analyse how funds have been spent in the previous years, then I do not see the possibility that we can have an argument to change and propose the Budget Act for the following year. Secondly, in a thousand and change pages of this material, which represents a set of draft budget laws, there is not a single word about taxpayers, or large taxpayers. That's what I asked the finance minister a few weeks ago, I hope he answers now, who are 100 of the biggest taxpayers in Serbia, and how many months do they not settle their tax obligations or years, why are they being reprogrammed, whether they are using budget funds, and are taxpayers, etc.? Thirdly, I remind and thank Alexander Vukic, this is the first time, if I am not mistaken, since the appointment of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, I apologized in 2012, in 2014, I was not then in the Assembly, thank you for saying October 10th of this year, quote – peasant and soldier are pillars of the state. For the army we are all informed daily as it stands out, justified, and for the peasant, I would just, let me read one verse, refer to the previous regime. Please make this camera zoom. So Ljiljana Bralovic, who lives in the village of Pranjani, wrote the poem "This is not a prayer" in 2002. "This is not a prayer, this is a cry! The birds sing sorrow over this land! Yesterday in one village, the last resident died, and tomorrow he might die in another." I would, given that since 2012, it has been concluded with the budget rebalancing for 2019, that no budget in that period nor in the previous period, excluding in 2004, was in line with the Rural Development Incentives Act, Article 4, which provides for incentives in agriculture, i.e. subsidies in agriculture, at least 5% of the budget. Whether the draft budget law can derivate the legal rules that were passed before this legislation, as is the case with the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, because in this period, this regime, some 80 billion dinars have been taken from farmers. I see individuals frowning, and here's what it looks like in the 2020 budget. If the base is the total tax revenue, and it is, it is 1.132 billion and 100 million. Five percent of that, which should be minimal for incentives in agriculture, is 56 billion and 605 million. I talked about it every time at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and never, nor the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, nor the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, when they attended these thematic sessions, wanted to, and they certainly know, because everyone can do that, to multiply 1.132 billion and 100 million with 5%, to get this figure, to announce how much incentives in agriculture should be given under the Agricultural Encouragement Act in agriculture and rural development. In this way, this proposal for a 2020 law has deprived farmers of the minimum amount of 16.016.247,000 or 28.3% of the corresponding amount under the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act. As much as it's worth, let me tell you. This is, please, monthly, here are the tables, 1.334.687,250 dinars or 11350.040 euros, counting the rate of seventeen and per dinar or weekly 308,004.750 dinars or 2,621,317 euros, or daily 43,880.1229 dinars or 373,448 euros... (President: Thank you, Professor. ) It's so reduced for agriculture from a minimum of 5%... (President: Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. )......................................................................................................... For 364,000 dinars, three thousand euros. It is 50% of what the state stands out for the development of co-operation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64026	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64027	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, just for the sake of public information and for the sake of course of your information, I will read only four figures that speak enough about how much attention the Government of the Republic of Serbia pays to agriculture. So in 2019, this year, the total agricultural budget is 55.15 billion together with IPARD two, next year is 58.15 billion together with IPARD two. So, for three billion dinars more. In terms of tax revenues for 2019, it is 5%, and next year it will be 5.2%. So it's absolutely not true that the budget is shrinking, but that it's increasing. On the other hand, we are meeting that number of 5% already in 2019, and in 2020 it will be even more. The other two figures I want to share with you are the following, and these are subsidies for agriculture. In 2012, 29.5 billion dinars went to agricultural subsidies. This year, 43.7 billion. I hope, for those who know how to count, that 43.7 is greater than 29.5. This is significantly greater investment for subsidies in the area of agriculture aimed at facilitating and improving the business of our farmers with the purchase of machinery, agricultural machinery and support that we provide in this regard. This is the right measure for the budget and will be even more in the years to come, but we expect even better results from the area of agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64028	Thank you, Mr. Minister. He's got a word for it, Professor. Shevarlic, straight to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64029	Thank you. I don't know where Mr. Secretary reads that data from, but I pulled the data from this material that we all got officially. So 1,132 billion and 100 million are total tax revenues planned. Five percent of that is 56 billion and 605 million, or I don't know the bill. I may not know the bill, but please prove it. The Ministry of Agriculture belongs to the proposal for a 2020 budget of 51,993,012,000 dinars, which is Division 24, with subsidies in agriculture of only 40,588,753,000 dinars. Therefore, subsidies in agriculture account for 3.59% of total tax revenues, not 5%, and that is minus 16.016.247,000 dinars, as I said. Secondly, the IPARD you're referring to, Mr. Minister, is scheduled, i.e. 3,934,000 were planned in these documents you gave us. If you have any other documents that the MPs didn't get, that's another thing. Finally, the issue remains open, and I ask the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law to answer if the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, Article 4, defines that the minimum incentives in agriculture and rural development are 5%, and Article 2 defines what incentives are in agriculture, cannot be combined with Section 24, which includes the objectively necessary costs for the functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture to be treated as an incentive for registered agricultural holdings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64030	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word is Mr. Sinisha Mali, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64031	In your time, Mr. Chevarlic, the subsidies for farmers were 29.5 billion dinars, 2012, here, I have here as the last year, probably even worse in the years that preceded that. This year, 43.7 billion dinars. Did I lie to you or didn't I lie to you? Is 29.5 billion in your time in 2012 less than 43.7 billion subsidies for farmers this year? Secondly, I didn't understand what figure you used for the total tax revenues, Mr. Chevarlic, compared to which the total budget for agriculture is measured? I think you said a thousand three hundred and a few million. (Miladin Ševarlic: 1.132,100,000 dinars. And when you divide that by 58.15... When you multiply by 5%... Well, I'm telling you, go ahead and use the digitron and tell me which number you got, I get one, you get the other, and let's see who's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64032	Thank you, Minister. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. Mr. Shevarlic wants a word, a replica. Here you go. Although, as far as I can tell, the accounts don't match, we're hardly gonna get to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64033	This was done in Excel, on the computer according to this, it's not my program that's the Office program, so I guess the Ministry uses the same programs, that these programs are licensed, that a license has been paid to me, but I'm going to announce this information on December 12th, if I'm not mistaken, or I don't know which one I did wrong, at a scientific conference of the scientific society of Serbian economists. Mr. Minister, the figure that you cited allegedly in my period, all periods are mine, I'm older than you and I'm not giving up any period, as I'm not giving up any registered agricultural land that you claimed at one of the previous sessions that all the obligations of 2017 and 2018 have been met, which is not true. I can also document it for you, and I've been saying it the next day at that session. Now I can document you with the names of my farmers who haven't received subsidies for 2018, but it doesn't matter now. So 56,605,000 is a figure that should be minimally in place and I am considering President of the SRS' proposal yesterday, which suggested that what was taken away from the pensioners be reprogrammed over the next four years. I suggest the same thing, which was taken from farmers 80,000,000 thousand to reprogramme for the next so many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64034	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word has Minister Sinisha Mali, then the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, Mr Komlenski. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64035	Thank you. Dear MPs, here is just once again for the sake of truth and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, 58.15 billion divided by 1132.1 is 5.13%. Let's just talk about numbers. I don't know what kind of excels, like this, like that. Take any calculator and calculate. No matter what promotion you want to make this way, I respect that the truth here is the most important. So together with IPARD 2 we in the budget for the following year have 5.2% of the tax revenue budget for agriculture and year by year that budget will grow, as well as subsidies for agricultural producers because we believe that farmers and agriculture are very, very important to us as a source of growth and as one of the basics of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64036	Thank you, Mr. Mali. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64037	I thank the chairman. I'd prefer that you gave me your word before Mr. Secretary to not turn out to be a plagiarizer now, but we didn't see word or excel on the board. We added to the pen and came to this being in accordance with the Constitution and the law. When everything is considered over 5%, it goes for agriculture. So, go back to your old methods, and you'll see that you're wrong after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64038	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Now the word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very interesting this discussion about... Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. I don't have double-time chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64040	Excuse me, Mr. Arsic. Professor Chevarlich, you'll have your chance. I have to give other colleagues a chance. All the replicas are to your speech. [[Miladin Ševarlic: I agree, but let's finish the replica one-on-one.]] You'll be right, you'll have the opportunity to answer. Don't be angry. But I have two minutes. Well, that's the Rules of Procedure. What do I do? I'd give you 20 minutes. Just be patient. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this discussion of subsidies in agriculture very interesting to me. Now I'm going to say why. They are now plowing around the amount allocated to agricultural producers, and we are not going to touch the discussion that this is regulated by the Agricultural Encouragement Act as to how these funds were allocated or what they were and how they were until 2012 when my esteemed colleague, the previous speaker enjoyed all the benefits of the former regime. He's not the only one. You know, at that time they were given as incentives in agriculture subsidies in agriculture, let's say one hectare of arable area, so it was some time 200 euros, so it was reduced to 150, 120 euros, etc. If a man thought it was the right policy, and most often the layman thinks so, we come up with quite different data. It is an honor to those agricultural producers who have actually used these funds in a dedicated way as the state has allocated it to them, but we have also had hoods such as Delta Company, such as Sugar Cole, such as Victoria Group, which took 20.30 euros from the country's working agricultural land, and then charged from that same country subsidies of 120,150 or 200 euros. Now we're surprised that agriculture is in such a difficult state. That's what we've been destroying for years. The goal was only one - to get raw materials in agriculture in a cheap way to trade on stock exchanges. It was nothing else. Is the wheat a stock market? Yes, it is. Corn, is it stock? Yes, it is. So the state will do so, that the individual small agricultural producer would have some kind of calculation to produce, that the product be cheap here in Serbia, the difference to the economic price to supplement the state, and then Sekerko, Miskovic and Victoria, with them trading on world markets.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64042	Thank you. I gave you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64043	I didn't ask for a replica, nor did I meet the condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64044	I have to give my word to Mr. Chevarlich now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64045	You'll give it to him when I'm done. Here, I gave him the right to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64046	Then on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64047	I signed up regularly, in accordance with the order applied for the word. I'm surprised there wasn't that much concern for agricultural producers back then? I guess everyone thought that the state was a milk cow that has subsidies in terms of expensive loans, that we were owed by the former regime, and they thought it could last forever. Well, he can't. Please don't worry so much about farmers anymore. Don't, really. As you cared about them 10 years ago, they were on the verge of extinction, to reach their processing surfaces, the tycoon enterprises I mentioned. Our villages were relaxed in that period, not now. Even then, they were empty. We can also talk about it, as many here have said, that the budget is pre-election. I can't agree with that. Or election, as some others earn. I can't agree with that. This budget is a continuation of the budget, so there is a certain order, if you look at it, even has a mathematical form, which was started in 2017 by the Budget Law. And most importantly, in our Budget Law, which nobody is and cannot dispute, which is that the income side is real, that it is feasible and that it poses no danger to the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. I would like not only to have representatives of the opposition across the way but also representatives of the former regime, to remind them of what they have been saying since 2014, 2012, 2013, what fate awaits the citizens of Serbia, as they feared them, as they accused us of all that they have done, while robbing, took from those same citizens of Serbia that they allegedly care about. Is, you know, if Serbia were the same as it was in 2010 and 2011, if the President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic were just as anemic as Boris Tadic, today Serbia would not be under so much pressure from countries in the environment, because when you are small, weak, then everyone loves you. When you become a serious state and become an economic, political, security and regional centre, it's natural to have so many opponents. I'm just sorry that among fellow MPs, especially from the former regime, we have a lot of those who support countries in an environment that I can't say by some procedures that are very friendly to the Republic of Serbia. Or at least some politicians who do not exercise power, but have the prerequisites to do so in some future period. Not to mention what kind of attacks the Republic of Serbia will be under when it starts a campaign for the President of the Republic of Croatia. But what surprises me is that in order to achieve its full function under the Constitution, the legislative, electoral and control role, there are individual state bodies that need to assist the National Assembly in its supervisory role, they are becoming increasingly involved in politics. If you look at any electronic media and printed, there will always be one topic covered by the Fiscal Council, which is that the increase in profits in the public sector is the biggest mistake of this budget and that this can be questioned by the entire reform process conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, starting in 2014. The next attack will not only be on political parties and authorities, but it will also be that government employees have huge salaries, which is not of course true and that they do nothing, which, of course, is not true, and that it is God's day service where you just need to get a job and wait for retirement. Not to get too much into the professional details of what the Fiscal Council is saying, but I ask them to refrain from some comments, because some who comment on it do not have the moral or any other right to talk about the profits they receive from the government's authorities. In order for Serbian citizens to know what the profits are, a high-level expert guide receives barely a little more than 30,000 dinars when it starts to work. A junior advisor, meaning a person with high professional training, starts working with a salary of 35 or 36,000 dinars. Then comes a gentleman who receives a salary of 214 thousand dinars to criticise what those youngsters will say, and a name, no problem, which begins their life, which should be married, who should give birth to children, who should start their families, receive 36 and 37,000 dinars. It's about the President of the Fiscal Council, Pavel Petrovic. I know he'll resent me and be angry with me, that's his problem. Well, let me tell you, it's not too controversial that he's receiving a pension of 81,300 dinars. It only increases his income to some close to 300,000 dinars. Nor is it disputed that the SANU correspondent, also financed from the Serbian budget, receives 98,476 dinars, which means that Mr Pavle Petrovic, who criticises the increase in public sector earnings, which is about three, four thousand dinars in nominal terms, receives monthly on a variety of grounds of 400,000 dinars. It's all legal, let's be clear. It's just a question – is it moral? Does such a man have the right to come out and criticise the increase in profits in the public sector, which in nominal terms is the highest of three to five thousand dinars? Then we have another problem. You know, the Fiscal Council was set up by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System in 2010, and the persons appointed to the Fiscal Council were appointed in 2011. Article 92g of the Budgetary System Act regulates ways of ending the functions of the members of the Fiscal Council. One of these points was also – the retirement of a member of the Fiscal Council ceases. The fiscal council was elected in 2011, but one point had to be deleted, which is that a member of the Fiscal Council ceases his term of retirement, meeting the conditions for retirement. Should I say what age Mr. Pavle Petrovic is? According to the information publicly available, he was born in 1947 and was elected president of the Fiscal Council for less than a year to go to retirement. Now, we also have a motive for why Mr. President of the Fiscal Council criticises Alexander Vukic, criticises the government of the Republic of Serbia, because, you know, Boris Tadic gave him 400,000 dinars of profits. So, instead of dealing with some scientific and research work, preventing young experts from getting involved in public finances, he insists on holding on, not giving up 400,000 dinars and still saying that profits in the public sector should not be increased, all because of alleged concerns about fiscal stability and whether the reforms implemented will be questioned. I would still ask the question – what fiscal assessment has the Fiscal Council given since 2014? I don't remember any of them being like that. He missed every one of them. Then I ask another question – why do we need such fiscal advice? The fiscal council to assist the MPs in the adoption of the budget law gives peoples the wrong information. So, I am ordering the President of the Fiscal Council to start dealing with his work, not press conferences, because it is not paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by 400,000 dinars, but paid by MPs to receive true and accurate information on the budget law. That's why he's getting paid. If we had listened to the Fiscal Council, today we wouldn't have stable public finances, or implemented reforms, or an unemployment rate of less than 10%, and I have to remind my colleagues that we inherited almost 27% and a public debt that was close to 70%. The fiscal council never gave us the information that the former regime pushed public debt up to 70% and that it was created, even when they lost power. For, my God, according to the fiscal council, public debt is only what the National Assembly gives consent to. They never accepted the fact that public debt was being met with all the unsettled commitments that should have been reconciled from regular incomes, and there were no regular incomes, as Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas and the team around them destroyed the entire economic and economic system of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the Fiscal Council is silent about. So let them deal with the work for which they are paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. People's MPs will also do their jobs, support this budget of the Republic of Serbia, at least in the majority, because it has continuity with all the budgets that were brought back here in the National Assembly for five years and because this is a developmental rather than pre-election or election budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64048	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The right to a replica has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, this is the text of the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. On page 124, section 24 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I read – 51.993,912.000 dinars. Did I make a mistake, or did you deliver the wrong material to the MPs? On page 131, program activity 4005 IPARD – 3.997,737,000, it entered 51,993,000,000, Mr. Minister, and do not tell me that this did not go into the total amount planned for division 24. He's doing so much public work and so much because he's wrong, or I don't know what else. But to remind you, Mr. Minister, I have here found an answer to my parliamentary question signed by Agriculture Minister Branislav Nedimovic, number 9-00-00019/2017-09 since 23 November 2017, let me read to you. The positions are years, the agriculture ministry's budget and incentives in agriculture and rural development. For 2013 the incentives in agriculture and rural development are 33,243,033,000, which is 4.37% of the corresponding, for 2015 23,540.000,000 or 3,08%, for 2016 23,826,6200.000 or only 2.87%. I don't know if since 2004, the agrarian budget has ever been the so-called or incentives for agriculture and rural development only 2.87%. (President: Thank you. I sent this to you, Mr. Minister, I didn't find it on the Ministry of Finance's second contact, I sent it to the press mfin.gov.rs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64050	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64051	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would only ask that one who deals with agriculture and the agriculture budget also see article 6 on page 54. The budget law, and that's where I'm really going to end this topic, so you have IPARD II incentives 6,294 billion for 2021 that are paid out in 2020. I'd like you to know that you do agriculture, but if you don't know, here, I've just told you, and I'd really like to finish that topic. I see you're very insistent on your promotion and on carrying out the lies. The truth is the one I told you, two or three times I've repeated the numbers, shared them with you here in front of the cameras, might like it or not, but the 2020 agriculture budget is bigger than I read to you this year, and you read Article 6 again, and then you add those figures up a little bit better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64052	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Professor Chevarlic is entitled to a replica, but I think we need to finish this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64053	I have no intention of replicating Mr. Secretary anymore because it's obvious he's wrong. I am taking the opportunity to publicly ask the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic that since his secretary-general answered me last year that the President of the State does not have the right not to sign an order to declare the law, to use his right as president and to sign an order declaring the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget until the minimum 5% is replaced for agriculture and rural development, because that is the minimum right of farmers. From 2012 to 2018 alone, based on the 2012 census results and the results of the survey in agriculture conducted by the Republic Statistics Institute in 2018, 90,000 family agricultural holdings disappeared. This most indicates the economic and social situation of farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64054	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Dr. Vladimir Orlic picked up the phone. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64055	Well, since it's obviously not clear to some people because they don't want it to be clear, here's to clarify the point, to those who want to listen and who don't find it difficult to compare things, especially if they're easy to compare. Two thousand twenty years, so this proposal we're talking about right now, the total budget of 51,993,000,000, etc., as we said. It's the same thing in 2010, so at a time when those who know everything now, they know that we need to sign a law that we don't or don't need, in their time, great times, I have to say, 25,621,000,000, roughly, exactly twice less. Subsidy, the total amount of 2020, this proposal that we are talking about now, total of all sources 40,588.000,000 and something more. Their brilliant, also fantastic 2010, same thing, 20,153,000,000, weird or not, but twice as much again. So everything that's in their time, which is obviously still rising today, they still want it to come back to them somehow, but that seems to be not going to be like this. It's twice as good today, twice as much at least. And this budget makes it at least twice as much better when it comes to agriculture. When it comes to other sectors, there are even bigger salaries, bigger pensions, new highways, rail corridors and everything we couldn't even dream of when everything was so great in their 2009 2010 and not in 2011 and 2012, it was much better, but it was certainly worse than it was today. So what we've got today, what we've created, what we've acquired, what we've changed for theirs, I don't think anyone serious in this country's mind. Ask any man if he wants a pension bigger than ever to pay him back to that time, if he wants a salary of 500 euros on average and something more, to return to their 320. No one will. We will because today this is better than theirs, with great pleasure to vote, and whoever is invited to do so I am sure with no less pleasure and to sign the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64056	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Professor, you said you'd never answer again? You claim one thing, Minister and Mr. Orlic quite differently, and I don't see any reason why we're giving forever. [[Miladin Chevarlic: I want a replica.]] I suggest we move on with our work. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica Everyone's got double time, and I don't. [[Miladin Ševarlic: Why do I not have the right to reply?]] Professor, you have the right to a replica, simply, I gave six, seven times the right to the replica to both you and Minister, Mr. Orlic once, right to the replica, we can go indefinitely, we can get to 100 replicas, but the question is, does it make sense? Other people are waiting, colleagues are waiting to turn around. Be present, there'll probably be a chance to turn around again. (Miladin Ševarlic): Everyone has a double time, and I don't. Such is the Rules of Procedure, I did not make it, you can contact Nenadu Konstantinović, not me. Thank you for understanding. The word has Bojan Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64057	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, as my colleague Ana Karadzic has already announced in her address yesterday, the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, will support the proposed 2020 budget in the day of voting. The reason for this attitude is much, and one of the main ones is the fact that this budget ends the period of consolidation of public finances and enters the development period for the state of Serbia. This attitude towards budget planning shows that Serbia is taking a steady step towards getting out of the living mud that the Dosmanian authorities led us to Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and their sopranos until May 2012. This attitude towards budgetary policy shows that Serbia has begun to heal the wounds that the former regime has inflicted on her by robbing privatisation, mass layoffs by workers, crime, corruption, devastation of budgets and budget funds, by borrowing and bringing the state to the brink of bankruptcy and poverty. The 2020 budget is the development budget and must be recognised as being extremely well measured, as well as the budget for the previous four, five years. If, in a few words, we wanted to bring down the overall planned budget policy for 2020, we could bring it down to terms, meaning a significant increase in investment, a rise in citizens' standards, or an increase in wages and pensions. Of course, what we must never forget to mention is tax relief. When it comes to the rise of public investment, I must commend the fact that the draft budget planned more money for public investment, which clearly shows the development side of this budget, so that in 2020, 260 billion dinars are foreseen for them, which is 40 billion dinars more than this year. The most planned amount is intended for investment in infrastructure, above all for the Moravska Corridor of the Pojate – Preljina, for the construction of the Ruma – Šabac – Loznica traffic station, then for the fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma, the Preljina-Požega section, the Hungary-Serbian railway project, as well as for the reconstruction of the Nis – Dimitrovgrad railway line and a number of projects that I did not mention, and will be realised in 2020. Just what I mentioned was a lot more than the Dosmanian criminals did during their 12-year reign. Thanks to good results, both in this and several previous years, fiscal space has been created, which, with this month's increase in public sector earnings, will help all pensioners at 5,000 dinars and raise pensions from 1 January next year greatly affect the improvement of the standard of living of all citizens. When we talk about improving living standards, we must not forget a significant increase in the minimum earnings of 3,000 dinars. Looking at all this and comparing these results with those achieved by the Dossino regime a dozen years ago, 15 years ago as leftist and socialist, I am pleased that the Socialist Movement, a party that I belong to, was part of one of this socially responsible government, the authorities that put the interest of the state of Serbia and its citizens above all, the authorities that, thanks to the responsible policy that the then prime minister drew, and today President Aleksandar Vukic, managed to save Serbia from the edge of the ire pushed by the then-government. It is more than sad to see Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bojan Pajtic and all those who robbed and destroyed Serbia today, those who fired hundreds of workers daily, those who conducted the robbery privatisation, and left Serbia to tycoons and drug clans who were also the biggest investors, but also the most important financiers. When such as, as they faked alleged concerns about the state and the citizens, they called the gentlemen, she had more than a decade to show their concern for the citizens and that at least for a moment they had broken up with the thefts, that at least for a moment they remembered ordinary people, remembered their problems, their misery and their sufferings, that instead of constantly kidnapping and putting state money in their own pockets, instead of stealing from those most poor, from the sick, from the pregnant, from the maternity, from the small children, from the people with special needs, that they thought for a moment that they would help them, perhaps today they wouldn't be where they are, where they deserve to be, at a political dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64058	Thank you, Mr. Bag. The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64059	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with an associate, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us of the 2020 Budget Act. During 2019, we continued to improve the macroeconomic performance of our economy. We have also continued with a policy of economic growth and stability, because this is the policy of Serbia that we are leading and for which the entire government is headed by our President of the Republic of Serbia. All planned and adopted macroeconomic measures have been taken to strengthen and establish a growth model based on increasing investment and exports, all of which is aimed at improving our country's credit rating, as well as improving the economic position, i.e. the economic activity of our country, which will be 4% in 2020. Foreign investment inflows have been known to have been over 3.7 billion euros and thus increased Serbia's credit rating. The growth rate in 2019 is 3.5%, unemployment is approaching a single-digit number, and inflation remains low and stable. Economic growth, as in recent years, remains on the upward path. In various activities, we have an increase in GDP. For example, in construction - 14.1%), the communications sector - 8.6%, in land traffic - 8.3%, air traffic - 6.0%, tourism sector - 5.6%, etc. The budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2020 envisions a total revenue of 14.5 billion dinars, representing an increase of 1.7%. It appears that the fiscal space in 2020 will be used to increase capital investments, raise wages and pensions, as well as to tax redundancies of the economy. These measures want to increase citizens' living standards, not jeopardising the stability of public finances with a decrease in public debt growth in the public sector is projected to increase from 8% to 15%, with the average salary in Serbia being 500 euros, with a trend in growth and an increase in pensions per so-called. The Swiss formula will be 5.4%. Each ministry receives part of the projected budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, so the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs has received 139.2 billion dinars from all sources of funding, so that 127.1 billion dinars are singled out of the budget alone. In nominal terms, it is an increased budget allocation compared to 2019 of 5.8 billion. Most of the budget was planned and provided for payment of the rights of users in the area of family and child protection, i.e. 1.9 billion dinars more than in 2019. In terms of social protection, the budget is higher by around 2.6 billion compared to 2019, with the budget providing 1.8 billion for beneficiaries of social protection rights, then 420 million for foster families, 330 million for social protection institutions to increase the salaries of social protection workers and over 330 million for investments for the implantation of SO ISIS information system. One hundred fifty million is scheduled to support the requalification of our citizens. Boračko-invalid protection will receive 700m more than in 2019, and an 8% increase in salaries for ministry employees and 9% for employees of social protection institutions is foreseen for increasing employee standards. With these funds, the budget will provide better conditions for social protection users through investment investments, as well as an increase in standards of employees in social protection institutions. As for the Ministry of Health, the total budget is higher by 13.826 billion dinars or 73.38% compared to 2019. The percentage speaks for itself, the care of the state, health care and care for the health of Serbian citizens. 2.4 billion are expected to be increased for the treatment of rare diseases. Far more is invested in a prevention that is one of the essential features in the health care of our citizens. Much more funding is provided for the development of the infrastructure of health institutions, as well as for the supply of medicines and medical equipment. Generally speaking, since a surplus has already been achieved for the third year, we will have enough fiscal space to further increase living standards. That is why it is very important to increase the growth rate in the coming period, because this will mean real wage and pension growth, raising standards and overall improvement in the lives of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64060	Thank you, Dr. Granny. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. My colleague Stevanović is not present. Now the word has been made by MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64061	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, today we are discussing the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of the Serbian people outside Serbia's 2020 border. The budget shows us the way to the Serbian economy, i.e. the budget paints macroeconomic parameters in a fiscal year. At the same time, it also shows us the health of fiscal incomes and shows us what Serbia's future will look like. Uneconomically, Serbia's budget is set by courage and hope, faith and trust because we want to make a normal and orderly country. We have faith that we can be a normal economic country, like everyone else, that when you get up in the morning, you don't ask what course it is and what it's going to be tonight, that you don't think about firing, that you don't think about privatization, that you don't have to be in debt to feed your family. We want to make and we made a state where you don't have to worry about how fiscal and monetary policies look, where you don't see how the macroeconomic parameters work, and we didn't live in that time. We lived in a time of economic hopelessness for most Serbian citizens, and for quasi elite in probably the most profitable time. In that time of economic misery, an economic dream arose that led to economic change. We've been conducting these changes since 2014. It is a debt to previous generations and our obligation to preserve the state and our obligation to future generations that the state exists after us. It is the century-old generation dream of Serbian citizens, to improve the functioning of the state. This dream was not just us in politics, it was dreamed of by Serbia for decades, but of various economic promises and dreary economic realities. We today, after five years, can say that we have extended our debt to Serbia. After working, sweating, tears and trust, after listening to various criticisms of the evildoers, we owed our debt economically to Serbia. We made Serbia, when we are discussing the budget today, which does not talk about liquidity and insolvency. We don't take foreign loans to preserve macroeconomic stability. We don't sell Serbian property so we can pay salaries and pensions. Basically, the whole story of economic change in Serbia stands in two words -- security and certainty. It's in Serbia's economy today. I ask the citizens of Serbia and all the MPs what would have happened if we hadn't succeeded? What would economic life look like, what would it look like for a Serb society if we hadn't achieved these results? Would you have new hospitals, new schools, new roads? Would you have an increase in wages, pensions? Would you have a reduction, first of all, of economically poor parameters? Would you have growth employees? When I ask you what it would look like, I know you do. We've all lived together at some point. Speaking of macroeconomic parameters today, do we promise SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia something? Are we saying -- inflation will be 2% as in the EU? Are we saying there's going to be a unemployment rate below 10%? Do we promise when we say that economic growth will be 4%? No, that's all today. We do not say a being and we do not say either because macroeconomic parameters and economic policy in Serbia are recognised today. You don't have to listen to us, the IMF and the World Bank say that Serbia today, according to macroeconomic indicators, is a convincing one of the best countries in this part of Europe. Look at foreign investors. Serbia today is in charge of refinance the loan by 1.25% as never in its history. You have foreign investments, when people invest their money, they can invest wherever they want in the world, they come to Serbia. Serbia is the leader after investing per capita at the moment in Europe. If you look at the currency risk, it's 34 points above the standard, so with just 0.34 we're in debt more than we're in debt to America. It's twice the time today, Mr. Minister, for debate, but in fact the budget debate today can be very brief. We're going to continue to invest in new schools, new hospitals, new infrastructure, we're going to build because, as never, we're giving out for public investment of 260 billion dinars. We will continue to raise wages, raise pensions, reduce labour taxes, increase personal consumption, and thus lead to an increase in the growth of social gross products. We'll keep paying off the loans and we won't be in debt. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's the 2020 budget. What we did in 2019, we'll do in 2020 and we'll continue in 2021. In both the Parliament and the public of Serbia, we did one more thing, we suspended the budget debate. Can you believe it? Budget, which is the primary issue, which is a key economic and political issue, in one country, in Serbia, for the 2020 budget, you have no debate. It doesn't exist. You don't, because it's not a political issue, and economics is not. You can't change the political attitudes, economically to the delinquent and negative comments, in fact, you always have to answer, but there's no help. Anger and dissatisfaction with the personal political situation cannot be an excuse to discuss the budget. We all know that Serbia is not an ideal country, it's not an ideal economic country, it's trying, so it's working, so it's fighting. Serbia is not a highway, and we who deal with economic policy, workers who only paint banks on the side of the road, to say plastically, we did not actually inherit the caldrum. That's why every day, when we talk about Serbia's economy, it's a challenge for us. Essentially, we don't really need to do just one thing, we don't have to go back to the past time for Serbia to be miserable and poor again, talk about privatisation, about firing, talk about a thousand euros of action for free, and we need to get double inflation. I wasn't talking about macroeconomic parameters today, I wasn't talking about fiscal changes, about economic classifications, about budget principles, I wasn't talking about any more significant figures in the budget, because I have no reason to talk about it. The support of Serbian citizens, the government of the Republic of Serbia, SNS and, above all, Aleksandra Vukic speaks enough about the economic policy and budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. I, as an SNS MP, actually just support my people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64062	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Before I give my word to my colleague Mircic, I would like to inform you that according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today the National Assembly will work even after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word is Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals immediately at the beginning of this debate through the authorised representative, Dr Vojislav Seselj, said that it is good, in a way, which can be as much to control the budget in terms of surpluses and deficits. We have bad experiences not only from earlier periods, but we have one example that points to something that could be a potential danger, which is that a while ago, we were here discussing budget rebalancing, we were discussing budget rebalancing, which at that time had a surplus of 50 billion dinars. So after the government's proposal, we came to a 20 billion dinar deficit, which is kind of just the skill and ability of this government to go from surplus to deficit. It might not be strange how strange the fact that these 70 billion dinar funds are redistributed. They were redistributed by giving pensioners five thousand dinars in the name of help, and it was quite clear that it was a pre-election move that should, in some ways, cheer up not so little of the electoral body in this population category, and deafens the suggestion of us Serbian radicals that we should still take into account. Of course, everyone needs help, especially by the nature of things to this category of population who, in some ways, is constantly at risk, but had to be taken into account in categorizing and granting this aid of 5,000 dinars. It may and may be safe for those who have lower pensions, lower incomes and how significant this assistance is, and those who have a higher one is not that it does not mean to them, but it does not affect their standards so much. That's where it went on a regular hunt, and it was said five thousand so they wouldn't make any difference to me right now. Then, along the way, the decision to increase public sector salaries was approached, which we Serbian did only chronologically, to remind you, said – not bad if they had a real condition, if such economic parameters were created that there could be an increase, which means growth in the economy, which means constant growth in GDP as high as possible and increasing the reception of those working in the public sector. We are explained here that Serbia is economically stable enough, that Serbia is on those rating lists and how well it is listed and that Serbia should be a record player this year when it comes to GDP, when it comes to foreign investment. No, the truth is, there was talk of growth in the economy, but these were parameters that were in any case arguments on the part of the promoter, or the Serbian government. The fact that one who is saying anything in the sense that it should be increased, but not at this level of pay, risks causing a counterreaction in the public when it comes to the political part of the functioning and work of us who are in this Parliament. We Serbian radicals are known for what we always say, we declare what is true and what needs to be done, and not how and what echo it will be in public, especially in the next election year. This was obviously about an election proposal. Based on that election proposal is this election budget, and here's how electoral it is. Real parameters for such an increase of 8 to 15% do not exist because GDP growth in the first two quarters is about 3.5%. In the third quarter, we get information that it's over 4%, but that's relative to the quarter last year. In order to increase wages from 8% to 15%, GDP should be at levels of 5% and more than 5%. What does that mean in continuity? At least five years to record GDP growth at levels 5 and more, and we have in the past five years, gentlemen, growth or DBP at 2.9%. How do we explain that? We have growth in the economy. These are clear indicators at 3.5%. That means it could increase as much as possible, it could increase 5%, but that's what happened when it comes to pensioners. It is announced that it will happen because it needs a "Switzerland method" some to adopt, and then people think it is a methodology, they identify it with the Swiss standard. It's far from the Swiss standards, but it's a methodology that clearly says that, taking real parameters, there can be a maximum increase in pensions once a year in height, now for the next year, at 5%. It's something that's real. We all wish we weren't right, we critics, we who give clear facts. But the budget is ahead of us and the budget does not in itself foresee any big difference when it comes to GDP, when it comes to expected growth in production, or economy. This means that increasing pensions in the public sector will make an even greater difference between receiving those in the public sector and those in the private sector, i.e. in the economy. Not to mention the very relationship between the average salary that will be the average pension that will be from next year. It's been a relationship somewhere above 50%. It's always tried not to be below 60%, and now it's going to be below 50% which is inadmissible. Anyway, it's not good to make such a difference. We listen here to how revenue will be channelled mostly into education, health, investment and culture. Gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to education, it would be nice for the resolution minister to sit here, and not for him to put on torture, under the authority of the finance minister, so that he can explain education and culture to us. Minister of Finance, i.e. Last year, the Serbian government repeatedly stressed during the budget debate, and on other occasions, that Sremski Karlovci will be a university centre in the course of this year. Then the instructions are the reasons, that it should have been before, in any case a hundred years of association, and the very logic and nature of things say that the Karlovs and the spiritual and cultural centres of the Serbian people, and that the places most important in that part of Serbia for the Serbian people are Sremski Karlovci and Srbobran and historical and in any other respect. The Ministry of Culture regularly visited the Sremski Karlovci through the minister. Obviously, nothing has been done but sign some protocols that mean nothing, but a declaration of good faith. That goodwill remained right at the protocol level. We have also insisted that this logic of things be interrupted once or in a way of thinking, when it comes to culture, to force and finance a consumer culture, rather than invest more money in culture. We can see there's no meaning in this budget either. It is more important for you to give a great deal of money to "Exit" than to support writers, to support painters, to support directors, to support those who create culture. No, you support those who sell, conditionally speaking, some culture. To you, we Serbian radicals obviously need to discuss every budget law debate to draw attention to how important the Serbian Matica is. I guess we're not interested in the nature of things anymore than you are. You don't care about that, it's important to you that the New Sad is the capital of culture for young people in 2020 and 2021, and that huge funds are being given, and this project is being guided by you, gentlemen, by those who are headed by "Exit". "Exit" is usually a private company and there is no difference, there is a sign of equality between Novi Sad 2021 and "Exit", when it comes to finance. That's where you're supposed to take care of. Not someone who has a private firm, where there is a conflict of interest, who does not submit any financial report, in this case "Exit" as a private firm, has never submitted a final account, neither a financial report nor a local government, nor a province, let alone a republican, and huge funds are given. They're users of budget funds. All users have to file a report. Try to warn them, you'll see what kind of reaction that's going to cause. What's very important here is that in the area of health care, gentlemen, most of the money, finance is being invested in the facilities, in the equipment. What's that logic of thinking? The ministry is considering investing in buildings, in any case, not in any envious state, but it immediately raises doubts, so as soon as these funds are invested, someone thinks about who's going to do the construction work. You're not thinking of giving as much money as you can to perfect doctors, staff. Besides, you make such discrimination that a man cannot believe it, when it comes to the field of education and when it comes to the field of health. You are making discrimination within the profession, within one profession, within one professional training. Doctors who are professors at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad have less income than their colleagues who do the same work and teach at Belgrade University. What's the criterion here? What does that mean, that these are more valuable or that they know more? To the remarks of doctors from the University of Novi Sad, and most likely other universities, but here we have the exact fact that this is a big difference, do you know what kind of response they got from the ministry? They said -- it's okay, we'll cut salaries at Belgrade University, because we don't have the money to pay equal wages. That's what the solution is. You mean based on these and similar solutions to keep the experts. You won't, gentlemen. There's a big perspective here when it comes to the development of the economy, and you, gentlemen, except for this deficit, which is tolerable, you have another deficit that is your inevitable, obviously, which is this trade deficit that appears every year and that occurs when it comes to export and import, rather than increases in favour of imports. We have also listened to the public about this, the stories that this is the result of imports of repromaterials, imports of equipment, etc. We have a list of exactly what Serbia imports and Serbia exports and I can tell you that out of those 10 products, which you have interpreted as equipment, there are only imports of coke and ore for Jelizara Smederevo, but that's somewhere in eighth or ninth place. Do you know what's highly placed when it comes to imports? Cell phones. Imports are also what imports of the flag. We have a trade deficit from Poland, you know why? Because we're importing engines for the flag. We always listen to reason – it's almost business. It's not gonna happen. The opening of the screws of the industry does not bring progress to anyone, even to us in Serbia. We have here, when it comes to exports, something that is devastating, after wheat, after corn, we have to export cables. Is this the result of all these foreign capital investments, that highly-placed, when it comes to exports, a highly-ranked product – cables? Well, you can't base the development of the economy on cable roll-ups. It can't, it can't be, not because we Serbian radicals dispute, but it's not even known to theory, especially practice. What are we talking about here? We're talking about something that needs to come and it's being announced here that it's going to be a record GDP growth. Based on what? When the European Development Bank, which is one of Serbia's top lenders, says it is expected to expect a maximum of three to 3.5% of GDP growth. Wait, gentlemen, so you're not saying that those who give us credit are wrong? I guess they know best, I guess they have the best insight into what's going on in Serbia's economy and what Serbia's doing, and here we're listening to stories? In order to come and have a realistic coverage of all these measures proposed by the Government, and they are related to the draft budget, we, in continuity for at least five years, must have a GDP growth of at least 5%, gentlemen. We must have had it as a state. In order for this to be done, there must be completely different things to be observed, it must be viewed differently on this side of the investment, monetary policy must take some measures. You can't do this. You're taking this to Serbia in the sun. You have a record broadcast of value, and that's something that's accompanying, that's something that contributes or contributes to a charge in about five, 10, 20 years, and here you talk, boast about how you think about children, about the future. Do you leave them to pay interest which is and how significant when it comes to securities of value? It's not a solution, gentlemen. There's got to be a solution to work looking for a whole other side. We import energy from Russia and the biggest market is in Russia and don't tell us how you're going to increase exports to Western European countries. They are already in recession and have already made it clear that they are no longer interested in increasing imports, not only from Serbia, but from any other country. They are interested in increasing their exports, and it will slap something, including Serbia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64064	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64065	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, to take the opportunity just to respond to a few comments you've had the opportunity to hear. So on public sector wages, our policy, government policy of the Republic of Serbia, is just aimed at improving Serbia's standard of living and increasing in the shortest period of time. The increase in wages since November of this year is otherwise the third increase in public sector wages in the last three years. So it's not working here in one year, a year before some elections, as we've had the chance to hear, but for the third year in a row, after the fiscal consolidation measure, we're trying to make sure that everything we earn, what we save, in part and return to the citizens of Serbia, without jeopardising macroeconomic stability. With salary increases between 8% and 15%, with money provided by the 2020 budget, the contribution to GDP will be 9.5%. Why am I telling you this? Because I want to go through the numbers, through the figures very precisely how pointless the comments about the increase in wages were abnormally large or in any way code. So 9.5% is the share of salary for 2020 in GDP. In Europe, the average of countries, 28 EU countries, is 9.9%. In Croatia 11.6%, in Slovenia 11.1%, as they say – do not compare to the EU, let's go to the countries of the region, Romania 11%, France as much as 12.5% of GDP. We're at 9.5%. The answer for all those who say – yes, but the wages have been raised more than should have been. No, we want to raise wages and pensions even more, we want Serbian citizens to live even better. This does not endanger macroeconomic stability. Salaries stem from what we have saved, what we have earned and when you talk about percentages, participation in GDP, you see that we are again less than both the EU average and the average of countries in the region. So there's more space, we're not going to jeopardize macroeconomic stability, but the high growth rates we now have and that we expect years to come give us the right to say that the wages are going to be even higher. Yes, we are fighting for a better and higher standard of living for Serbian citizens, and in a shorter period of time, once again, without jeopardising macroeconomic stability in any way. I'll give you a similar answer for the rate of growth. Last year, I'll remind you, the growth rate of our economy is 4.4%. This year for the third quarter of 4.7. The fourth quarter will be over 5%. The building works great, never better. So, all industries, all industries of agriculture, of construction, of food industry, of heavy industry, of services, of growth. We expect growth in the last quarter of over 5%. Our budget projection is 4% for next year. We think we, too, think and the World Bank that we can do better and stronger. Otherwise, we did this projection next year with the IMF. Through new investments planned in the budget, new investments, new highways, new bridges, new tunnels, new hospitals, through an increase in living standards through increased salaries and pensions, through an increased minimum labour price, we expect to go even better than 4%. Is it small or not? It's much better than the negative growth rate these before us had. We've had fiscal consolidation measures over the past few years and then and you can't expect high growth rates, and we still have them. Now, with the process of financial consolidation completed, I would say – the sky is the limit, depending on us how fast we will grow. So we have to invest in education, we have more money in the budget, we have to invest in health care, we have more money in the budget, we have more money in support of the economy, we have more money in the budget, we have more money in the tax policy to encourage investment in our country, and we have it in the budget, we have it in our budget, we have it in our budget, we have it in our budget, and we have it in our budget. So, all that is necessary with the maintenance of peace, stability in the region, good, stable course, low inflation, we have in the budget, and I'm sure we'll go, and you've all admitted, and in the end I, too, that our budget projection is conservative, I'm sure we'll go more than 4%. I'd only take one more chance, actually not one more time. Namely, honourable MPs, I received another letter from Dragan Gilas, so I would like to reply to him on this occasion, too. It says Dragan Gilas that I haven't responded to his letter since yesterday, although I answered him very closely and told him and told him again and repeated his story about how in his time the public debt grew from 8.7 to 17.7 at the end of 2012, billions of euros, then, here we explain how the debt increased during the SNS government's time from 17.7 to the current 24.8. I explained it well yesterday and I'll do it again. Mr. Gilas, from 2008 to 2012, while you led this country, our country's public debt rose from 8.8 billion to 17.7 billion. So, for nine billion euros. At the time of your private company, you yourself, as you say and as you yourself have admitted, have earned 619m euros, out of which the net profit of your companies is 105m euros. So, you owed our country, you brought it closer to bankruptcy, you destroyed it, and during that time, your companies profited from it yourself. Interestingly, to that finding of mine yesterday, I didn't get an answer from you today. Next, you wonder, well, well, but still growing public debt after 2012. That's right, Mr. Gilas. I answered your question yesterday, and here I am. From 2008, honourable MPs, to 2012, for a five-year period of cumulative deficit, so each year they made budget deficits, owed themselves, took money, and then made deficits and made a minus, total cumulative deficit of 748.9 billion dinars, according to the average rate in that period is 7.6 billion. In 2013 and 2014, we had to increase the public debt to ensure that your deficit, Mr. Gilas, that minus you covered, so that the state would not go bankrupt, to continue to work, and that is why there was a public debt leap in 2014 and 2015, and then, with fiscal consolidation measures, we stop it and then your public debt with 70% of GDP falls to today 51% and tends to further decline. Once again, let me remind you, the third lesson for you is never a debt and you're not looking at it in absolute terms, you're always looking at it in terms of GDP, because what would the United States or Japan or some other country that has thousands of billions of debts say, but they're wearing it because it's growing like we've been growing in the last few years. So the result of your government -- a leap in public debt from 8.7 to 17.7 billion euros. Your private firms, meanwhile, have earned 619m euros, you have paid yourself a profit of 105m euros and made a fortune on the coat of arms of Serbian citizens. In the meantime, you only made deficits and made negative growth rates for our economy, so you threw money into the well. We, on the other hand, took the money to get back your losses, to cover your losses, to put the economy on a healthy basis, we have growth rates of 4.4, 3, 7, 3.8, 4.7 in the third quarter of this year, and unlike you who took these loans and loans to pay for some current costs, at the end to make losses, or to make yourself rich, our loans are aimed at highways, bridges, new schools, new hospitals, are directed towards a better tomorrow of our children, not at running spending like you, but at future and investment. That's a huge difference. Not to mention the amount of interest I was telling you yesterday, how much time it was in your day. Average interest in 2012 5.29%, average interest on public debt 3.17%. Today on a public debt of 24 billion, so imagine how much it's just a year's savings on how much better we run our economy, we pay attention to everything, and in the end the whole world appreciates us better. Let me finish with the last paragraph of the letter I got from Dragan Gilas. He says it's not true that new loans are taken to get back the old ones. Yes, Mr. Gilas, it is true, we also had two Eurobond shows this year at 1.25 and 1.6 interest, which we get, we return the expensive loans that you took, and whose interest rate is 7.25. And in the budget for next year in Article 3, we also have the opportunity to refinance those expensive commitments you've made, burden the budget, assign the citizens of Serbia, and at the same time fill your pockets and you've become rich. I didn't get an answer either, Mr. Gilas -- how's it going and why is it, and was it right that Mark Bastic's wedding godmother when he said his bags were tied around his head, that they were trying to rob him for what he was, in turn, robbing some others who were illegally building in Old Town? Whether it's your party's policy and your personal policy and I'll always be ready to match numbers, facts, numbers for everything you tell me and look forward to your next letter, but read a little better numbers. Consult a little bit more about the economy, you're doing well with your private finances obviously, but public finances, those in the interest of Serbian citizens seem to be going pretty badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64066	Thank you, Mr. Mali. Now the right to the replica has Vladimir Orlic, then Milorad Mircic. (Miladin Ševarlic: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't mind answering to anyone, but it's the basic order of the matter to answer to the MPs first and foremost, not to those who aren't present here. (National MP: Which member? ) Article 107. Rules of Procedure. So, I have twice asked the finance minister at this session and in one of the previous ones the same question – how many, who are on the 100 largest taxpayers' list in the Republic of Serbia, and do those taxpayers who are prolonged use budget funds and incentives from the Serbian state? If it were luck, you'd have a daily updated list on the IRS and the Ministry of Finance's website for something like that, and I don't see why you're avoiding it. Also, yesterday at 14.55 p.m., I received answers, or I did not get answers to six questions from seven asked among others by the finance minister. One question is: how much of the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget has been spent on the needs of migrants in Serbia for years, and how? The sixth question – is it also how much monthly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia is paid in the accounts of migrants staying in Serbia, the monthly amount per migrant and members of their families and the total annual amount per year? Mr Minister, why does the MP not have the right to receive such information, as I have not received any information – when, where, and on the basis of what rules and decisions by which authority of the Republic of Serbia has signed the contract or other legal document governing the return of migrants from EU countries to the Republic of Serbia? I asked for a copy of the signed document in question and how many migrants per year have received asylum to stay in the Republic of Serbia and how many migrants with asylum allocated in the Republic of Serbia have been bought or leased apartments or rural houses and properties, in which municipalities and how much money for these purposes has been allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from which budget positions? (President: Thank you, Mr. Chevarlich. Nobody answered that. I got my answer back with nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64068	Professor Chevarlic, would you like the National Assembly to plead...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64069	Yeah. I'm asking for an answer from the finance minister right now for questions relating to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64070	No, I ask you – do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on my violation of the dignity of the National Assembly just now?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64071	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64072	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64073	Thank you. I answered first of all because the question was asked – how do we form our projections and forecasts for certain years. You, Mr. Minister, said a little in response – so we are talking to some relevant international institutions and you mentioned the IMF. That's absolutely true. You know what? We are not professional enough for their great knowledge and their great consideration. I'm thinking about that particular Gilas he wrote you, but I'm thinking specifically about the IMF, because you're not the only one that Gilas wrote to. I think the IMF sent the letter twice, but I think it was also the World Bank once, and he explained it to them nicely. He explained to them that we don't know anything. Let's just because we don't know in the Assembly and you in the government, it seems like he doesn't know anything about the World Bank, he doesn't know anything about the IMF. All he knows is Gilas and the rest of his former regime, which is the yellow cartel, which is what these accompanying elements are. As they knew, it seems to me, in the last two years of their power -- about two years before the people had driven them off their backs once and for all, they explained to me that they were experts and the IMF had no idea and when the IMF warned them – don't do what you do, you will destroy your own country, don't do what you do, in bankruptcy and nothing else will be, the stone on the stone won't stay, Gilas and other experts say – you have no idea, you send them away Serbia and what happens – just what the IMF warned about. Now we're fixing the situation, and these guys are still smart, and they're still the only ones who are right, so they're also explaining to you who are saving Serbia and the IMF that no one else knows anything, only Gilas knows. You're right – some things he knows, 619m euros to pounce on his four firms' accounts for a few years in power I don't know another expert that he's managed to repeat such a thing in Serbia or anywhere else in the world. When we make projections, we can be so successful as to overcome what we are designing ourselves, as well as those international institutions. So is growth better this year than was projected by these international institutions at the beginning of the year? Better. Was it the same last year? No one could have predicted those 4, 4, but we did make that score. And as you can see, it's a trend, and it's a rule, when it's done seriously, when you think about the state, when you think about the people, when you don't think about them, like Gilas did, you've reminded yourself well of it, Mr. Minister, of his own pockets, of his own companies, of his own real estate, a man has 25 million euros, so much he's admitted to having, and he didn't have anything to bite him with when he started politics to deal with. Subsidies have brought directly, in order of size, hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Someone might say they'd do it differently, but they can't say they didn't make it and there's no cases. Several Central European countries have done the same thing that Serbia has done, at even higher levels, and have done a good job for themselves. What's not a good job for us to have 100 or 200 thousand new jobs? I mean, every one of these people today to turn to him and ask him, is it good what you're doing, or is it better when you were with that standard of Gilas and Tadic, and you know what they're going to tell you. Not the biggest problem with the standard of Gilasov and Tadic's 320-euro average, which can't compare to today's 500, the biggest problem is you know what, some of the former regime's representatives asked here if something had disappeared in some thousands, tens of thousands, the biggest problem was that in their time it was disappearing in hundreds of thousands of jobs. And for those people, the average wasn't even 320, for those people the average was zero, the perspective was nothing, and their children had nothing to look for in this country. Today, when everything is so much better and so different... (President: Thank you. ) The last sentence, Mr. Chairman, we are going to adopt these measures, not that, as someone said, by introducing Swiss formulas, we are trying to lure someone into the Swiss standard here. We all know it's not, but it's far better. Five is Swiss today compared to that of Gilas. It's to show that when it's done -- it can, and when it's thought and robbed, their criticism, their stories and their threats to the IMF and the government are like Swiss cheese. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64074	Thank you. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. You'll have four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64075	At least as much as a minister and a colleague. Minister, it is common in Serbia that the reply to the letter begins with - dear. Whether it's dear to you, Dragan Gilas or not, but it's always spelled "dear." There's something you can use in some of your exchanges of emotions with Dragan Gilas. Jevrem Brkovic is one of those who created an independent and independent Montenegro and a Montenegrin nation. Matija Bećkovic was a folk pirate and poet. Matija Bećkovic's response to the Brkovic-Brkovic attack, from the piper, from your dumb feather, was printed out these days. There's nothing different between me and you when it comes to your correspondence with the minister. That's bullshit, one. Who cares more about Serbia? In Serbia, it is of interest that you explain to us, Ministers, when it comes to wages. You've increased in the public sector. So far, when they turn into euro, the average salary in the public sector was 510 euros. Average salary. And in the private sector, it was 430 euros, without this increase, Minister. The average salary in Serbia was 460 euros. Now that you raise salaries in the public sector, on average, public sector wages will be 570 euros and remain at 430 euros in the private sector. Minister, you are a man of the profession. You are a man whose knowledge should not be doubted. Well, the private sector creates a cluster of this gross social product. Minister, how will this be reflected as a stimulating measure on those who work in the private sector, who work in the economy? They will look forward to coming to the public sector. What do they care, work a little, just enough not to get kicked out of work and get a much bigger salary? Minister, there's a problem you don't want to talk about in this debate, which is a pay grade problem. You've gone so far, ladies and gentlemen, that a physical worker at Elektroprivred Serbia has a higher salary than a top surgeon at a clinical center. Is that the point? Is this the art of raising the salary, or showing the average? It's not. Is the goal of such a transfer? It's not. Secondly, as part of the budget, you have very, very strange arches when you distribute these funds. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about some of the ministries. You, for example, have defined five million and 400,000 dinars in the Ministry of the Protection of Human Environment for the Protection and Conservation of Protected Species and Protected Migration Species, while at the same time something similar to that in the case of Migration, Toma Nikolic and his office received 42 million. Why? For the luxury of him and his darlings? He got 60,000 euros so he could drive in the car. He's got $19 million so he can share his travel expenses properly. What's this all about? How long will Serbia and how many dynastys exist in Serbia? And there's no difference when it comes to migration between these species and him. They're migrating the same thing. How long. Secondly, as far as GDP is concerned, let's finish here, Ministers, from 2015 to 2019, here's your statistics from the Republic Statistics Institute - in 2015, GDP at 1.8, that's after those big floods; 2016 - 3.3, then 2017 - 2.0; 2018. - 4.3 compared to 2017 and 2019 - 3.5. Is this something on which you base the projection that it's going to be over 5%?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64076	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64077	The EPS issue and in general the sector is one of the good examples of how some people like to selectively apply things and selectively declare something their principles. I'm referring specifically to the old Fiscal Council story. And today several times again, and I see, here it is, repeating this great expert, Gilas, who likes to write letters. And they say, when the Fiscal Council criticises something about the budget, the government, anything, they all agree, but they won't say if they agree with all the proposals then. Because here, this fiscal council says -- it needs to collect electricity 15% in Serbia. Do you agree with that? Oh, no, I didn't think so. Not even Gilas would say so nicely, openly, that he agrees with those things. He shouldn't have done it the other day, when they suggested 30% of the purchases from the same alliance, but there's another problem in the middle. That's their great knowledge. So, when Dragan Gilas tells us that it is not right to express public debt in relative terms against the total GDP, but should be in absolute values, I don't know, Mr. Minister, whether you've thought about it, now it comes to me, would then Dragan Gilas be obliged to explain those 17.7 billion that they left the euro, at the moment when the government left in that year, not to talk now about the effect, the momentum and the billions that come to it, and they go to their faces, but only those 17.7. Would he then be obliged to explain how he left the worse situation in the country than all the 1990s together? Was that an absolute amount of 14 comas something billion in 2000? How these great experts, with everything they privatized, with everything they put in their pocket, we know that for hundreds of millions of criteria, but what they wrote down by various world institutions, did they end up with less burden on the ground than a few billion. Probably because they're such great experts in the middle and everything. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been different stories here on the subject of what's good or bad, but don't you think the most honest thing to ask a man what he's happy about is whether his public firm is doing business in plus or that he has to pay for it, in what time Gilas is really measuring it for hundreds of millions, whether he has this average of 500 euros, which we agree on, is not our goal, we want bigger, or the 320, but for the lucky ones alone? Only for those who didn't lose their jobs, while Gilas and society got rich and ended up with nothing. You're asking a man what he thinks? It is good that there is a Milos Veliki highway, which today Bosko Obradovic goes to his Cačka, that has completed Corridor 10, which they use neatly when they tour the stands to tell lies about SNS and Aleksandr Vukic, all of them. They don't mind using the graces of what's been done today, thanks to who can and can. When you ask a man everything he has today, would he trade for the time he didn't have, when he had to look at a hole in his pocket? What do you think people are gonna say? Mr. Minister, it's not five comas that's something percent just an average interest rate that was in that time, you know what else is a good measure? So for the level of support they can hope for at this point, only the Gilas and his. What the paper says is 8%, it's like a big house. When they speak and work against the people, when they speak and work against the state, five comas may now be a real measure, because not the people, you know, not even those who don't know anything, and they think that the biggest experts in the world, the ones who have become so unfeelingly rich that it's not human or human anymore, the ones who are the main policy -- a bag on your head, so let's see how much you can breathe. The people are much smarter than those blatant tycoons think they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64078	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Now straight to the replica. Be if you can make it any shorter, Mr. Mircic, because I planned to take a break. Here, there's a chance Mr. Mircic and possibly Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64079	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Look, we are here in vain discussing someone who has literally been punished by the people for everything he's done in the past, and he's called whether Gilas, whether Tadic or anyone. You weren't as good as the authorities of the DS and their coalition partners in Serbia. They've had enough, over their heads, and Tadic and Gilas and you've come, you've taken power, you've taken responsibility. We're trying to get you as much as we can through budget funds to point out some shortcomings, something that we think is, you don't have to adopt, okay. You explain to us here that the price of the Moravia Corridor is expensive and so high because it's a digital corridor. Do you really think we're immature? What digital corridor? What digitization to collect for 300 million times from Cuck to Pojat? Wait, do you think Serbia doesn't understand that? Instead of punishing those who behave so distastefully, who waste money, we are talking to you here about the devastating policy of restitution. You, gentlemen, who have been with us Serbian radicals, have mentioned countless times – one of Serbia's largest capital potential is business space. What did you do? They brought back some of them who don't know who their ancestors are, give them back their business space in exclusive locations. And the one you have, gentlemen, business space as a category is as potential as it used to be when apartments were being redeemed. These are huge funds that need to be put into the budget. And what are you doing? You form companies, public enterprises, you still hold them, at the level of the city and the municipalities, and there's a combination of who's going to get some business space. Sell it. They are not small funds that should be made into budgets, and municipalities and cities should create new business spaces, have a privilege when it comes to location, have a privilege when some new facilities are created. The very fact that it's city building land means that one particular square in business space belongs to...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64080	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64081	Yes, business space is one of the great reasons why we need to remind ourselves of the former regime, those vermin, and to talk about what they were doing, so that these things don't happen again. Business space is one of the excellent examples that a danger if it is not properly understood can be repeated. Here, the Old Town municipality, you know where it is, very close, when you mention migration, the last political migration there ended up by all the former "yellows" first pretending to be something independent, and then every bird to its flock, migration and birds, it goes together, then to Gilas. Now, that Gilas over there is shaking over his Bastac, the one that puts bags on his head, they remembered well today, whoever remembered first, so that's their business manners, the manner of handling, but also the attitude towards people. A racket is pounded, taken where there was illegal construction, so let's see who's gonna touch the envelope, but no one can touch Bastaceva, because whoever touches Bastache ends up tied to a chair, tortures him for hours, like in movies, far away, they put that bag on his head. So there's an example of how you mess with business space. Have you heard of the Milan Gale Muskatirović Sports Centre? Did we mention it a small number of times in this room so you wouldn't hear it? What happened there with the business space? What happened to the total debt? Is it a little million or two million euros to make a joke that clean? When the city saves that company, when it saves that center, I can't say, I can't agree that there's any mud on our part, no, there's saving and ensuring that the people have what they belong to, not that any Bastacians, Gilas and similar abuses it. The city community itself, they say, may be the richest in business space. Now I don't know what the motivation is to work with such people, if it's not maybe that business space or that business space money. There's no political value, there's no ideal. Who participates in this authority, so do you know who supports it? It supports those who make Nazi fires in Belgrade, supports Bastac, Miljusa and others who burn books. You know who else she supports? He supports the world's biggest liars, and they are able for 15 days to wood every day – we didn't burn, we didn't burn, so on the fifteenth day, I'm Dragan Gilas, when he faces the evidence, he has to call the press, he's sweating in front of them, and he says, "Well, we've worked hard, but we're a little bit self-inflicted." And as for him who has been called mad for 15 days, you did not ask me, if you had asked me nicely, I would have told you. So do you know who else he supports when he supports them? The most common con artists who say, "Behold, there are some police stations being abused, and there are political stands." So within two seconds, it turns out -- it's not a police station, gentlemen, it's a local community. So, the people who settled down to the five-pare tabloid level, just because they want to power at all costs, just because they want to steal more, even more to steal, there's little of the 619 million Gilas, but they want to steal more. When someone supports, so you know what, call it migration or bird questions as much as you want, I see it as an interest in business space, money, and the value is there, so zero. And that's a big difference. (President: Thank you. ) Because of this, where there is value, where there is effort, where the results for the people are, where both the road and the schools and hospitals and higher wages and higher pensions are provided, they say where the politics of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS are, there is something Serbia can hope for. And where these forces, the forces of darkness and decay, which are like all those we keep reminding ourselves of, so they don't repeat themselves, there's no happiness there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64082	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a break of one hour. We continue work at 1520 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go, Dr. Laketice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64084	I would like to say first of all that it is very important that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia respect the legal deadlines for the adoption of the budget. In fact, since the SNS headquarters, so since 2012, we have had one event, I would say, and one moment for the budget to be passed within the legal deadline. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will also remind the MPs who remember that before 2012, the budgets arrived by December 12th to December 31st. You remember that famous one in 2009 when the representatives of the government of the time were chasing opposition representatives to withdraw the amendments just so the budget would be passed within the legal deadline and there would be no temporary financing. Today I'm going to talk, first of all, about Section 27 of this budget, the Health Department. What I want to point out is that something like this is happening, I would say, for the first time in this country's history, which is that the Health Department is being increased 73.38% compared to the previous year. What matters is that the health and health of the population is recognised as one of the most important parts of our system. What is very important is that there are several programmes in this Section 27 that define areas in health care that will be repaired, improving precisely by this draft budget. For healthcare, 13.826,760 thousand dinars will be more singled out. What are the most significant changes and where does the largest amount of funds I'm talking about go? Program 1801 is a very important programme in Section 27 that deals with prevention, therefore preventive medicine. Namely, this programme, i.e. this amount of money directed at this programme, will bring increased management in the health system. Also, significantly improved sanitary supervision, health supervision, and more importantly, drug and medical supervision. So the difference between last and this year is almost 400 million dinars. Serbian citizens should expect cleaner health institutions, a better quality health service just designed through this budget programme. I will also mention the 1802 programme on the means to go to the Institute of Public Health "Milan Jovanovic Batut", which will be directed towards preserving and improving the health of the population, which will be directed to collect sufficient quality instructions, i.e. quality parameters, indicators of the health of the population and based on them to implement adequate measures in the health system. Programme 1807 covering the construction of health institutions and the purchase of significant medical devices and equipment. This is where three billion and 200 million dinars were designed. I will remind you that despite the fact that in this earlier period, for example, we bought a gamma knife, bought over ten linear accelerators, of which only the first tour of linear accelerators, which is four, was worth 700 million dinars, in addition to intensive investment in the health system, there is one significant definition of further investment and monitoring of modern flows in this area. Also, what is very important is, and I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that in 2002 and 2003, the first time the state of Serbia not only planned to build four clinical centres but was also signed one of the first contracts when the plan was to complete all four clinical centres by 2012. Unfortunately for us, unfortunately, Serbian citizens have done nothing until 2012. It is precisely by proposing this budget that the dynamics that have been drawn continue, and this is the Low Clinical Center that has been completed. The first to end, Serbia's Clinical Centre in Belgrade in 2022, then the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad and ultimately the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac, which is also going faster than expected. In addition to this investment, i.e. increasing the monetary mass for this programme, we can say that it is very important to increase the amount of money that will be directed towards the information system. We know that an electronic prescription has been introduced, i.e. the Information Health System, the IZS so-called, but in any case the information system in healthcare is very important. Why? Not only to collect adequate information and health indicators, I am talking about the territory of the entire Republic now, but to get an adequate picture of the health situation at the level of the state, region and local level and to implement adequate health measures where necessary. The program is also very important in 1809. It's a program of this Section 27 that speaks of chronic non-infectious diseases. I remind you that according to the World Health Organization statistics, the leading cause of mortality in the world population is chronic non-infectious diseases. Unfortunately, that is the case in Serbia. First of all, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, malignant neoplasms. What is very important is that by just investing in the prevention of chronic non-infectious diseases, therefore, by investing in prevention we will also get reduced frequency and mortality from these diseases. Also, in this way we will get reduced mortality from infectious diseases because this division, that is, the programme is also talking about reduced frequency and mortality and also incompetence in various injuries, etc. This programme also includes marginal groups of the population, sensitive groups of the population and is therefore particularly important. Also, parallel to that, we are working on health legislation. What is particularly important to us MPs is the adoption of quality legal frameworks, above all, to keep up with time and needs, and that is something that surrounds this whole story. I would also like to remind you of Chapter 27 of point 3. It is the Budget Fund for the Treatment of Diseases and Conditions and Hurts that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, which formed the Government of the Republic of Serbia in mid-2014. In just three years of treatment, 58 patients were treated, and 134 patients were also referred to as diagnostics at foreign institutions. What is very important is that the Ministry of Health, or the state of Serbia, has only invested more than 32m euros in treating these diseases or conditions for the first three years of the establishment of this fund. It is something that points above all to responsibility, concern and, I am speaking now to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but especially to sensitive groups of the population. Finally, what I would like to say is that there are a few things to pay attention to, and that is intensively working on improving our place on the list of the European Health Consumer Index, that is something that is very important. Also, quickly solve all the problems that arise with generic medications. Then, working on preventive measures, we talk to chronic non-infectious diseases. It must be intensified because the essential thing – in the next period reduce frequency and reduce mortality from chronic non-infectious diseases. Also, what is very important is that this trend should continue. I'm talking about the trend of increasing the monetary mass that is defined for the Fund to treat certain diseases and conditions that cannot be treated in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64085	Thank you. Now the word has a lovely Mihaylovska. She's not present. National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64086	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, the 2020 budget is a better, more successful, safer and richer Serbia's basic economic document. The 2020 budget was designed to focus on better living standards and better quality of life for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The economy is based on sound foundations, and our economy is at a difficult rate of fiscal consolidation, but the only possible one is on sound foundations and sound foundations. Only such an economy can adequately respond to the needs of social policy and social protection functions that the state has in accordance with the Constitution in relation to its citizens. That the economy is based on sound foundations shows all the results the government has had so far, i.e. showing surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the third year in a row, shows projected economic growth for 2020 of 4%, shows a decline in unemployment from 26% in 2012, when the SNS took over, to 10.3% today, and in some municipalities and cities unemployment is already moving below 10% today and in some municipalities and cities about 5%. That the economy is based on sound foundations is seen by a reduction in public debt, but it is also seen by the gold reserves that the NBS has, and the gold reserves are 30.4 tonnes. In my address, I will focus on division 30. He refers to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. I will refer precisely to the socio-protective function of the state and social policy, because today I can talk proudly about it, given that the economy of the Republic of Serbia is the foundation of this society and that it is based on real foundations. In fact, at the department's division of labour, employment, martial arts and social issues, total decouplings increased by about 4% and amounted to 139.2 billion dinars. This is compared to the budget rebalance of 5.8 billion more, but also with the initial budget for 2019, that is more by 12.3 billion. What is the focus of these funds, and where is the largest increase in the division of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs? I would say that the increase compared to the budget rebalance of 1.9 billion dinars is in a position relating to the protection of families and children, that this is an increase compared to the initial budget in 2019, 9.9 billion. If comparison of 2018-2020 years to the division of the Ministry of Family and Child Support is made, it is more for 11.4 billion dinars. Why am I putting a special accent on this division of the Ministry? Because population policy is a question of the life of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the economy, the issue of population policy, our President Aleksandar Vucic, has marked it as a significant national and strategic issue and is the first one under a rug almost 70 years old, as the Republic of Serbia has recorded only negative natural growth in the last 30 years. The problem was brought out under the carpet, and for the first time, of course, with its support, the government proposed measures to encourage birth, or to encourage life. This is one of the measures that has been taken, because this section pays for parental allowances, maternity benefits and special care for children, children staying in the development of preschool institutions and other qualifications. I must point out that for the first time the amount of parental allowance for the first child from 60,000 to 100,000, that for the second child, it is the amount of 10,000 dinars over 24 months, that for the third child, it is 12,000 dinars over a period of 10 years, that for the fourth child, it is 18,000 dinars over a time period of ten years. For the first time, there has been an increase in the coverage of mothers, foster parents who have the right to leave for child care. No one to Alexander Vukic and this government cared about the mothers of farmers who had given birth to children, because they could so far exercise the right to leave to work for the care of children. Now it's possible and of course these are just some of the measures. President Aleksandar Vukic, whose vision and mission is the future and better life for Serbia and the future of this country, as well as our obligation to leave the country to our children and grandchildren, has announced other support measures to encourage birth. I must also say that 6520 million dinars are provided for the division of ministers without portfolios for population policy. As for Section 30 of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, I must point out that the increased amounts related to the payment of the rights of the most vulnerable and the poorest residents, and these are the residents who exercise the right to financial welfare, to the addition of care and assistance to children who are not lucky enough to live in functional biological families. Of course, I have to say that in the section relating to the payment of these benefits and social protection budgets has been increased by 2.6 billion dinars. Also, I must point out that the position of employees in the area of social protection has been improved. The salaries of November will be increased for employees of social protection institutions 9%, and in the Ministry of Labour the salary will be increased by 8%. What is very important is that 330 million more for digitisation, i.e. for the introduction of the information system into social protection, etc. e-socials, in order for social protection to be digitised as well, and the primary goal is that the funds that are intended for social protection are properly targeted and truly directed towards those who need this assistance most and most impediments. By digitising, i.e. by connecting, as well as by adopting the Social Cards Act, it will certainly continue to go towards improving social protection. I also have to point out that there are very significant resources, namely that an increase of around 14% in the department of labour goes to the labour inspectorate, to strengthen their capacities, because the labour inspectorate is important in curbing the gray economy, and the SNS also said, by coming to power, that one of our priorities is to combat all forms of grey economy, because they are the source of corruption. Also, a significant increase in the division of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work to strengthen their capacities, in order to implement the law and to increase the safety, safety and health of all employees. Mr. Minister, as for the letters of Dragan Gilas, which guides you, I think, on the second day, I must point out that he remained in the town of Belgrade for the families of 400 million dinars, that he remained in debt on behalf of the unpaid one-time financial aid to the most vulnerable population, and that one-time financial aid was paid to the poor citizens to buy bread and basic life supplies, e.g. Dragan Gilas, they owed 120 million dinars, in addition to, of course, robbing the Belgrade cash register for a billion and 200m euros. As far as Dragan Gilas is concerned, I have to point out another one of his activities, and it concerns his relationship with the most vulnerable social groups, which are Roma. The situation of the Roma has improved quite a bit. At the time of their rule, they were invisible people who did not exist legally. We corrected that mistake, and about 30,000 Roma became legally visible. What was Dragan Gilas doing with the Roma? He put them in canned containers and moved them from Belville, but imagine in a statement, personally he told him, given in front of TV cameras, that he was not solving the Roma issue, but was solving the matter of the location in Belville. That's exactly what he said, because of course, he was solving a local issue for his friend and tycoon Miroslav Miskovic. As for Dragan Gilas, I must say that, when we took over the government in 2014, it was noted that a picture of Drago Jovanovic was also found in the Belgrade City Assembly's solemn hall among the portraits of responsible citizens. Dragi Jovanovic was the head of the secret police and associate of the German occupation forces as one of the founders of the Banja camp, where Serbs, Roma and other anti-fascists were imprisoned, tortured and eventually killed. Dragan Gilas, of course, doesn't deserve the attention to talk about him anymore, because the politics of Dragan Gilas is one. It's a policy of your own business, politics of your own full pockets, politics of death, hanging, threats, rape, to all those who don't think the same way he does. Alexander Vukic's policy, SNS policy and policy of this government is a policy of life, peace policy, security policy and progress policy. That is why we will support the draft budget in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64087	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64088	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, dear fellow MPs, in the time available, I would like to refer to them as simply as I call them, the two biggest losers in this budget. In fact, it could be heard in the comments on the budget today and in your presentation that this is, among other things, the development budget. Unfortunately, it is not a developmental one for Vojvodina, as the 2020 budget for Vojvodina was 76.5 billion dinars, while on the basis of the rebalancing for the current year, it was 74.4 billion. That's why I think the biggest loser of this budget is the AP Vojvodina. I'll remind you he's a member of 184. The constitution, which reads -- the financial autonomy of autonomous provinces, in the third indent, determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income, and the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the AP's budget being used to finance capital expenditures. If the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia is compared to 1.334 - 1.335 billion dinars, with the province's budget, it turns out to be less than 6%, which is below the minimum 7%. Whether it is a real bill or not, whether it applies only to tax revenues or to the total budget, I call on that member of the Constitution, as it says, to the total budget. I don't think this needs any comment. If compared to Belgrade's budget, which according to the deputy mayor's statements is increased by nearly 10% and amounts to 143 billion dinars, when compared to the number of people in Vojvodina, it is still more numerous than Belgrade, but I am not sure in the next list that it will remain that way, given the fact that more and more people are evicting from Vojvodina territory, especially from Vojvodina villages and smaller towns. The only place the population is increasing is New Sad. It is clear that with such small resources, such small funds cannot be invested in some capital projects as they are, for example, given that Vojvodina is known for drinking water problems, let's say, to invest in the construction of a regional water supply system that would solve the problem of more drinking water municipalities. Unfortunately, although the constitution provides for the adoption of a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, the law has not yet been passed. I will remind you that in March of this year, we proposed as an LSV parliamentary group this law and conducted a debate, the three of us, just the three MPs, held a debate in this House and stayed completely alone in the struggle for the financing of the Vojvodina and for the adoption of this law. Of course, our bill was finally not passed, and the government has not come out with its proposal to finance the AP Vojvodina until today, so here we have this discriminatory budget. With that, we in LSV find this relationship with Vojvodina inadmissible and present an insult to the citizens of the province, because also because of Belgrade's centralism, to call it, suffer and other parts of the country, there is not only Vojvodina in the problem and it is viewed, above all, in such great differences between the province's budget and the capital's budget. Except for the province's funds, the provinces are gradually abolished by transferable powers in many areas. The question arises what is the province administration? We will come into such a situation one day, I fear very quickly, that the question and purpose of the existence of the province's administration will be raised. The president of the province's government, Mr Igor Mirovic, says he is working well with the Republic government unlike the previous government, of course, when he agrees without discussion and fulfils all the tasks of the Republic government, and unfortunately he has not fought for construction, the case works, any highway in Vojvodina that he has promised. I will remind you that the Fruskogorski Corridor was to be built or that at least its construction was to begin in the term of office of this government, however, according to the funds allocated in this budget of only 200 million dinars for the construction of the project documentation, there is no further change in the Fruskogorski Corridor. Also, project documentation is late for construction for Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway, Zrenjanin-Novi Sad. So none of these corridors, or these roads, are planned at all in this budget. Here, I brought here a map showing, planned, built roads on the territory of all Serbia. On this map, it is well seen that the area of the AP Vojvodina is almost white, not planned, nor is it under construction of any highway on the territory of Vojvodina. So we think that if we take into account that in this year about 90 kilometers of highways have already been released and that a whole series of roads are planned on Vojvodina territory, it's like one almost white area, all about 15 kilometers has been built. Everything else is done on repairs or better said to patch up roads. Speaking of Vojvodina, I would also like to refer to the position of "non-intentional assets" assigned to the municipalities of the Republic budget. I asked the same question last year when the budget debate was and by which criteria these funds are allocated. So certain municipalities that are not undeveloped receive greater resources than some of the poor and undeveloped municipalities. For example, Ada gets about 90 million dinars, immediately next place is Alexinac, gets 498 million dinars or Irig municipalities that belong to poorly developed municipalities in the territory of AP Vojvodina gets some 86 million dinars, next is Jagodina, which gets 321 million and could not be called undeveloped. With this statement, I risk Mr. Palm calling my party president again and asking him what I have against him. This is really nothing personal against anyone, but simply looking for an answer last year and this year, which are criteria for the allocation of non-purpose funds by municipalities, which would be to give funds without the municipalities having to justify by any documents for which purposes they use these funds? And they're not small funds, I think there's about 33 billion dinars in total for the entire territory of Serbia. The second loser in this budget is, I have to say, given that the area I'm dealing with is environmental protection. The total budget allocated to the Ministry is 7.9 billion dinars. We could hear here that there is an increase of around 1.7 billion compared to this current 2019, which is intended for the Green Fund. Unfortunately, the Green Fund remains a budget fund and does not collect all the funds from the fees paid by contaminants, i.e. the so-called ‘eco-taxes’. According to some information, about 12 billion dinars were collected in this year under the name "eco-taxis". However, all these funds are not returning to projects or better to say "Green Fund", i.e. for "Green Fund", according to this budget 4.3 billion dinars. Why is that still so? The same problem was last year, and this year most of the funds collected from "eco-taxis" are not returned as "green dinar" in the area of environmental protection. Where do these remaining funds go? I must mention that Mrs. Prime Minister said recently at the opening of a session of the Assembly of Member States of the Protocol on Water and Health in the Palace of Serbia that in the Government they are aware of how much we should do and how much money we must invest in protecting the environment in order to achieve European standards, especially in the protection of rivers and water quality. I, here, quoted her statement, and then let's face this kind of environmental protection budget that's so small and not enough to fix anything in this area. In fact, it shows how much ignorance and misunderstanding of the importance of the regulation of the environmental protection area is, and that concerns all of us, it is not just the privilege or task of the people involved in this area professionally. For example, with this rate of investment in water regulation, as one of the key and most vulnerable areas, from drinking to waste, it would take us nearly 100 years, because in this budget, only 3.8 billion dinars are allocated in the area of agriculture for the water fund. That, you might say, is a ridiculously small sum when considering what problems we face when it comes to water in Serbia's territory. Recently, we had a problem with air pollution, and it was widely written about what places are most polluted and how important it is to have air quality measurements on as many points in Serbia's territory. However, we also heard on the Committee on Environmental Protection that there are problems in the regular maintenance of these cells and their functioning and that more new cells should be installed. At the same time, in the budget that we received next year, funds are being cut down precisely for this area of the Environmental Protection Agency. Is it possible that these people who make the budget don't listen to what's real and what's real and what's the need? It is obvious that the Ministry of Finance does not see the importance of this position, and the Ministry of Environment has no power to convince members of the government to understand that investment in environmental protection is equally important, if not more important than investment, in the IT sector and that green jobs can employ an army of people of different professions. Until we understand that, and until it's seen by those who make decisions on funds, and above all, I mean the Ministry of Finance and the whole government, we're not going to move in the area of protection or a millimeter. That's why I think the area of environmental protection is another loser in this budget. Of course, I'm not voting for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64089	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64090	Thank you. Dear MPs, let me briefly refer to a few of the comments we have heard, so let me answer what you have lied to. This year's APV budget totals when you add up all the allocations that are from both the budget and the Customs Administration, the Republic Property Directorate, the ministries of various, construction, economy, culture, agriculture, etc., the total money allocated to the AP Vojvodina is 91.1 billion, which is 8.6% in revenues. That's for 2019. You're talking about 7%. We're way above 7% when we add up everything that goes from budget to AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, for 2020, this amount is increasing to 100.1 billion. So nine billion more, which is 8.8%. So, I'd just like to and I'd love to have you add up all those projects that go to Vojvodina and thus show how much we care and how much we invest in that part of our Serbia. As far as the projects are concerned, you haven't taken a good look at the whole law again. So you have in the Budget Act in Article 3 and a project to build a fast traffic stock, the first-row state road number 21, Novi Sad - Ruma - Shabac. In two places you have that amount. One is 250m euros, the other is another 200m euros. So, Novi Sad - Ruma - Shabac. You have a project to build a fast traffic station in Novi Sad - Ruma, so-called The "Fruskogorski Corridor" 550m euros in the budget. I don't know how you didn't see it. So it's just important for me to talk about facts and what's in the budget. As far as the environment is concerned, not only do you have more money in the ministry's budget, you also have a project to improve environmental infrastructure, waste water treatment plants and everything else, another 500m euros in the budget. There are still a few projects to improve energy efficiency, etc. Another 40 million euros, for example. It's huge money. At the beginning of my presentation, I said that we are talking about the development budget, we just need to read in the right way all the parts of the budget to see how we want to build new bridges and new roads and invest in the protection of the environment and health care, as we have just had the opportunity to hear in culture and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64091	Thank you, Minister. The right to replica has Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64092	I'm not an economist by profession, and I really can't, how can I say, return by budget, by different positions, where, how, how and how. I'm just asking you why this map is empty when the roads on the Duke's territory are at stake? What you're talking about, 200 million is meant for the French Corridor. It's a Novi Sad-Ruma with a tunnel through Fruska Gora. The remaining 500 million, which you're talking about, if I'm not mistaken, is what concerns the announced construction of the road to Loznica and the construction of the bridge at Capca. I ask you, I have decidently said - the French Corridor, which promises the entire term of office. From budget to budget, we had promises for the Fruskogorski Corridor and it now appears again, that even the prime minister of the AP Vojvodina said that the province had raised funds for the production of the project documentation, but that the whole business had been taken over by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, unfortunately, the job was not completed, or that it would be completed next year, and that he was very sorry that it was not finished, or that it was not done, at least that the works had started, but he would be able to say, I quote his statement, that he would be able to say that he had initiated it. I, just on the basis of what I had at my disposal and those comparisons that I had, you are now talking about millions of euro values, simply can't tell by which all the foundations are going into the province, what the transfer funds are, what the projects started by the Republic of Serbia, and are going on in the territory of Vojvodina. I still can't treat it the same way as if it's business that's something the province government decides or can decide on. That's why I mentioned that the circuit administration in this way, with the detachment of jurisdiction, Mic per mit will become a beachkeeper in the winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64093	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64094	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you don't have to be a big economist, just open page 10. Budget law. Here, it says, I'll read it to you one more time. So it's just enough that you can read the Cyrillic. A project to build a fast traffic station 1B Novi Sad-Ruma (Fruskogorska Corridor) 65 billion dinars, in euro 550m euros. I don't know just, look at the budget, so read it well, so that if you're wrong or not, and who's going to be the keeper in the winter period that the beaches, just read the budget and you'll see that it's also the French Corridor, as well as a large number of other important projects for Vojvodina, right in this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64095	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go, Mr. Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64096	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, I agree with the general assessment of most of my colleagues and colleagues that the proposal for a 2020 budget is realistic, well-planned and developmental. The budget has two main objectives. The first is an increase in living standards, which is best seen through projected wage increases and pensions. Secondly, the objective of this budget is to accelerate economic growth, which is best seen through increased public investment funds from 220 to 260 billion dinars. In addition, the budget pays special attention to the modernisation of education, the improvement of healthcare, the strengthening of the birth rate policy, the care of the poorest, the most vulnerable categories of the population, additional resources for culture, etc. I would pay particular attention to one important segment of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns strengthening economic traffic and any other co-operation in the region. One of the best examples is building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. The construction of a one-way highway Belgrade-Sarajevo from Kuzmin to Sremska Raca, from 18km, recently started. It also envisions building a bridge over the Sava in the length of 1.3km, also near Sremska Raca. The second route to Belgrade-Sarajevo highway is being built from Požega to Kotoman, so on the border with BiH, within 60km. The government also pays special attention to strengthening comprehensive ties with Republika Srpska under the special parallel relations agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. It is important to stress that both official Belgrade and official Banja Luka consider building Belgrade-Banja Luka highways as one of their priorities. We know the Republika Srpska government built the highway "9. January," from Banja Luka to Doboj, and that a few months ago, works on the construction of a highway from Doboj, or from the municipality of Vukosavlje in Republika Srpska, to Sremska Raca, 70km long, with the goal of connecting the Republika Srpska highway to the border with Serbia. The Republika Srpska government is scheduled to end the highway in the next six years, and this part of Serbia's highway, from Kuzmin to Sremska Raca, will be completed in the next two and a half years. So in 2025, we will have one historic thing that we will have a highway from Belgrade to Banja Luka, and this will connect Serbia and Republika Srpska to an important traffic station. I would especially like to emphasise the fact that President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia pay particular attention to the implementation of concrete projects aimed at helping the Serbian people outside Serbia, not only in Republika Srpska, but also in the Federation of BiH, Croatia, Montenegro and other countries of the region. I'll just mention a few things. The government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated over 32m euros for a number of concrete projects to be implemented in each of the 63 municipalities, as many as there are in Republika Srpska. What are these concrete projects? It is about the construction of kindergartens, hospitals, schools, local communities, pupils and student homes, special homes for children distracted by development, then the reconstruction of streets. I must indeed say that the reactions of the citizens of Republika Srpska are most positive and that we now have for the first time the Agreement on special and parallel relations between Serbia and Republika Srpska, which was signed in 2001, when it was SRJ, and in 2006 between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, is realized with concrete projects thanks to President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to stress that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not forgotten either, as I said, Serbs in the Federation of BiH. So on September 13th of this year, President Vukic was on a historic visit to the Drvar to mark the Day of Remembrance of all the injured Serbs. On this occasion, the government of the Republic of Serbia paid a million euros in the Drvar municipality's budget. These were very important funds that the Drvar municipality could pay back back liabilities to its citizens and that the funds were used for specific projects in the interest of the citizens of Drava. I remind you that the Drvar municipality is a municipality in which the Serb people live in the majority. In addition, the government of the Republic of Serbia is helping other municipalities in the western province where the majority of Serbs are. It's Glamoch, Grahovo and Bosnian Petrovac, on two occasions. This is a concrete example of how the state of Serbia cares in a concrete way about the work of its people living outside the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also helped Serbs in Croatia with several projects. The government has singled out twom euros for the reconstruction of the Serbian home in Vukovar, which is very important as a place where it will gather and where it will be able to work Serbian organisations founded by Serbs from the eastern Slavonia, Baranja, Western Srem, primarily Serbian-based organisations in Vukovar. Also, funds have been allocated to build a Serbian house, or Serbian centre in Knin. On the visit of President Vukic Kordun, i.e. the Municipality of Vrginmost, it was agreed to help build an Orthodox church in Vrginmost. The government has provided funds, funds have been transferred. The construction of the Orthodox church in Vrginmost began several months ago and is expected to be completed by the end of this year, which indeed came upon a very positive echo of Serbs who returned there, unfortunately minorities, but a large number of Serbs who were expelled or born and originated in the area. The government also helped Serbs in Montenegro. I remind you that more than threem euros have been allocated for the establishment of a Serbian house in the centre of Podgorica. It has now become a meeting place, that is, the seat of almost all Serbian organisations operating in Podgorica. The Serbian house, I recall, was opened by the Secretary-General of the Republic, Mr Selakovic, at the beginning of this year. Why are these investments important, i.e. the realisation of concrete projects, not only in Republika Srpska, but primarily in the Federation of BiH, Croatia, Montenegro and other countries of the region? Cantonal authorities in the Federation of BiH, on the one hand, have the federal government, on the other hand, run an open policy of discrimination against Serbs in the Federation of BiH. I remind you that about 600,000 Serbs lived before the start of the armed conflicts in BiH, in the Federation of BiH. According to the 2013 census, there are only 56,000, although real estimates say there are no more than 40,000 in reality. So over half a million Serbs were expelled from the Federation of BiH. The policy of discrimination by cantonal authorities and federal authorities has devastating consequences, which is why it is very important primarily to help the survival of Serbs in four Western areas where they are the majority. I remind you, it's Drvar, Glamoch, Grahovo, Bosnian Petrovic. But it is very important to see in the coming period that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, also with concrete projects, also helps Serbian returnees in other Western and Ukrainian municipalities, and in the Sava Most, both in Bihac and in Jajc, Bosnia Krupa, etc., but also in the Western Herzegovina area, especially in the Mostar area. I must say, too, that, thanks to President Vukic, concrete projects have been implemented to help Serb returnees who have returned to Mostar. The tragic situation is also with Serbs in Croatia. During the war, more than half a million Serbs were expelled from Croatia, primarily because of the policy of the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman, whose goal was to create a large, ethnically clean, Croatian state and that is why it is important for the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue concrete projects to help Serb returnees, primarily in the western area, so in the area of eastern Slavonia, Baranja, Western Srem, in the area of Banija, Kordun, Like, Northern Dalmatia, but also in the area of western Slavonia, from only 1991 to over 70,000 Serbs in three Croatian criminal actions called "Otkos", "Orcan" and "Papuk" in 1991. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia pays particular attention, I repeat, to Serbs in the region, where it lives in eight countries of the region close to two million Serbs, and only this way, concrete projects, concrete actions are sent a message and helping to keep a part of our people alive in its centuries-old areas, to help our people freely use Serbian language, to use Serbian script, Cyrillic and to preserve their national and cultural identity. One of the goals is to strengthen the national and cultural identity of the Serb people, regardless of existing state borders. So this includes preserving the Serbian language and Cyrillic, but this also means rearing a culture of memories of our fallen countrymen, preserving our baptismal glory, preserving our customs and traditions. So everything that makes the identity of a nation. Finally, I would also like to thank President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia once again for not forgetting a part of her people living in the region and the diaspora, in addition to the numerous challenges and many problems facing the Republic of Serbia, which they are successfully solving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64097	Thank you, Mr. Linta. Now it's Borisav Kovacevic's turn. He's not present. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64098	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are being repeated one situation that has been current here for the past 20 years, which is that the least impact on all of our opportunities, as well as on economics, has been on the Serbian government, i.e. the Serbian Government. Power in Serbia, already all of our main decisions are, unfortunately, being made abroad. And so, like previous governments, as well as previous regimes as DS regimes, everything is done in Serbia strictly according to the IMF dictatorship, and it had to be an experience to teach us that no country in the world has developed with the help of the IMF. We had all kinds of con men first. After October 5th, some self-proclaimed experts from the World Bank, the IMF, various financial institutions around the world, came to us here, when democracy came to us, bringing both west and Western standards and everything else, so we also had Bozidar Djelic, so we had Vlahovic, both Labus and Dinkic. It was during a period right after October 5th. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it came to power, continued the same trend, so we were able to see the genius, which did not stay in Serbia for half a year, Lazar Krstic, and Sasa Radulovic, we saw the profile of Dusan Vujovic, who now, having rebirthed Serbia, is going to help the economy of Ukraine, as well as the mission of the IMF and the World Bank. So, the complete, absolute continuity between the SNS and DS authorities. What is this principle that we accept, which we have been applying since 2000, is the principle of neoliberalism in the economy, which means unspeakable acceptance of everything that comes from institutions so-called. The Washington Consensus, and we're as if we're not able to realize that there can be no universal development program for every country in the world, because every country in the world has its specifics. The IMF doesn't admit that. That is why we should look at ourselves, firstly, to see what happened to the countries of Eastern Europe, the former communist bloc, countries that are from our environment, and recently in the last decade or 10 years ago, have entered the EU, such as Bulgaria and Romania, such as Croatia, to see their parameters and then know what awaits us if we stay on this path. The way of European integration, and for what we need IMF support. The International Monetary Fund never makes arrangements with states to make it in the interest of those states with which the arrangements are made, but to be in the interest of those represented by the International Monetary Fund. It can also be put into one plane, as there once was a dogma of communism and communist principles, so today there is, unfortunately, in our country and in most of Eastern Europe and regions, a dogma of neoliberalism and European integration. So it's not to be questioned, it's not to be touched, it's to be taken for granted, and the only task is to accept it to convince ourselves that it was good for us. Aleksandar Vukic, when he was, during his time as Prime Minister, boasted often and repeatedly about how he read the book of former Prime Minister Singapore several times. I'm sorry, but I can't remember exactly his name, but approximately that the model of Serbian development should be a mirrored model of Singapore. That in the reality of Singapore, which is an Asian tiger, so I guess we'll be a Balkan tiger about the economy, Singapore is developing despite the International Fund, not because he was listening unspeakably to what comes from the International Monetary Fund. What is the biggest mistake, and what is also continuing, is this shock therapy since 2000 – quick privatisation, come on but why sell everything alive, to introduce the sale of subsidies, and thus this budget provides for about 750 million subsidies. So, we give companies from abroad, 95% of these companies come from the west, at the workplace of 10 or 15 000 euros, there afterwards have minimal earnings for workers in those factories. These are all low-paid jobs, mostly physical workers. So, we're paying these workers for the next three or four years, just because we gave the company a job subsidy, and that company in Serbia is making extra profits. All of this received land for free and all possible necessary permits, therefore, documentation free of charge and by accelerated procedure. It is a model of development that we hope to reach a golden age in Serbia, and then when we become aware, we see that in Serbia, pensioners need to be helped and paid for 5,000 dinars of one-time assistance. It cannot be that Serbia is well and that our economy is right and that we should now export stability and our golden standard, while at the same time helping pensioners. Now you're looking for an alternative to the so-called. Little Shengen. So we are so strong and successful that we should now help our environment to be as strong and as successful as we are? No, it's coming to us because European integration has nothing, the EU has nothing, it's comforting to us for what we've been meeting for 19 years, the unspeakable conditions that come from Brussels or Washington or from where, no, it's comforting for us now to be members of the Balkan Union. That's what Serbia is offering. There are more things, as far as the budget is concerned, for which there really is no justification. What is nonsense is funding from Serbia's non-governmental organisations which are in Serbia, therefore, what is called civil society or whatever, which in Serbia are dealing with politics and are aimed at anti-Serbian action. So, the Office for Human and Minority Rights, where 0.3 billion dinars are planned, so 300m euros. The Office shall carry out tasks relating to the monitoring and reporting of human and minority rights, the application of international agreements, as well as the financing of activities of the Association for the Promotion of Human and Minority Rights. The funds will mostly be realised as grants to NGOs. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, that these are NGOs. These are: Fund for Humanitarian Law, Natasa Kandić, so the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, Sonja Biserko, House of Human Rights, Open Society Fund, citizens' initiatives and all others. What is the main theme of these NGOs? Kosovo's independence, Serbs are the executioners, the greatest criminals, perhaps even in history, but in the Balkans and here, for sure, so-called. The genocide in Srebrenica, Serbs attacked themselves in the Republika Srpska Krajina, Kosovo, BiH, Serbs are the biggest aggressors and the biggest criminals and Serbs deserve to be bombed. Not to talk about Kosovo's independence, not to talk about the Mirdita festival, which is being organised by NGOs in downtown Belgrade. So, the promotion of Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade paid in an indirect manner from Serbia's budget, because in these competitions, money is defined exclusively by these NGOs. So Serbia is funding the promotion of Kosovo culture in Belgrade through the Mirdita festival, indirectly. In addition, SNS, nakarada and Tasovac were present. They're city councilmen, they were there to support the project. So, we pay those already funded from abroad, of course much more net than Serbia pays them, to here after spreading such things about Serbia and our people. We saw the other day about the one in Vukovar, the women in black and the others. That's what you pay for. Why? No one knows. What is paid, why is it necessary with Serbia to pay these NGOs? Maybe you're looking for some kind of support from them that way. That's what the yellow ones used to do. The second topic is national stadiums. You were saying that, not just those stadiums, i.e. A national stadium that will be in Belgrade, but also a small town will develop, so there will be housing and business spaces and what not, wonders. Let's see what happened to some countries that thought the same thing Serbia thinks today. In Athens, how much did they invest in holding the 2004 Olympic Games, and how was it worth their while, and what are these sports facilities for now? Has the city developed around these facilities? It's not. What happened after the Winter Olympics in Sochi? Also, business and housing complexes, also arenas, sports facilities, etc. And it sounds empty today. Unfortunately, Serbia is not the Russian Federation so it can afford such a thing. We spend a lot of money on something that's uncertain in the future that's gonna happen. Maybe Serbia won't win along with Romania and Moldova and I don't know who not, that European or world championship, what are we going to do then? How are we gonna get paid for our national stadium? And when we get that, what do we do when it's over? How did the Greeks go and how did the Russians get into Sochi? That should teach us a lesson. Who's gonna be able to fill that stadium? Only Ceca. Otherwise, we don't need these stadiums for other purposes. What is one of the main affairs of the Serbian government, the current one, is so-called. Moravia corridor, highway Prelina-Pryate. The estimate was six years ago that it was worth 500m euros. This is where the US ambassador to the Serbian government appears, signs the protocol at the Ministry of Infrastructure with Zoran Mihajlovic, without any tender, without any competition, and then brings a "lex specialis" here on the basis of it, after which such an invitation is made only that it can pass "Bechtel". And his price is 800m euros. What's changed? How is Bechtel so much more expensive? What does that pay 300m euros more? Is it someone who's paying for a racket from the U.S. Embassy, or is it a crime involving a minister in the government? There's no excuse. I will visit you, Aleksandar Vukic as Prime Minister spoke several times, one share on Milos Veliki Ljig-Preljina's highway was subscription, it seems to me 40m euros and he spoke as evidence of the theft of the former DS regime, etc. Because they stole it. How is that different from what's being prepared with Bechtel? Look in the environment, Bechtel built the Split-Karlovac highway and there was also an affair in Croatia, the minister of infrastructure had to resign when corruption was found out in the business. This Bechtel is operating throughout the world through the political pressures of the US Embassy and is only interested in direct contracts. It's not the 19th century, so they only know in the West how to deal with infrastructure without anyone else knowing. How is it possible that we had a Chinese company that could have done this Moravia Corridor, it was good for Milos the Great, and it's not good for the Moravia Corridor, so it has to bechtel? How's that? On the other hand, could the 300m euros have been used for road infrastructure in another part of Serbia? Today we have the whole of Timočka Krajina, Zaječarski and Borski district, in terms of travel infrastructure, Serbia's appendix. How far is Kladovo or Negotin or Zajecar from Belgrade, and how long does it take to get there by car? Is that maybe one of your priorities? To all this, US Ambassador, former Kyle Scott, in the Serbian government in the presence of Zorana Mihajlovic says that for them Kosovo is an independent state, so other than taking our money, which is racting us, still humiliates us in the middle of Serbia's most important institutions. There, that's what we got. So, it is high time that we really want to develop, if we want to better Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, to give up that mantra of the European Union already once, to see what's in our national interest when it comes to economics, to work with everyone of course, but on equal grounds, without political conditioning, and to consider whether there is any other EU foreign policy alternative for the Republic of Serbia today. In our opinion, there is, it is co-operation with BRIKS countries, with the most powerful economic countries in the world, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, with the countries of the Shanghai Organisation for Co-operation, Serbia's membership in the Euro-Asian Economic Union, of course, and Serbia's membership in the Co-operation Security Committee. It is the right path for Serbia, not the path of neo-colonialism that will only make Serbia a source of cheap labour, which will see why it gets our highest values, our resources, and the least of them care about development, economy and the standard of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64099	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64100	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, let me refer to what we have had the opportunity to hear in the past few minutes. If I understand correctly, the attitude we have heard is against helping civil society, civil society organisations. I will briefly go through several kinds of assistance or support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia through these programmes. Let's say, Serbia's Olympic Committee, if I understand correctly, you're against helping the Olympic Committee of Serbia and helping our Olympics get the right idea of the world. Let's say, in the field of sports, so I'm saying, you have programs from sports camps for prospective athletes, 50 million dinars, so that's within that figure you said. Are you against it? The Serbia Paralympic Committee, also 50 million dinars, if I understand correctly, you are not in favour of these organisations and these organisations, to say, civil society, to which the Government of the Republic helps. He says, support to associations in the field of combat disability protection, 100 million, Ministry of Labour. Are you against it? Supporting youth employment and active inclusion, 98 million dinars. You're probably against it, too. Support to associations in the field of protection of families and women. Vote freely against it, we pride ourselves on helping those associations that deal with this topic. Protecting the position of people with disabilities, 450 million dinars. I didn't understand it was your MP's group against this money. Supporting the work of the Serbian Matica, I just heard from your MP group that it needs more money for the Serbian Matica, you say -- you don't need to support NGOs, just to tell me what's at the end of the line, so I know how to define myself. I also heard a little while ago from your MP group, supporting the development of literary creation and publishing, needs more money. We put in 30 million dinars, you say -- well, you don't need to help NGOs. Supporting the strengthening of theatre art, supporting the informing of people with disabilities, therefore, all of this you would like to exclude from this budget and not be in that budget. Protection of cultural heritage, support of the SPC in Kosovo and Metohija. It is interesting that you are against, say, the Ministry of Health 300 million dinars for the Red Cross programmes of Serbia. Well done if you're against the Red Cross, I think they're doing a good job and you should back them up. Serbia's anti-cancer activities, seven and a half million dinars. We'll support it, even though you don't support it. Maintaining the national and cultural identity of diaspora and Serbs in the region, 95 million dinars, more for four and a half million dinars in 2020 and 2019 respectively, support diaspora, Serbs in the region. Interestingly, you're against it. Okay, I hope that the citizens of Serbia understood why we have money and for these needs, which is why we also support organisations dealing with their business, of which Serbian citizens can benefit greatly. As far as the National Stadium is concerned, I don't agree with you here. You know, I also remember comments and conversations and remarks that we had on "Belgrade on the Water" that it was a dream, that it would never happen, that it was just another big lie. So we made the ugliest part of Belgrade the largest construction site in this part of Europe. You have a large number of buildings built, a large number of workers, I think 1.550 workers work every day, earning their bread there. That's how we're gonna do something with the National Stadium. Yesterday, I explained how much almost all the countries in the world have their national stadiums, sport has become a big business, and it is one driver for the development of this part of Belgrade, where through investment in infrastructure, in business, in housing we think that the Republic of Serbia, that the city of Belgrade can make a lot of money, to encourage the further development of our construction industry, the development of our economy in general. It will be a good project, and we will, I said, choose the designer in the next ten days, and then after he makes the first projection of the plan and everything else, we will sit with you, and we will present it to the citizens of Serbia and see what they have to say about it. In any case, the feasibility study is done, it is already partially and done. So we will create a stadium that is only sustainable, which will not cost the citizens of Serbia, which on the other hand will make both profits for us and, of course, make a real promotion for our country. As for the price of the Moravia Corridor, let's wait, let's see exactly what the price is, who's going to do it, because some of the things you're prejudge at this time, so when we find out, then we'll discuss it and we'll go through all the items, one by one, how much and what it costs, and what's all about this project that's, for me, for the citizens of Serbia, of national importance. So, after Corridor 10, the eastern and southern arms, which we've been waiting for for decades after the Milos Great Highway, which we've been waiting for, if I'm not mistaken, 70 years and over, so Alexander Vukic and did it unlike those who had just promised before him, we'll do that Moravia Corridor, and when we sign the contract, when we choose the performer, when we finally know what the final price is, but I don't know it, you obviously know something more than me, then we'll see by the items why and what the price is, so together we'll build that highway on the joy of Serbia's citizens, especially that part of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64101	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64102	Nothing more, Mr. Minister, from you I don't know, there may be a problem in your communication with you in the government, Zorana Mihajlovic spoke of it even publicly at a press conference for a few days. But okay, let's wait. We warned on time about what was being prepared, watching performances, a protocol signed with "Bechtel" a year before it was said and determining public interest etc., "Bechtel" has already been elected. But okay, let's wait. As for "Beograda on Water", we have never been against "Beograda on Water", we are against a direct contract and we are against corruption. We're just against it. Well done on "Belgrade on Water", if all is legal. We talked about it before the beginning of the SNS, not that way, not with that name, but with that project. So, you may not be well informed, you're putting us in the same basket with someone else. As far as NGOs are concerned, you're too banalizing. I wasn't talking about total redistribution for the non-governmental sector, which is 10 billion dinars, I was talking about 300 million dinars for the Office of Human and Minority Rights. The Human and Minority Rights Office is calling for competitions. He can't win money at that contest, not the Olympic Committee, not the Red Cross, not the Serbian Orthodox Church, not the Veterans' Association, no one can, except these people, i.e. Foreign interest agents, why not call them what they represent, therefore, only those who deal with politics through a human rights protection company mask their anti-Serbian activities in Serbia. No students, no Red Cross, no religious community, no Serbian Orthodox Church, no Serbian Matica will get money from the Human Rights Office. I wasn't talking about those numbers you listed, I was talking about 300 million dinars in particular. All the competitions that the Ministry of European Integration has called are for that purpose, because we think if there is a bribe there to finance NGOs, it will be easier for us to join the European Union. Neither the Serbian literary cooperative nor the Serbian Mother nor the Red Cross will profit. We are not against the association, we are against those associations called NGOs for the protection of human rights, which exclusively deal with the collapse of our country, our identity, declare us criminals and declare us genocide. That's what's being financed this way. So, don't change the thesis, but look and when you compare it, you'll see that as far as funding is concerned in this way, it can only mean that the Serbian government needs support from the NGO sector. When I say the non-governmental sector, I mean you, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, "women in black" and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64103	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64104	Thank you very much, honourable MPs. So we agree that it is necessary to help civil society organisations and that they play a role in Serbia's development. As regards the Office for Human and Minority Rights, therefore, the money goes towards improving the position of national minorities and monitoring the application of international obligations and implementing anti-discrimination policies. I think that's the money that's directed towards a good cause. I'm glad that the money that is allocated to these organisations or to this area is now, of course, when proper procedures are implemented there are organisations that use this money, but on this point I don't see why we wouldn't be promoting the position of national minorities. It's one of the policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why we shouldn't pursue anti-discrimination policies. So it's one of the liquids of modern society that we're fighting for, therefore, against discrimination, for more tolerance, for any kind of discrimination in our society. We may disagree with you here, but it's a policy we won't give up on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64105	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64106	As far as we're concerned, we agree, but we still don't believe it's money for that purpose, because if someone were interested in national minorities it would probably be financed through national councils. What do we need national advice for if we have NGOs? Why we spend so much money on national councils, elections and everything else that goes along with it, if NGOs are already protecting those rights. The right minority should be respected, their culture, their education, all that matters, but this money is not defined for those purposes. It is dedicated to Women in Black, the Helsinki Committee, the Open Society Fund, those who are now preparing new electoral laws, which should teach us how to count and how to collect votes, how we should vote, how we should behave both in the Assembly and in the election campaign, etc. They're the ones who are very smart, well, they're funded in this way and similar to them. So, those who developed a protest the other day about the Serbian crime of major and aggression at Vukovar, those who call for the recognition of genocide in Srebrenica, those who think Serbs deserve bombing, those who think Serbs in Republika Srpska have invaded themselves. Now, that's what we finance in this way, not national minorities. They should have the position they deserve, be provided both education and culture and everything. But in this section, there is none of it, not for that purpose, but only for those who have already been paid for their activities in Serbia, much more than from Serbia's budget. They also brought us this democracy on October 5th to the bulldozers. We are paying them today because we think that we will join the European Union sooner and get closer to the European Union and I don't know what it is. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64107	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64108	Dear Vice-President Arsic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to speak after so many MPs on the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, I thought I'd step aside from the discussion, say a few sentences about the budget after all. What's important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that the budget is talking about how we're going to work next year, how we're going to work, how we're going to live, what pensions we're going to receive, what wages we're going to have, what standard we're going to have, etc. In one sentence if a citizen asked me on the street, I would answer – we will live well, better than this year. The budget law for 2020 is very well set, in my opinion, because it rests on three pillars – first, on production, or on production growth, on investment and consumption. This is the first time since 2012, and I have not said before, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is also set up on this third pillar, which is consumption. The budget is developed, not pre-election, and we all agree, even the Fiscal Council sees that sentence repeated, which is a great critic of otherwise budgets, and also of the ruling coalitions. However, economic movements in our country will also depend on the economic movement in our environment and we must take account of this, primarily of the Eurozone, because it is the main economic partner of the Republic of Serbia in the most part. In addition, the budget will depend on the speed of implementation of the reforms initiated, i.e. the more efficient implementation of all the parameters of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our President, Alexander Vucic, as Prime Minister, promoted in 2014, and we have been constantly, here, you see, for four years now. What is very important is that a new investment cycle for infrastructure investment is being launched in 2020. This is very important, and it is that pillar, or engine, that will in some ways encourage a gross social product. It is precisely capital investment that will boost the growth of the gross social product of 4%, as the minister said, but I really hope, I don't, I could also bet that it will be bigger. It's a good thing it's a conservative approach to the budget, and I hope it's safe, that's my personal opinion, 5%. That's why well-planned investments are 6.4%, which will bring the share of around 22% of GDP closer, that's really very good. Of course our exports will grow from 8.1%, imports at 7.4%. What is very important to our citizens and what they will feel in their pocket, which is that the salaries will grow from 8 to 15%. As you know, culture 10%. Let me say that this is the first time in years that the accent is given to culture, a priority to culture. That this power of the SNS gives priority to culture proves building objects of culture, starting with the National Museum of Applied Art and other cultural institutions. What is important for the next year and the future is to pay more attention to our Ministry of Culture with programming foundations and more people in culture, starting with libraries, museums, not to list further other cultural institutions. The Ministry of the Interior, defense of primary school, high school, what is important for our teachers and student standards, higher education institutions, preschool institutions about the rate of 9%. Why less than culture? Because last year, as you know, they went more and more, and indeed, in some ways we want to balance the relationship. Nurses, you heard, 10%, doctors 10% and other medical staff 8% and other budget users not to speak anymore. Growth of 4% of GDP in 2020, more than half of this growth will be defined by the movement of services that are expected to grow at a rate of 4.3%. What is very important for our citizens and for the state of Serbia, which is that Serbia will enter the intensive modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which we have been implementing since 2014, intensively. What does that mean? It has increased in some ways, a certain degree of development will be achieved, and therefore we all need together, not the government's people's MPs, but every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, more work, more effort, more sacrifice. Then, day - to - day training at all jobs and work assignments, starting with security workers to the Academy of Science. Daily perfection and more faith and confidence in what we do. These three factors, in my opinion, are very important to achieve a certain intensity of modernization that we have long identified. What is important, which is that we gave education, by means of financial means, not to repeat previous colleagues and colleagues, said about education and health, when they join together almost 100%, but if next year and the next year in education we don't pay any more attention to programmes, curricula and programmes in terms of modernisation and up-to-date, we'll be able to reach GDP in three, four or ten years, what we've been planning. That's why we need a change of curricula and programs. I think the Ministry is doing well through various programs, some of which we have already achieved, some successes have been achieved, and some are under way. I think it's going to go, really on its own. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly sorry that there are no works of our political opponents in the hall today to cross-reference views on the most important law for 2020, i.e. about the Republic of Serbia's budget, but that's their choice. That is why he will bear a certain responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and there is no dilemma. What is important is that citizens see that they prefer to wander the streets of Serbia's cities and daily poison citizens of the Republic of Serbia with lies about the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, SNS and the MPs of the SNS. One of them, representative of the Alliance of the so-called for Serbia, it is also Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who has no shame at all, when he is daily gliding with lies either on TV or here at press conferences. Now, distinguished ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, it is an opportunity for me to tell you who this lady is, Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić. It is the one that, at every turn, you have seen, muds the Serbian people and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. She, visiting the TV show on "Hrt" in Zagreb, said that the criminal action of the Croatian military and police is so-called "Hrt". A storm in which more than 250,000 Serbs were ethnically cleaned, quote – humanitarian action. It's a finished quote. This is Mrs. Raskovic Ivić. The biggest living Croatian philosopher today, Dr. Zarko Puhovski said about the storm, quote – the storm was, not only ethnic cleansing of Serbs at the level of toponomastics and onmastics, but at the level of gruntovnica, to translate it into Serbian language – at the level of catastra. It's a finished quote. Compare Puhovski and our Mrs. Ivić Raskovic. The lady, Mrs. Ivić Raskovic, said there was genocide in Srebrenica. A finished quote without shame or shame. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no Western explorer, historian and researcher, especially the American, stresses, nor from England, which claims there were genocides in Srebrenica, none. I can count you 60 now, all abroad. But I recommend that Mrs. Ivić Raskovic read three books by Prof. Vojislav Seselj about Srebrenica, especially this last one, to see American and English researchers what they said, what they came up with when it comes to Srebrenica. This lady, Mrs. Ivić Raskovic, lied that I did, you heard it the other day in a show about this high house, claiming that an academic insulted academic Matija Beckovic. Dear citizens, you heard what I said, and now I'm going to say it again. I said it was not good that the respected academic was not found for 800 years at the SPC celebration and the reason was because the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, received a high recognition of the SPC's son, the Order of St. Saved the first degree and I said, so I repeat again, this is true, that he doesn't belong there. Why? Because in 1993, he said, I quote -- the people who chose Slobodan Milosevic as president do not deserve anything but to bomb. It's a finished quote. Well, that's why she's defending him, and she's defending the bombing of her citizens, and you saw when she declares a storm of humanitarian action and so on. So, you see who this Sanda Raskovic Ivić is, I'm not talking about her anymore. But, Reverend Professor Ivić, when she wakes up in the morning, I recommend she have a look in the mirror. She'll see a nice lady, full of hate and full of lies, just like she lied to this, and when she finds out that Alexander Vukic and her president, because she said she didn't, I'm afraid she won't explode from the hate that can destroy her and God help her. In addition, the Honorable Vice President, another professor from the Faculty of Philosophy called for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is the professor, teaches the economy, Ognje Radonjic, called torture. You'll see why he tortures because the students called him torture, bringing up daily lies about the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, the SNS and the MPs of the SNS. Who is this current professor, Dr. Fired Radonjic? We need to know and see what the causes and reasons why he's saying it. According to Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy students, per pedagogical traits, it is one of the worst professors, not only at the Faculty of Philosophy, but also in Serbia. This is what students and students' research say. With Professor Radonjic, data on the passing of students on an economy-based exam are kept, I quote, "as a state secret". Imagine the professor who kept the state secret passage of the students. His pass is very low, which speaks of his pedagogical incompetence, to perform this sacred duty as professor. Its pass is below 15%, which is the lowest in the Republic of Serbia and if it must be above 30% in the Bologna process. The professor, called Tortura, is conducting torture against students. I'll quote, one former student: "When you answer too correctly to Professor Radonjic, you've learned by heart," finished the quote. When asked the question "genesis of economic thought", no student has ever passed because he always invents something that is not in question, and you, the respected Mr. Martinovic, are a professor, so you know that professors are not allowed to ask outside of the exam program. So you see who the man is. For a whole group of 18 questions, there is no literature at all, and the students are told, I quote, "Get along". Here's what one of his former students, named Shakic, says by last name, quotes: "When there is a pathological need for Professor Radonjic to humiliate the student," finished the quote. Can you, respected citizens, believe that this man teaches at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the 21st century? It is this torture that students call it "Professor Tortura", and daily muds us at the N1 CIA, starting with the President of the Republic, the Government, Mr. Vlada Orlic, Martinovic, my minorities and others. He never responded to the Faculty of Philosophy, and they rebelled, nor the Rectorate, and he tried the Trustee for information, but without success. Well, that's the kind of class they teach us. What is very important now, respected citizens, is those who walk the streets, professors, he tried, you saw in a list that defends a professor who claimed that Serbia should give up Republika Srpska and Kosovo and a professor who has reduced by 400,000 Serbian victims in the First World War. Look who's teaching us colleges. It is a revision of Serbian history and it is a serious threat to national state interests. Finally, the most difficult thing, gentlemen of the people, for a university professor is to make false structures with a certain tendency as Professor Ognje Radonjic does. It is even more dangerous to defend forgers of the number of Serb victims in World War I, as well as those who advocate that Serbia should give up Kosovo and Republika Srpska or those who say Gabrielo was a terrorist. It includes Professor Radonjic. Let me finally say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am once again sorry that there are no political opponents here. I'm just going to list them that aren't there, and I wish they were to discuss the budget. Dragan Gilas. I wish he were here, not that the minister writes letters, so we can cross the data. Dragan Gilas in the people called "The Giki Mafia". The people know why. Vuk Jeremic, a nation called one of the leaders of the international gang of bandits and thieves. Janko Vesenović, a miracle, in a people called "Janko Stanocrat", who stole the apartment of Milica Bajji in Obrovac, the streets of Brace Kurjakovic, number 7, and believe it or not, these days you saw him, advocated street demonstrations and said, quote Janko Veselinović, doctor of the "stanocradic" professor: "We will call the army and police". That's what they want, respected citizens, I have to stop here, Mr. Arsic, they want October 5th. Here's what Diane Johnston says, famous, about October 5th, so it'll be clear to the citizens what they're doing today. She says this way, I quote: "On the wings of the people's celebration due to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, who bordered with drunkenness, Serbia was struck by the stampede of unprofessional and gramistical and arrogant people, conceited leaders of fictitious parties, self-proclaimed experts, half-worlds of all caliber and profile, who promoted himself to revolutionary winners, and the state and all in the state for their hostages and prey." It's what they want today, and they're the same name and last name, and they're not interested in this election. That's why they tried to internationalize electoral conditions. They did it in 1990 and 2000. Two more sentences, I list the following, Dusan Petrovic, in a people called "Doule Kravokiller", because he ordered 250 thousand cows to be slaughtered today, out of 500 thousand dollars of the fund. Otherwise, in its area known as "Dule 10%" for taking, is it. Normally, you will now hear, a gromada of political, Marinika Tepic, called "The Dove of the Flies". She lies in one party at night, and wakes up in the morning, Mr. Martinovic, in the other party. It would be good for our public prosecutor's office to deal with the corrupt elements of Marinika Tepic while she was the province's secretary for sports of the AP Vojvodina. What is very important, gentlemen, is that her statements in the last 15-20 days are very dangerous, very dangerous for the national security of the Republic of Serbia, and you know what I mean, very dangerous. I call on the prosecution to see if the elements of criminal responsibility are in the statements, by the lies of Marinika Tepic, "The Doves of the Fleet," is it. Furthermore, not to list them and what is ultimately important, Mr. Sinisha Mali, I thought a few words about you, but let's keep it for the second time, to give you full and unreserved support in your work. I will vote for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why? Because he is one of the pillars of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ana Brnabic, the largest number of MPs in this high house, not only positions, but part of opposition MPs, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our esteemed president, Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64109	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia today when we talk about the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, we must also say on what assumptions it is based on. This is primarily a sustainable general government deficit of 0.5% of GDP, which was 0.9% in 2015. Then, a 50.3% reduction in public debt and is expected to be below 50% in the following year, and only a few years ago it was over 70%. Real GDP growth is projected to 4% for 2020, and so far we have always, what we have projected, not only have we achieved, but we have exceeded. The agreement at this rate of 4% gave even the IMF. The most significant source of growth in this GDP is personal consumption and will certainly be seen at a higher employment rate, as well as in a higher level of living standards and in more favourable conditions of borrowing. Apart from personal spending, investment will also affect GDP growth and will amount to 260 billion dinars in 2020, which is 6.4% compared to 2019. The fiscal policy in 2020 will be moderately relaxed, which means that the reduction of the tax burden on profits, the projected reduction of the contribution for PIO to the burden of employers will decrease by 0.5% and the increase of the non-taxable profit share from 15,300 to 16.300, which will certainly relax the economy by nearly 13 billion dinars. We will use these funds to invest, as well as to increase profits of 8% to 15% and to increase pensions by 5.4% in 2020. This budget also has an integral part, which is subsidies, which relate to all areas of social life. Under these subsidies, certain subsidies have increased by 35.4% in the Office for Kosovo and Metohija for 2020 and are seen by implementing programme activities for cultural heritage protection, support for the Serbian Orthodox Church and cultural activities, which have increased by 11%, as well as the programme's economic development incentives for financing economic development, and have increased by 24%. To finance work in the local administration in Kosovo and Metohija, financing the work of educational and health institutions, the construction of reconstruction of housing facilities envisions 6.8 billion dinars. But this isn't all. Other divisions for other ministries have also set out certain resources for the work of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. Thus, in Section 29 concerning the funds of the Ministry of Culture and Information, of 41 cultural institutions, 11 cultural institutions are funded by culture in Kosovo and Metohija that are responsible for the cultural creation of Serbs in our southern province. Also, we are witnessing that three capital projects have been achieved in Kosovo and Metohija this year. One of them is the release of the "Gazivoda" Water Factory, which will ensure a stable water supply of three municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija, which is Zubin Potok, Zvecan and northern Kosovo Mitrovica. The government has allocated 16m euros for the project. The next project, which is also important for Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia in general, is the Sun Valley, which provides for around 1,000 displaced persons in Kosovo and Metohija to be allowed under the project. It's not just a residential space, 300 residential units, it's a village where mail, schools, kindergartens, churches and all that's needed for a normal life. The project is also financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia with 14m euros. We can say that in addition to these two projects, there is a third project that has been implemented with the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is Rajska Banja, which is located in the territory of the Banjska municipality and is, in fact, one of the most modern pools with thermal water and regulation, I can say freely, the water temperature in those pools is regulated via the Internet, which is certainly commendable and given the conditions for life in Kosovo and Metohija, especially for Serbs. Anyone can say what they want and hate as much as they want, but no one can love Serbia and the Serb people more than we can love ourselves. In voting day, as well as members of the SNS, I will support this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64111	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64112	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have before us a draft budget law for 2020. First of all, they commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because here, our session began on November 20th, and we will adopt the budget before the end of this month. And one such issue, such as the budget, we're talking completely relaxed, relaxed, with a smile on our faces, knowing that we've done a great thing for the citizens of Serbia. Also, in early October, we adopted for the first time a positive budget rebalance, which increased salaries and pensions for Serbian citizens and capital investment. The 2020 budget is a developmental one. An even distribution of funds has been implemented and is aimed at increasing the standard of living of citizens. Until now, we have had the process of consolidation of public finances, and this budget marks the start of a national investment plan. The budget was created on the basis of the revenue and savings we have achieved, based on real projections. That is why we are proud to point out that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is sound, stable and sustainable. Thanks to the responsible policy, the difficult reforms we have implemented, we are creating sustainable and real finance, which will ensure a safer future for our children. The government's priority and strategic goal is to make citizens feel better as soon as possible. This goal is achieved, above all, through the development of the economy, by bringing investments, by opening new jobs, and all to achieve the basic task – reducing unemployment. In 2019, we attracted 2,320,000,000 euros in foreign investment, which is 43% higher than in 2018. Serbia is ahead of the number of foreign direct investments. Of course, this would not be an easy task at all, but Serbia's image has been changed thanks to President Alexander Vukic. We have become an economic and political leader in the region, factors of peace and stability, a country that enjoys prominence in the world. This budget will contribute to further development and raising citizens' living standards through increased wages and pensions, as well as investment in education, education, culture, sports infrastructure, environmental protection, of course, continuing investment in infrastructure next year Moravski kodridor, Fruskogorski corridor, Peace Highway, fast traffic station Novi Sad-Ruma, Ruma-Shabac, Shabac-Loznica. Continued investment in security services to improve citizens' security. We have record write-offs for capital investments. We have investments in road and rail infrastructure. We have investments in housing and business construction, traffic and tourism, social policy, population policy, modernisation of the education system. We have a double budget of the Science Fund and young scientists, which I particularly point out, an increase in the budget for the IT sector over 40%. This makes it clear that Serbia is becoming a completely different country. It's done responsibly. First of all, it is thought of the standard of living of citizens, but all on realistic grounds, because fiscal stability of our country must not be compromised in any way. From 2018 to 2020, our economic growth is about 4% on average. Serbia certainly has greater potential and smarter and wise policy, and we can go far further. This isn't an election budget, it's a development budget. There are no populist decisions. We live in a strong, stable fiscally consolidated Serbia, which we want to further strengthen and develop, live in peace and that young people can make their dream come true in their Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64113	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64114	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have followed you to the National Assembly with the Budget Proposal on certain media, to RTS, wherever you appear, your position on this budget and what it did to me, and even now as you expose and speak to the MPs, you get the impression, and not just you, but yesterday and the Prime Minister, and some ministers, as if this is some money you've collected from somewhere, you're going to now deploy it in the way you think it should. In no word did you say that, and of course the general knowledge, the budget of this state is filled with the pockets of our citizens and economic operators. If only you had said from some courtosia, thank you to the citizens of Serbia and you who are poor and you who are at the National Employment Service and you who have zero dinars per month, and you have to pay taxes and all that you need to keep this mob from coming to your door, but it's gone. Another thing that would also sting, as you would say, is that you have not potentiated at all in Serbia's development projects and in the planned GDP growth with a much higher emphasis on domestic sector development and domestic economy. When the budget was rebalanced for 2019, we Serbian radicals indicated that the level of foreign investment, i.e. a subsidy for foreign companies in Serbia is increasing year by year, you said – yes, this brought new jobs, that led to an increase in GDP, but we warned you that it was all on some short routes. Maybe next year you'll say, or some future government if it behaves like that, and we don't want budget projects with so many subsidies for foreign companies anymore, that's good. But in the long run, you, as a man of the profession and other people of the economy, should know that this is not good. How do you think the situation would now be in the most human country in the world, in China, that they don't have their own production and that they don't have such enormous growth based on their own consumption? Start from city to city, from municipality to municipality, next to this import lobby and the crowded market with imported goods and goods of broad consumption and your other, whatever you want to buy, how is it possible to help our domestic manufacturing sector and domestic companies, if they don't have the opportunity to get that kind of subsidies? You'll say, Mr. Mali, that they can do the same as these foreigners for projects and programmes, but that's mostly political and where the ruling party wants to share it with hand and hat. Even one of the businessmen, who has been in the business for more than 20 years, joked and said: I will invite either Prime Minister or Sinisha Mali or Vukic to come to the closing of my private company after 20 years. It is easy for MPs from the authorities who have no personal contact with this, who have never, after all, done anything in their lives from private work, not everyone, honors the exceptions, but if you are an entrepreneur, as I have been for many years besides this job here, I am now on permanent work in the Assembly, but for years I have been an entrepreneur and this agency is currently not working because I am doing the work of a MP, but I also have how to deal with the private sector, such as most of my relatives and friends, you should know that it is hard to provide both salaries and this minimum that you will say there will be 30,022 dinars since January 2020, and for the average, most basic consumer basket in Serbia today, it takes 37,000 dinars. So everything isn't as colorful and beautiful as you want to present these days. The problems are numerous because this re-industrialisation of Serbia and at the expense of how the domestic sector, I think, relative to foreign companies, so if you want to look at what is the biggest pain and the damage of our agrarian. We can say that the shifts as far as the agricultural budget is concerned... Minister Nedimovic boasted of that increase for 2020, but, Mr. Mali, it is all insufficient. We are, first of all, a country with rural populations, with agricultural production that is almost on the extremity, which is due to this dowry, yellow, mafia authorities, but also not to worry about all of you from 2012 to today, which is difficult to restore this cattle fund, which we have depreciated possessions and with all that peasant must look into the sky in 2021, and without the strategic state doing anything, whether the city, whether the flood and what, normally, these climate change is going to be everywhere in the world. If so, why are you reducing in the Water Directorate this much resources, instead of increasing them and making them in the period, as they did in Hungary, in the water streams, when there is a greater flow of water, a better hydrometeorological situation, you create accumulating lakes so that later you can help not burn everything in Serbia from the drought, because food is expensive for an ordinary man. Given that I do not have much time to divide into detail in this principle debate, I will also look back on the tourism sector, and in the context of what my colleagues have said: separations for Egzit, a private company, 65 million. How come it didn't occur to you, Mr. Minister, to raise more money for the Drin regatta in Baja's Garden? It's a national brand. Two million dinars out of the budget alone gets Baja's Garden for the Drink Regatta. How come you didn't want to double it, triple it? There comes between 50 and 100,000 people and that is the natural link between the people on one side of the Drina and the promotion of one of the most beautiful parts of Serbia. To the trumpet assembly in Guchia? Not to mention, there is still no signed contract to build a gondola from Brzeća to Kopalnik, waiting for citizens of Bruce and that part of Serbia for 20 years. It didn't occur to you to plan, so say, but to boast about this Moravian corridor that Zorana and Scott made a 300m-euro business for herself, and what about the southwest part of Serbia where the greatest potential for tourism and livestock development is? If only you had said the highway of Užice – Nova Varoš – the coast will be in perspective, so in the 1970s, the Lim Valley was being made by communists in power some highway and we are not going to leave the whole end of Serbia for mercy and mercy, or just wait for the shepherds from Jadovic to come down to some village after six months, and that's what's wrong with you. So, Mr. Minister, you should have been doing a much better job transposing this budget. All of these items that concern giving for the process of European integration would be deleted and so you would not have a budget deficit, and what is unnecessary would be shifted to these and similar development projects that are necessary to Serbia, and above all to farmers, above all, for greater social giving, primarily for higher student standards, to preserve our cultural and national identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64115	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64116	Thank you. The respected chairman, ministers with a co-worker, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, the budget we are discussing today arrived on time. Each of the MPs had time to study it, place remarks, and perhaps even make their own vision of certain items. Of course, part of the opposition that hasn't entered the O.R. in 325 days, they don't care. They are mostly interested in imaginary affairs, thinking that the people will believe them. Daily research shows what their ratings are like, and for these reasons, they are angry and mostly deal with things that are least relevant to the citizens and the future of Serbia. But I am not talking about them, but about the budget, which is planned, developmental and in all its segments, contributes to better living conditions for citizens, improving their standard of living in the coming year, as well as in the next period. Thanks to reforms launched as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in 2014, which were painful, we today have financial stability, stable growth and a predictable deficit for 2020 of 0.3%. Real GDP growth in the next year, 2020, is projected to be 4%, which says that already today we are another country in Europe after GDP growth, after Hungary. This budget continued investment in infrastructure, such as the construction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway, the Nis-Merdare highway, shares of Nis - Pločnik, highway of shares of Novi Belgrade - Surcin, the construction of the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica road, the reconstruction of the state road of the second row of Novi Pazar - Tutin, the construction of the highway of Belgrade - Sarajevo, the highway of Pojate - Preljina, Preljina - Požega, as well as the part of Surcin - Obrenovac and Belgrade bypass, reconstruction and construction of railway lines, as well as the construction of new bridges, tunnels, expansion of port capacity, construction of new ports. This budget has created a solid waste management programme, as well as water supply and waste water treatment programmes. All of this numbered and projected by the budget is what will make it easier to attract new investments, and thus reduce unemployment, which was 26% in 2012, and today it is 10.03. Every new investment brings economic growth, allowing our pensioners to increase their pensions by 5.4% as early as January 1st, and public sector wages have already been increased. Our country already has an epithet of a safe state, and the city of Belgrade as one of the safest cities. The security of the state is an important element in attracting new investors, but this budget provides both funds for the Ministry of Police and funds for the military. Modernising Serbia's military and police is not a threat to peace, but to a country that all our neighbours, as well as countries in the world, respect and address Serbia today. When it comes to funding provided for in the education budget, they are significant, and the priority in 2020 will be the return of educated personnel who have left Serbia, the modernisation of the education system, the equipment of digital classrooms, as well as the increase of the salaries of educational staff. This budget also envisions new investments in education, new schools, sports halls, new cabinets. As for healthcare, the budget envisions a 40% investment more than in the previous year for the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, as well as the construction of new health cells and the completion of the Clinical Centre Belgrade and Novi Sad. As for tourism, the next year's priority will be visa liberalisation, as a way to attract more tourists. Compared data in 2017 compared to 2016, when it was 26%, 2018 compared to 2017, it was 22% increase to 26% and in 2019 compared to 2018 26% increase compared to those 26 and 22. So it's the arrival of new tourists from all over the world. Respecting the time of my colleagues and our MP groups, I will only take the opportunity to commend the Ministry of Finance, Minister of Small, as well as the Government, and all thanks to the energy of our president, which is the most responsible that investments in this year have increased by 33% compared to the previous year. That is why I call on my colleagues to accept the 2020 budget in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64117	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64118	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the two main objectives of the 2020 budget are to increase the standard of living for Serbian citizens and increase economic growth. The budget is developmental, well-planned and even the biggest critics, who are becoming less and less justified, have not been able to comment on this budget, on the draft of this budget, as are not even part of the opposition that false affairs and boycott parliament have been unsuccessfully trying to put Serbia's economic progress, which is evident both in real life and in numbers and on the basis of which the government receives the highest recognitions from domestic and international experts and institutions. There were many skeptics who did not believe in reforms initiated by the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, led by President Aleksandar Vukic. I would like to remind, because of Serbian citizens, that the key problem was then a high deficit, a high public debt and high unemployment. Today, economic opportunities in Serbia are incomparably different. Finance has been stabilised, the average salary will be 500 euros very soon, pensions have increased by 5.4% and what is most important, pensions are no longer allocated to a third of the budget, as was the previous period. The labour price has increased by three thousand dinars, and that is the biggest increase in minimum earnings ever. Unemployment in the second quarter of this year was 10.3%, and only in 2013 it was 25%. We also had a positive budget rebalance and what is most important for the citizens of Serbia, a new investment cycle will be exposed in 10 to 15 days. According to the 2020 budget projection, the deficit is 0.3%. The low level of deficits allows for a reduction in public debt, which was stopped in 2015 and which was at 78% just in 2015. Today is a public debt of 51%, and it is planned to be reduced to 50.3% in the following year. When we compare public investments that amounted to 220 billion dinars in 2019, and in the 2020 budget proposal, they will be 260 billion dinars, it undoubtedly says, and that the further GDP growth will be 4%, and more likely, that Serbian citizens will feel the effects of the planned budget and the stabilisation of finance even more in the coming year. In the area of infrastructure over the past five years, 320 km has been built, this year only 105. So, Corridor 10 is completed, continues to build Corridor 11 in the following year, and that is the part of Moravsky, the Frushkogorska piece, the highway to Republika Srpska. It also invests heavily in railway infrastructure, in continuing construction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, as well as in the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Nish railway. The information the prime minister made yesterday in explaining the budget, that there were 3.5 billion direct investments in Serbia, which is more than for the entire region, speaks of Serbia's leadership position and the progress we have made in the area of economy and economic development. Reforms in the field of digitisation and education were the main part of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exhibition, and they are now part of us. They're visible in practice. It is very important that a Science Fund is established and that its initial capital is one billion dinars. I believe he will encourage many young people in Serbia to stay and bring others back. The changes through dual education are one of the reasons for the progress of the economy in Serbia and therefore the most powerful companies in Serbia, In the next period, in my deep opinion, we need to show even more strongly that knowledge is a comparative advantage of Serbia and to continue to increase the quality of schools with strong criteria for the licensing and training of teachers. It is very important that the Environment Fund has been increased through a budget proposal from 23.7 billion to 59.4 billion dinars. Our reserves are growing, the largest so far is 30.4 tons of gold. In the area of health care, the amount of resources allocated for the treatment of rare diseases is increased to 2.4 billion dinars in the following year. Just to remind you that until a few years ago, there was no such thing as this Fund and the sick children for their political campaign. I can't help but mention that the budget for the city of Belgrade is 143 billion dinars. The average salary in the city of Belgrade is 600 euros, which is the largest budget in the city of Belgrade so far. I remind the citizens of Serbia, even though you ministers said that the debt you inherited as mayor of Belgrade was 1.2 billion, that during the time you were mayor of that debt was halved and that this is the basic reason why those who left you this debt, before you, cannot forgive you, and what they did with their team, of course, is for every praise and is good for the citizens of Serbia. In addition to Belgrade's further development plan, I would like to say that in 2020 the city of Belgrade will return 20,389,545 euros of old debts. In the coming period, in my opinion, there are also a few key challenges ahead of us, to fight even stronger and stronger to increase the birth rate, to keep young people, to continue to invest in stimulating private entrepreneurship and to increase our capacities in the area of human resources in all institutions, in ministries, in local self-government. Let me get this straight. It is no doubt that our country is becoming stronger, more stable, stronger, different, and that the key feature of this planned budget is the even distribution of fiscal space. In voting day, I will gladly, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, vote in favour of this draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64119	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64120	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been announced that today is the 325th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, the work for which citizens chose them, and the work for which they receive their salary neatly. Unfortunately, the vast majority of them are constantly working in the National Assembly, to make things worse, and thus in the best way show, in fact, their relationship with the function they perform, towards the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. Chairman, I expected that at least today, when we are discussing the 2020 draft budget, as the most important act the Assembly adopts, then, that at least today the MPs of that part of the opposition will be allowed to attend the meeting of the National Assembly. But obviously I had too many expectations in that sense. Instead, they chose to hold press conferences here in the National Assembly's hall yesterday and today, and who knows which times they repeated recycled and who knows which times they convinced the texts of Milovan Brkic from "Tabloid", trying to construct some kind of affair. In fact, the entire campaign and Boška Obradovića, Yankeea, is his new nickname, since he is a favorite guest of the American Embassy, and Marinika Tepic or cobanluk, as her real last name is, therefore, their entire campaign is, in fact, a daily convincing of texts that have been published in that "Tabloid", which are in the ranks of the world's most famous conspiracy theories. And then they're nervous when Serbian citizens don't believe them. Of course they don't believe them. As much as "N1" and "New" and "Today" and "Time" and "NIN" and all other media are trying, of course the citizens of Serbia do not believe them. The very fact, chairman, that the National Assembly, on the proposal of the SNS parliamentary group chief Mr Martinovic, has doubled the time to discuss the 2020 draft budget, tells us that the aim is to make the debate more transparent and meaningful and to inform citizens about how the draft budget was created and how money will be spent, and in my opinion, the budget is well-designed, balanced, has its development component, but has its own social component. What should be pointed out is that there will undoubtedly be a further increase in the standards of Serbian citizens, as well as economic growth, and this is very clear in the draft budget. So, I also think about increasing public sector wages and increasing pensions of 5.4% and improving health care, modernising the education system, better conditions for education, investment in culture, sport, defence resources, etc. What should also be pointed out are the record allocations for capital investments. So, as we've heard, if I'm not mistaken, 260 billion dinars, which is about 4.5% of GDP. All other investments in infrastructure, and the Moravski Corridor, the Fruskogorski Corridor, the highway to BiH and Republika Srpska, the highway of peace towards Drac, the fast roads of Ruma, Shabac, Loznica, the fast railways of Belgrade-Budapest and everything else envisaged. What is particularly important to point out is that all this would not have been possible if we had not implemented fiscal consolidation measures on the proposal of Alexander Vukic, then prime minister, which led to the recovery of public finances and the recovery of our economy. There is a key difference between us and the former regime's parties, which, I say, as they exercised power, brought Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy. So, commercial loans, overpriced loans were taken to increase pensions, but before the elections. They destroyed hundreds of companies, destroyed hundreds of factories, left hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Responsibility is the key word between us and them. We are today correcting the catastrophic mistakes they have made and returning their overpriced loans, recovering Serbia in each segment, and citizens will feel it very soon during the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64121	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64122	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today it is indeed a pleasure to talk about the proposal for a bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget, because the budget is developmental. The budget was created on the basis of the revenues and savings the state has made, primarily by responsible policy. By responsible policy, we are proud of our government, the government of the Republic of Serbia and our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thanks to responsible policy, thanks to heavy and not popular measures, Serbia's reforms are now a healthy, orderly, modern state. A stable and sustainable budget, which means that we have created a safer future for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but above all for the future of our children. The priority and primary goal was to improve the lives of all citizens of Serbia. We worked really hard to get the best investors, both foreign and domestic, to create new jobs, and we worked on it all these years ago. Thanks to what the yellow Dosmanian company and those who are boycotting the work of the Assembly today, but do not boycott the salaries they receive neatly, left us in 2012, a devastated Serbia, today Serbia is healthy, all thanks to one responsible policy, a policy led by Aleksandar Vucic. The fact that in 2019 we attracted over two billion euros of foreign investment says more than anything else, which means that it is about 43% more than in 2018. All of this is due to Mr. Vukic, who regained Serbia's reputation in the world, simply, Serbia is no longer the way they looked at us until 2012. I would like to pay particular attention to the proposal on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget for the Ministry of Health, given that I am a doctor by profession. What makes me particularly happy is that this budget is increased by about 73.3% and is close to 33 billion dinars. This really means a lot, because the most resources are planned to build and equip health institutions, to obtain medical equipment and provide adequate space, through investments and investment maintenance of health institutions. On this occasion, I would also like to add that, as I come from Kruševec, responsible politics and local self-government, and to my city primarily responsible SNS policy, it has attracted many citizens living in the diaspora to contribute to their donations, so in the past few years, the pear hospital has actually received a large, large number of donations. This is due to Kruševljanin, our great Mr Bratislav Gasic, who is still working for his Kruševac and is trying to make sure that Kruševac is really the most beautiful city in Serbia, which in the last few years is really becoming. Of course, with the support of Alexander Vukic, our president, who made it possible for factories such as Cromberg and Šubert to come to Kruševac, not only for those who were, but also for new engines. Then, I would add that those factories that were closed by 2012 are now working on bad privatisations, that's "Rubin", then "14. October, which is now owned by the Czechoslovak Group, then the DS Smith, then the Last Corporation and the others, not to mention. When it comes to the Ministry of Health, what is commendable is that Minister Loncar visited Rasinski County in the last two months, all the health institutions of Rasin County, and expressed satisfaction with the procurement of both X-rays and ultrasounds, sanitary vehicles, but also looked at the needs of all centres for the employment of new doctors, then medical staff, nurses. Also, our citizens must be reminded, because it is still forgotten, the yellow company, those who boycott the work of the Assembly, have left behind failure when it comes to health care. Inadequate policy, inadequate personnel plans, a large number of doctors of certain specialities have been neglected, so no specialization has been assigned, so at one point it threatened to hit us to lose some staff. But fortunately, this government, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic, are also concerned about it, so through the amendments to certain laws we have come to the fact that, behold, new specialists are already arriving and there is work and space to work in all the clinics. What I want to add is that, when it comes to my city, and really as a local patriot and someone who loves Kruševac, I have to say that both local self-governments are doing well, and above all, my city that has inherited a 700 million-dollar debt in that period is now positive, now still working, planning funds and for 2019 a record amount has been planned in the last ten years and the dynamics of execution is even 73% on the nine-month report, which means that it is expected from the SNS that leads the city to be such a thing. I would add that the former government, fortunately today's opposition, which is not in this hall, which boycotts work, but again reminds me, does not boycott wages, has shown its true face in the past few days, and as many messages of support have come to our president for a quick recovery and for good health, they have continued to rejoice in other people's torment. But what is very important is that Mr. Vukic is working for Serbia's benefit, that he raised Serbia from the ashes and that all Serbian citizens who will continue to give him huge support are grateful. Dear colleagues of this so-called so-called. The opposition can also learn something, and that the fight is not done that way, but one constructive criticism can be to see the fight in the programs, in the plans, in the results on the ground, not by making up lies and gossip. What I am particularly pleased with is that the previous few days have shown huge support to the President of the Republic and we are all aware that he is working hard on Serbia's development and modernisation and that he put Serbia first and above all Serbian citizens. That sentence -- I'm going to give my life for Serbia -- is really not a phrase. That's quite clear to everyone. The president is really fighting and working for his country, as you can see. In the end, the message is that we will continue to fight for our Serbia, that we will continue to support our President of the Republic and our Government and that great battles and even greater victories are yet to come, and the haters can still hate us, but Serbia knows perfectly who it is going with and who it is winning with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64123	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64124	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, the proposal for a 2020 budget is a realistic plan that the government of the Republic of Serbia should implement in order to further raise the quality of life of Serbian citizens and create the basis for the continued progress of the Republic of Serbia and the lives of citizens in all aspects. The government of the Republic of Serbia led the SNS in front of the National Assembly put the draft budget where, based on conservative projections on the revenue side and the historic low deficit in the budget, which has never been 0.5% or around 30 billion dinars before now, with a projection of real growth in economic activity in 2020 of around 4%, a steady distribution of financial space will be achieved to increase the standard of living seen through salary increases, ranging from 8% and 10%, and 15% for nurses and health technicians. This measure will be supported by an increase in the non-taxable part of the salary to 16300 dinars, as well as a reduction in contributions to pension and disability insurance on the employer's burden. Also, by applying the Swiss model, projected growths of 5.4% for pensioners who have been bearers of financial reform burdens in recent years and whom we owe today for the macroeconomic stability of our country. There is an increase in minimum earnings to 30,022 dinars, and it is also important to abolish the Law on the reduction of earnings in public enterprises, the founder of local self-government units, which did not have the opportunity to raise salaries in the past year. I would particularly refer to the construction of roads on the territory of the city of Belgrade and the township of Surcin. The 2020 budget plans to continue construction on Corridor E-763, today known as "Milos Veliki", on the part of the road to Novi Belgrade - Surcin. Three billion dinars are planned, and budgeting can see the planned funds for next year, which are planned to invest in this traffic facility. I would like to point out that final works are being carried out at this time on the section of the Corridor E-763 road from Surcin to Obrenovac, whose opening is scheduled for December 19th of this year. On a concrete case, we can see that the realisation of our President Alexander Vukic's clear vision and the construction of the roads are initially driven by economic activity on routes passing newly built roads and that they serve to faster connect people and attract capital. By building this section of the road and ending it, GO Surchin will become one of the best organized, i.e. Transport-organised and economically most perspective municipalities in Belgrade. In addition to this thesis, there is an increasing interest in land for construction after the passage of the road "Milos Veliki", as well as an increase in the value of land suitable for construction. Construction of inclusion on the E-763 road near Jakov from a local road in the period until the construction of a stake from New Belgrade to Surcin is realized. The construction of this trailer on the highway "Milos Veliki" was initiated by representatives of GO Surcin, because they assessed the huge potential and benefits this project carries for the people of Surcin. The realization was agreed with representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. In addition to the highway in the immediate vicinity of the inclusion, there is land that is scheduled for industrial construction, area 220 hectares, by plan of detailed regulation. The proximity of the road and the good connection with other highways will be an additional initial factor for investment in this part and the creation of an additional economic swing for the entire municipality. This is how Alexander Vukic thought when he launched the project, and this is how the work was accepted by the people who run Go Surcin. Unfortunately, not everyone in our city and our Republic is equally committed to the progress and development of the community. A man who is a favorite of Dragan Gilas and spokeswoman for Gilas' destructive policy, former president of the Surcin municipality, Vojislav Janosevic, tried to deceive the citizens of Surcin by dividing flyers who, of course, advocated something he missed out on when he had the chance. His failures were corrected by representatives of GO Surcin, led by the SNS, who initiated the construction of inclusion on the highway "Milos Veliki" from Jacob. The initiative committee, led by Janosevic in a text that reportedly advocates citizens in fact shows enormous hatred for everything Alexander Vukic and SNS have done, says, "Let's not let that highway make it difficult for us to access the fields, increase noise and pollution," without looking at the benefits that the road itself brings. He goes on to say, "If the Belgrade Progressive Socialist Authority directly or through the Surcin municipality," not knowing that the city municipality's competence does not include capital investments of this type, "it does not build loops, it should launch an initiative to secede from Belgrade". I guess he's trying to become some "surcian Haradinaj". The words "senseless, someone's unholy interests, building expensive overpasses" are the words that are repeated in this text. I guess he's associated with them at a time when they ran the state like that. An scheduled protest rally that was not held because none of the citizens showed up because they did not want to work against their children's interest in the interests of Janosevic and Gilas. To stay on the road to construction and progress of the state that has been projected through the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget, I will support the draft budget in the day of voting, as well as colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-21-0.u64125	Thank you. This discussion would end today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We are continuing the principle of a Single Search on the 1st Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2020, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the National Employment Service for 2020 and the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2020. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government have been invited to attend with their associates. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
