ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57842	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall. We continue to work and move on to a unique search – Consideration of the 2018 Work Report with the Report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its Implementation, which was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 13 June 2019 and the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government from 17 June 2019. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to attend the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency Dragan Sikimic, V.D. Assistant Director in the Sector for conflict of interest and lobbying Verka Atanaskovic and V.D. Assistant Director in the Prevention and Integration Sector Marijana Obradović. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the 2018 Work Report with the Report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 13 June 2019 and the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government from 17 June 2019. Does the proposing official, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency Dragan Sikimic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57843	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the Agency submitted the ninth annual report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018. The document before you presents the results we have achieved over the past year, the challenges we are facing in our work, as well as recommendations for improving both the normative framework for fighting corruption and strengthening the capacity of the Anti-Corruption Agency. As you know, the Agency has significant competences of preventive, control and supervisory nature. The prevention of corruption is a key segment of the Agency's operation despite the repression that is in the jurisdiction of other state authorities, no doubt the pillar of a successful fight against each country's corruption. For this reason, appropriate co-operation and coordination with all competent authorities and relevant actors, both at national and international level, is essential. I would highlight exceptional co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, the State Auditing Institution, the National Assembly, special departments for the control of corruption, prosecutors and courts, as well as other competent state bodies, independent bodies, civil society organisations and media. In its actions, the Agency often initiates the operation of other state authorities, which is significant but less visible, in view of the legal provisions and confidentiality of the procedure. I also take the opportunity to point out that the Anti-Corruption Agency has received support from the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia in terms of capacity building, including higher budgets, given the new and extended powers it will have at the beginning of the application of the Law on Lobbying and the Anti-Corruption Law. In addition, the fact that the relevant committees of the National Assembly have approved a new Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the Agency’s Anti-Corruption Service, as well as the appropriate filling of jobs, also states. I would like to express my gratitude and satisfaction with the fact that international partners through development assistance instruments provide continued support in the work and improvement of the Agency's human and technical capacities through development aid instruments. In the previous year and this year, the Agency successfully implemented and implemented projects and activities with the support of the European Union in Serbia, the OSCE Mission in Serbia, the USAID and the United States Embassy. Given that detailed information and statistics are shown in the 2018 Annual Report, I will only list some of them on this occasion. In the domain of the report on the property and income of officials, the Agency submitted 16 criminal charges in the previous year for the existence of a reasonable doubt that the officials did not report the property or gave false information on the property, with the intention of concealing it. In addition, the Agency submitted 13 reports to the competent prosecutors and other state authorities on the grounds of the existence of a reasonable doubt that officials whose assets and revenues were subject to verification have committed another criminal offence. When it comes to conflict of interest, I would point out as a positive trend a high percentage of the behaviour of officials, 93.33%, according to the final executive solutions of the Agency which have rejected requests for more public functions, i.e. the performance of another job. By a slightly higher percentage of 96.43%, we can boast in the domain of the competent authority's behaviour on the final executive decisions of the agency, which have established the termination of another public function by law enforcement. There has been an increase in the number of demands of officials to give an opinion on doubts about the existence of conflicts of interest, which are 87.8% higher than in 2017, which is certainly the result of intensive training that the Agency is conducting, which is aimed at strengthening the awareness of the functionors about the importance of this mechanism, prevention, corruption, as well as improving their integrity. In general, with regard to all the solutions made and the measures given, as well as opinions given, I point out that most of the officials respected the agency's decisions and that the opinions given by the agency are respected. What, on the other hand, is a challenge in the work, concerns a small number of cases in which the competent authorities who have chosen, appointed or appointed officials do not execute and respect the recommendations of the resolution agency, which, above all, has been observed at lower levels of government. The majority of the authorities who do not respect the Agency's decisions, as a reason for not acting, states that they have found that there is no conflict of interest, although it is solely the agency responsible for this. Such behaviour does not contribute to further improving the rule of law through consistent law enforcement, I would also point to the Agency's activities in the area of prevention, corruption at local level. The agency developed a model of the anti-corruption plan, as well as a model of the province's anti-corruption plan, based on analyses, samples and forms of corruption at local and regional level. These plans represent documents identifying competences, areas and processes and procedures, which risk the creation of different forms of corruption and which propose ways to manage these risks, i.e. the way in which they are removed. The implementation of action plans and the establishment of adequate mechanisms to monitor their implementation of the local self-government unit, i.e. the authorities and services at the province level, strengthen the resilience of corruption to irregularities and misuse of public resources, i.e. strengthen the capacity to protect, represent and achieve the public interest of citizens. In the past year, the establishment of a system of support for local self-government units for the construction and adoption of a local anti-corruption clan and the formation of a monitoring body, the implementation of this document. Quality control and objectivity of integrity plans in 24 institutions and for different systems, justice, education, health care, social policy, local self-government has been carried out. In the seventh cities in the Republic of Serbia, reports have been drafted in control of recommendations to improve the quality of adopted integrity plans on the institutions caused. In the area of international co-operation, the Agency successfully completed a tweeting project, prevention and the fight against corruption, after two and a half years, exceptional co-operation with partners from the Republic of Italy and the Kingdom of Spain. The project invested the EU worth 2m euros. We are also pleased to point out that the Agency was elected one of the two vice-presidents of the Network of Corruption Prevention Institutions, which was formed in October 2018, is currently made up of anti-corruption institutions from 19 countries. The network is chaired by the National Anti-Corruption Agency of the Republic of Italy, and the second vice-president is the Anti-Corruption Agency of the Republic of France. The purpose of setting up a network is to exchange experiences and good practices in the area and prevention and fight corruption. I would also point out that the Republic of Serbia has since March of this year been no longer among the countries that are in a globally unsatisfactory regime in view of the recommendations of GREC, the anti-corruption group, the Council of Europe in the fourth round of evaluations covering prevention and corruption in relation to MPs, judges and prosecutors. Such success is the result of commitment to the work of the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the national strategy and action plan, one of the responsibilities of the Anti-Corruption Agency, supervision of the implementation of the anti-corruption and action plan strategy and the sector of all action plans, as well as an opinion on the implementation of these documents. A report on the implementation of a strategy that was submitted to the National Assembly in March 2019 as part of the annual report on work, the ninth such report on the implementation of strategic documents for the fight against corruption submitted by the Agency to the National Assembly and the sixth one relating to the 2013 Strategy. The report covers the conduct of the public authorities in last year on the basis of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the revised Action Plan for its implementation for the period from 2016 to 2018. The aim of the report is to systematicise in one place as many available data on the implementation of these documents over the past year, to give an assessment of their performance, to point out the challenges that have arisen and to make recommendations for their overcoming. The specificity of this report is that it also contains a review of the implementation of all activities of the registered action plan for the implementation of the national Anti-Corruption Strategy, which expired in 2018. In the opinion of the Agency, further strengthening of the capacity of the entities responsible for the implementation of complex measures requiring basic planning, preparation and internal coordination of the implementation of the activities is necessary. The agency will continue to work to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of both existing and new extended competences with the aim of even more successful implementation of the promotion of corruption prevention mechanisms and the strengthening of public sector integrity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57844	Thank you, Mr. Sikimic. The word is by professor Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57845	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Sikimic and his associates, honourable MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Budgets, Finance, the control of the spending of public funds, along with the Committee on Justice, discuss reports on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We had opportunities to talk about the new Act on the Agency, to see that it was really necessary for many changes to be made for the simple reason that Serbia made a lot of progress when it came to fighting corruption and implementing the strategy, and this is best seen in what the recommendations of GREC, one expert commission whose member and Mr Sikimic, from three years ago when we only six recommendations were implemented in our legislation, from 13, have now come to ten, compared to 13, and what is within the competence of the National Assembly came to a minimum. On 13 June 2019, we had the opportunity to discuss this report, but we opened a debate on many issues that hit us somewhere in society and whether the Anti-Corruption Agency adequately responds to these problems in society, and how much a practical system is set up when it comes to state officials. We could see that from last year's report. What we were also interested in was how much money was spent on this kind of work and what can be seen on the basis of the financial resources and the capacity that you have that you have done a lot. Based on the report you filed with the judiciary, I would like to present to the MPs some statistics for 2018, how much is done for the simple reason that you will see that the burden has fallen somewhere, when we are talking about irregularities at all, by taking action on the MPs. Why am I saying that? Because we think that we are most exposed to the court of the public precisely because of the transparency of your agency's work. On the other hand, I think it's a good indicator to all other officials in society that if we as MPs, after all, have no problem with that and that we publish control and our property in general what is the obligation of us as MPs to the Anti-Corruption Agency, then it is the obligation of all other officials as it is on a republican level, especially at the local level to simply respect the legal frameworks in this area. On the annual plan where last year's verification was carried out, the report said that the property check, revenue for 2018, was made for 317 officials. The 317 officials include ministers, state secretaries, ministerial assistants, MPs, senior court presidents, prosecutors, public prosecutors, that a review of the report was carried out for seven officials who were the subject and the extraordinary checks launched last year. When you look at the data, you will see that the report check was carried out for 275 officials who were checked during 2018. Well, here's the results for my colleagues. I'm talking about the republic's level. 186 cases, one against the minister, 36 against the MPs, one against the advisors of the President of the Republic, 76 against the judges and former judges, eight against the prosecutors and the deputy prosecutors, two against the Secretary of State, eight assistants, and V.D. Assistant ministers, 34 presidents and board members, 19 directors and deputy directors, as well as against one university rector. At the local level, 116 proceedings were initiated against the mayors, 12 against the mayors, sub-secretaries and V.D. Secretary of Administration, Units of Local Self-Government, 34 members of the Council, Unit of Local Self-Government 18, Deputy President of the Municipality, 46 against the Director, Deputy Director of Public Enterprises and Institutions, one case against the President of the Election Commission and the Management Board of Society Members, and 310 measures have been said where we are talking about the violation of the Act on the Agency. So this is statistics when we talk about the Agency's work on officials, law enforcement, when it comes to reporting property, and when it comes to the obligations of everyone to file a verification of assets that are subject to both criminal and criminal liability. But what's important to us is to say, for the Finance Committee, who asked how much money was actually spent by the Agency, since she was doing a responsible job like this. We received information from the Committee that a total of 364 million 266 000 dinars have been defined, that programme activities relating to corruption itself and control in the function of preventing corruption are 207 million and 126 000, that training projects in the field of fighting corruption three million and 461 thousand and that raising public awareness is three million 731 thousand dinars in collecting information for alternative sources provided by the strategic plan and the framework for fighting corruption around millions and 461 thousand, millions and 381 000 dinars are given to civil society members, then eight million and 514 thousand dinars for monitoring regular elections for city council members, do not forget that we will surely have Republic elections next year, regular and local elections, so that this amount of funds will be much higher for IPA projects from 2013, 118 million and 7.5 million dinars spent from the Republic of Serbia. According to this data, what we can see, at the arrival of the new director last year, we practically have changes in both financial capacities and human capacities and that before the entry into office of the Director of the DRI has carried out control of the functioning of the Agency and come up with a report that there are no irregularities, or that irregularities have not been found, that it has received a positive report, which is very good. What is important to say is that the increase in the 2018 budget compared to 2017 by 18 million 642 thousand, that the new 49 jobs for the Agency were approved, thus strengthening the Agency's work and that 100% of the budget implementation was carried out. What we have a chance to hear is that there are certain recommendations from the Agency that further work should be carried out, since we as MPs have noticed that in your work you have difficult circumstances because there is no coordination with other institutions such as the DRI, such as the budgetary inspection, which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, or mechanisms on which we can determine where corruption works exist, where there are reasonable doubts about the initiation of the procedure and what about the past. Because we have procedures that aren't conducted in front of the Agency, because I don't think there are mechanisms with which you run certain procedures, and they're public record. I mean, questions of the Party Finance Act are being asked, that certain political parties are legally implementing funding based on the budget funds they receive under the MPs, based on the grant contracts. We have had examples in both presidential elections and local elections, to see that there are some cash flows from abroad, which are paid to the jury accounts of citizens who go to the million-euro elections and there has never been a question of where eight million euros from, say, Vuk Jeremic for the campaign he led for the presidential election, from where Sasa Radulovic for the republical elections when they were paid directly to people who were working on the internet campaign. So, no way to control it by the state authorities. The auditor tried to monitor certain cash flows, but that's only possible if it monitors public revenues. So these are the revenues that go through certain budget accounts. So now we're talking to you here about some phenomena in a society that doesn't exist, about the inability to be sanctioned in a certain way, that is, to initiate procedures for which there are reasonable doubts and obvious evidence. We also have international affairs relating to Vuk Jeremic, who has collaborated, and where world courts judge international corruption, and we cannot say here now, and that as an institution, you come out with certain procedures based on this knowledge. It's devastating to us. As MPs, we don't have a problem with that, or that our property is being controlled, or that it's being reported. If an old car is sold that doesn't have a greater value than a million dinars, if it's late with that application to do it again, but we have a problem with the public knowing the truth about those who have assets like Mr. Gilas, who reported to your Agency, which has 1,641 square squares of living space recorded in his name. So the question is, what was in the past? We can't do a certain job at full capacity now, because we finally got people who are going to do it and the budget funds, and you as the new director who are ready to face all the challenges, and to say that the past doesn't exist, because from that past we see that someone is planning their future, going back to the state institutions, and trying to forget all this, how he actually came to the money of Serbia's citizens and on the back of this people, on the basis of his budget management, in such a way that his private companies simply filled with the money of Serbian citizens. That's what's the big problem for us. What you have given as a series of recommendations on how to move towards improving the work of the Agency itself and improving the anti-corruption strategy, that is what we need, that a new strategy should be adopted and that will certainly be a big job for both your and our and the Justice Ministry. I think that together, we really need to get going and shape it. What's important and what it's going to take is to adopt a new law on the financing of political parties, or activities, that's what I'm telling you about what problems we actually have in our country. We will need coordination, and you have listed everything in your recommendations, and we thank you for systemizing all these requirements in a certain way, how to get certain institutions such as DRI, and we have had the opportunity to talk in the past two weeks and on public procurement and on the issue of spending public funds in a certain way in public, fully open, how to coordinate all institutions, and yours in a certain way and indeed exercise cross-control over all entities in a policy society, and when it comes to the area of corruption. It is important for us to adopt a national strategy. It is important that you really help strengthen your infrastructure, and when it comes to the human structure and when it comes to the financial structure, it means projects. It is also necessary, due to these European integrations, that the Action Plan, which applies to Chapter XXIII, be complete with that area that you cover. The law on lobbying, we have discussed the law here in the Serbian Parliament, passed and voted. What is very important, since, as well as an MP, one of the MPs of the Council of Europe delegation, we have something to praise that we have really made progress when it comes to the Law on lobbying and GRECO recommendations. It is our obligation to participate, simply, together with you, because in your jurisdiction it is the adoption of so-called. Rules implementing the Lobby Act. This is what is on your initiative and the OSCE, one workshop that should be held next week, where you have also invited the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Administrative Committee, to participate in this workshop, to hear what the agency is proposing, what we, as MPs, see as important to bring it in, and it is very important for us to present this extremely correct, extremely accurate, in order to know what this is about. Because even when we're talking about the Anti-Corruption Act and, say, we're reporting our property, maybe somebody doesn't know how to fill out that form, but it has to be known. It's important that we can fill out what our data really is. Whether the form is properly filled out or not, your employees can help us, because we think it is important that we have the result of the application of the property, which applies in general to the legislation itself and the implementation of the law. So this also applies to the implementation of the Lobby Law itself. It is important for us to know what limits must be respected when it comes to participants in this process, when it comes to lobbying. So, in public, they're really well presented and not everyone who participates is saying -- so we didn't know we were allowed to do it or we weren't allowed to do it. So it's up to you to have that educational character, not just a criminal. We know that there are certain penalties, that the level of information and punishment of individuals has been raised, but notifying the public is very important. In the end, I would say that your participation in committee sessions and public hearings, which we organised together with the DRI, in local self-governments, which we had last year in Subotica, is of great importance to us and I think we will continue to invite you to these public hearings, precisely for local officials and for the public, where we want to hear all these changes that you have to bear with the adoption of a new law, because in these new changes, I think that the officials at the local level should be most informed. We saw it on the basis of the Report and the State Auditor and you, essentially, that somewhere in the local place, that the awareness of local officials is in a small volume precisely because somewhere those of those day-to-day, I guess, jobs and co-operation with citizens don't pay that much attention to what their legal obligations are when it comes to different aspects of the Law on Public Finance Management, the Anti-Corruption Act. For that certain local self-governments that have awareness of it, they have, even, strategic plans to fight corruption at local level, and these plans have been adopted by the parliaments, but there are those who do not, who simply do not want to deal with it or have not had enough capacity, as you have not. So I'm saying that it would really be good if in a certain way, based on your educational work, you went down to local self-government, you held certain gatherings that you would really inform people about what their obligation is and what needs to be done. Finally, I would like to commend the new way the agency has functioned over the past year when we are talking in general about your co-operation with the committees responsible and your initiative that, simply, all three committees participate in the work together when it comes to some strategic documents. What can be seen based on statistics according to your assessment of 250 of the activities examined, statistics say that in the past year 37 activities are consistent with indicators relating to the Action Plan, 60% is not, and 3% of the Agency has not even evaluated. For us, this information is interesting because it shows this lack of coordination in the implementation of the coordination body for the implementation of the Action Plan and another reason is that there is no coordination when it comes to implementing complex measures. I therefore propose that the National Assembly, since it is in charge of your work, indeed, with the help of these three committees try to make a joint proposal for a programme with you in order to really coordinate in the future, and to implement the conclusion of all the institutions that are in the power of the Assembly, because it is necessary that we work together in this area. There's a lot of problems, there's a lot of challenges, as you say, but I think that's a big part of the problem, and even based on this statistics, it's already solved, but there's a lot of things still waiting for us to solve. We need to comply with European standards, and on the other hand, society needs to learn a certain kind of self-control and fight corruption. And, on the other hand, we should all participate in this in an adequate way. In voting day, I think it's in the interest of all the MPs to support this kind of report, because it says that we support the report you've given, your recommendations that you've made for the following year, because we think you've just given them in this year, so we should get into the next report, and we hope that you will until you've written your new report and revised them. We think we'll do a lot this year. We thank you for this kind of cooperation, and we hope that in the future, really all these problems that we've been telling you about, in an adequate way, you'll help us solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57846	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Does Mr. Petar Petrovic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Alexander Stevanović. Here you go, colleague Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57847	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, the esteemed directors of the Anti-Corruption Agency with colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We have a report that describes in some detail the activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency itself, as well as how far we have come to meet the measures of the Action Plan. We have an abundance of material about what the results are. The report itself is properly written, we can't say that anything is silent, beautiful, painted in gray. Report which report is correct. The report itself shouldn't have added anything special, it's done professionally. However, the point is not only to discuss what the report is in itself, but to learn some lessons and to look at problems, the challenges that Serbia faces from several different angles. One angle is the report itself, which is the basis for discussing how the Anti-Corruption Agency works. What is the final output of every debate is essentially how we as a whole are dealing with corruption, because the Agency is not the only one who needs to fight in this process, it is visible because of its role as the fourth branch of government, but far from doing all the work, which does not mean that the work done by the Agency is not very important. If you start subjectively, from your own experiences with the Agency, I find these experiences fantastic, because whenever there was any slightest doubt, the Agency has contacted in a reasonable way the doubts have been removed and I can only say my compliments because it saves no one from MPs and what in exchange documents doubt can diverge, or it becomes a question for some other authorities if the doubt remains so established and after the exchange of documents. On my part, the recommendation, without the intention of affecting the way the fourth branch of government works, is to continue, because fighting corruption is important for the simple reason that corrupt societies can't grow quickly, and yet, on the other hand, growth is a prerequisite for corruption to decrease. As much as someone didn't like it, countries with low average wages, which they still have, I'd say, too big a country, they're necessarily more susceptible to corruption. Also, you have some institutional heritage and cultural characteristics of southern societies, so what can I say is probably harder to run the Anti-Corruption Agency in Serbia than for example. in Denmark, which is not new. We've also received a set of recommendations adopted by the National Assembly's competent board and I can't say anything that the recommendations are in place. But from the recommendations themselves, it is much more important, however, how we will implement these recommendations, what will look like a strategy to fight corruption for the next five-year or even a 10-year period. I wouldn't mind if it was longer, but if there was a review of what action plans would look like next year. This is a fundamental issue that should arise precisely from these recommendations that have been made through the joint work of the Assembly and the Agency. Prevention remains important and the Agency has a pretty strong role to play here precisely by controlling preventively and having reaction mechanisms when there is a reasonable doubt that corruption has occurred. Although it sometimes seems to be in some way, almost like Dervisa and death, imposing suspicions that are once unfounded, I think it's a cost and an inconvenience if someone goes through doubt, and that doubt develops much less than the possibility that corruption might pass, as well as other crimes, since you by nature things will determine that sometimes behind corruption I would say sometimes much more serious crimes. Also, recommendations to improve the law are essential, especially transparency. Transparency is the basis of everything and detailed reporting by state authorities on each spent dinar is one of the best mechanisms to fight corruption. That's why it's never enough to repeat it, just detailed reports of every dinar with an impact analysis and what those who are a little more time-consuming project management, with an impact analysis, English is an intact, are the right way to go forward in the fight against corruption. Also, with every change of laws, even though people who change laws expect to have better people living in one country, we don't just suffer from it and sometimes forget what real impulses are. The only way to reduce essential corruption is to reduce the number of opportunities corruption occurs. So people will try to break the law if the law costs them, and the sanctions that are threatened or not high, or there's little chance of being sanctioned, because a lot of people do that. There is a greater responsibility for the National Assembly when it adopts laws to reflect on how many points of corruption it creates. The more you want to get into the spontaneous relationships of people on the market, the more chance you'll have of corruption. The more you want to boost the state's economy, the more you're going to create new points of corruption. The more dots you create, you'll be in a position not to have moral supermen, or to have enough people to control. Then you'll also ask who controls the controllers. So, the point of the fight against corruption is to reduce those points where goats and cabbage meet and where the goat approaches the cabbage and says – it's great this cabbage, nobody will see me, and even if I ate cabbage, it's not a big deal. The sanctions aren't much, it's unlikely that's why it fits. It is something that is not your superior task, but your recommendations would surely be valuable at the time of the public debate on the laws most relevant to your important mission in society. Also, when it comes to groups of citizens and even the area at all, that's true, the area is completely unsettled. I've had one experience directly, and here we have full protection from the fact that a group of citizens doesn't have absolutely... You can draw only legal analogies, but you don't have a solid basis in our right to many things. On the other hand, you have some interpretations, where a group of citizens who receive 30,000 dinars from the municipality budget, must submit an audit report that costs more every year and on the other hand should always make this beautiful tananic distinction where corruption is more likely, and where it is less likely and never tend to hit the network very, very broadly and that your time is spent on some things that are not the greatest risks in this society. Another conclusion that is important concerns the fight against corruption and terrorism and crime and money laundering. The role of the Agency is also important and should be strengthened. Next week, we will discuss a very important convention that Serbia will adopt, and it is about the co-operation of the tax administrations, and there will be plenty of space, because there is no state in the world, even the most serious ones that can be measured by the motive of those who benefit greatly, to hide their benefits and not to answer for it. Whatever you do, whoever has a much bigger budget, who is threatened by a much greater punishment, will have much greater knowledge to avoid it. One way is that your reach in Serbia, and crime, money laundering and many other crimes can develop beyond Serbia, and there will be your hands tied, no matter how hard you try, because even this convention that we will sign next year, has been signed by 90 countries in the world, and 90 is not. In many segments, it will simply be a decades-long struggle of cats and mice, and you cannot escape from it, but what is realistic is that we do what we can in Serbia and with countries that are ready at any time to work with us through the co-operation of tax administrations, as well as through co-operation of agencies that deal with similar jobs. That's why international co-operation is very important. Also, the conclusion of capacity building is important, because building capacity creates employees who are able to understand how complex materials are such as money laundering and how much money laundering is done and how innovative it is, because what you learned in 2018, 2020, will not apply, because as innovations advance in the real sector, they progress in some other areas where they try to preserve what is acquired in those areas that are not legal. It's also a constant struggle. More or less about those conclusions, I wouldn't say anything if they were wrong. They will be right or wrong if we have a good strategy, a good action plan, good action measures and good determination to implement the action plan. Turn, turn, turn, it won't be all the way up to you and that's why what's mentioned is very important, which is that the fight against corruption is the fight against all the institutions of this country, not everyone, but almost everyone, and that's also the issue of citizens who should also work on raising awareness, that reporting corruption doesn't necessarily mean unpleasantness to them, but it should mean a good thing. As a society, we failed somewhat in the period from 2013 to 2018, when we observe indicators that we have set ourselves in action plans and strategies. In political activities, the number of things that have been fulfilled is significantly smaller, seven. Twenty-four are not fulfilled. There's 50% in public finances. Private-public partnerships and privatisation are pretty bad. In the judiciary, about 50%. When it comes to police and force, it's less than 50%. In spatial planning, good results have been achieved. In health – poor, education – bad, media – about 50%. It could be a matter of ambitiously set action plan, it could be a matter of ambitious thinking that the organs will be better coordinated, the state, and that really complex things will be realized in this society. What is important, when a new action plan is put in place, to respect key things and a new strategy of our European path, Chapter 23, which we will have to close down every year so that we can open new chapters and where this challenge will follow us until the day they say it - it's all right, we are now going to individual ratification with each EU member state. When we prepare a new strategy, it would be very desirable to keep thinking about 23, because that is the basis of everything. Other chapters are being tangled, it's not incorrect. Chapter 32 is inextricably related to you, although we have now pointed out, the colleague pointed out that there are certain non-coordinations between DRI and you and some other bodies, but it is something to work on and it will be much easier if we are good students, when it comes to the introduction of electronic administration and electronic data exchange. It'll be a lot faster. So the point is, if we prepare a strategy, to prepare it so that the objectives are realistic, measurable, feasible and very consistent with what Chapter 23 requires. Another indicator that worries me somewhat is that corruption perceived index or index of observed corruption in Serbia is currently stagnating. Of course, every perception is subjective, but we haven't invented a better way of measuring corruption, for the simple reason that objective data people who deal with corruption won't give you. So every index, which is subjective, has a certain dose, but what's important, is the same methodically for all countries in the world that are being evaluated. The challenge that exists is that in 2010 to 2018 we moved the index from 35 to 39. The bigger the index, the smaller the corruption. In 2016 we were 42. What we need is a new energy to get into the fight against corruption, but, I would say again, taking good care of the relationship between the goat and the cabbage and reducing the possibility of goat and cabbage coming, not increasing the chance of sanctioning the goat. Because if there's a lot of goats and a lot of cabbage, it's gonna be hard. When we comparatively observe the index of observed corruption, which is worth pointing out, let's compare to the region. There are similar trends in the region. Croatia, which was in the process of building institutions about seven to eight years ahead of us, started at 41 in 2010, came to 51, stagnating at 48. Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is late for us for at least five to six years, started at 30, climbed to 42, fell to 38. Bulgaria launched more or less in 2010 from 38, dropped to 33, has now increased its score to 42. Compared to the region, it's a similar tendency, but it shouldn't satisfy us. For example, Estonia, which I like to highlight as an example of the introduction of an electronic administration and at least one reasonable state, started at 66 in 2010 to raise the good indicator to 73 in 2018. What I'd say is that political will is not as short of energy as it is to get things done to the end and one good solution of society to fight corruption. And again, I would say, it's not about the Agency, that it's a weak link, it's a problem, it's not easy to coordinate different institutions, connect them in a meaningful overall and achieve complex indicators of success. That's a first-class assignment. Except I'll do it a hundred times - let's get the goat out of the cabbage whenever we can. For last, once again I will repeat what is most important, the report itself has no reason not to adopt. He really said what you did, how much you did, how many procedures you did, how much money you spent, in a very transparent way, very detailed. There's a very detailed review of the results of the action plans, who, of course, wanted to read it. It's published every year. On the other hand, it's not the point of what the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing, but the point is to say that to fight corruption it takes more than your work and that, again, it takes a lot more co-operation between the different authorities of this country. Also, when we set high expectations, I'd rather set a little higher expectations than have them very low, or have them unreal high. It is important to know that no country has rooted out corruption and brought it to the level of Denmark, which has a score of 88 out of 100, we have 38, and that it was poor. So, you won't find a poor country where there's no corruption, unless that country is the perversion of history with the most difficult dictatorship and the state in which the fight against corruption actually ate life. Such countries, fortunately, are no longer in the world. Without growth there will be no reduction in corruption, without salary growth there will be no reduction in corruption, because if someone has the power to do something illegal, a small chance of catching it and paying 500 euros, all the incentives of the world exist there. Only growth can be a factor that will significantly reduce corruption in one society and there is no dispute at all. On the other hand, corruption prevents growth. It's a screwed-up math. Another thing that is important and worth repeating, when thinking about politics, when thinking about laws, when thinking about repression, you should always think about what people's attitude is, whether creating a point where state and economy meet, state institutions and individuals, where we have a shortage of offers, let's say, state services, how likely it is that individuals will react very rationally and reach out for corruption. Only by removing these dots can the motivation of people be removed to deal with corruption. About 10 years ago, we had completely corrupt construction. And you could use all the power of this world when corruption was the cheapest way to remove it. And today you have problems, less than then, and people react rationally, although it's illegal, but if you have a bad law or a law that encourages corruption, I'm afraid we don't have people, there wouldn't be any in any country that would run away from that challenge. It is a fundamental challenge. I want you to continue to work as you have so far, so that the basic proverb can be -- not by the grandmother, not by the uncles, that no one in this country, was a national MP as a carrier of sovereignty, was it the Minister, the Prime Minister, the President of the State, to be excluded from our work, from your work, I mean above all. When we consider how the Anti-Corruption Agency works and compare it with other countries, we have in mind that we live in the institutional framework of Serbia, not Denmark, not Sweden, not Norway, not Germany, and that the range that you can have is limited to, that we should try again every year, learn how to fight this disease and be aware that this fight will never end, but what should be our satisfaction is when we see good action plans, and I hope that we will have those, to see and achieve the indicator, to see good estimates for Chapter 23, when the annual reports of the EU arrive, as a very neutral evaluator and to see, from year to year, that the CPI index is growing. No one expects him to be 60 in 10 years, but let's try one or two better grades each year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57848	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word is Maria Yevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57849	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected guests from the Anti-Corruption Agency, today we have the opportunity to analyse and discuss the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. When we talk about prevention and the fight against corruption, JS sees it as one of the priorities in the reform process in Serbia on its way to EU membership. It is almost daily that the state's determination to stand in the way of corruption, as well as the will to implement anti-corruption, system measures conducted by this high home and the Ministry of Justice and the government itself. There are criticisms related to the fight against corruption and which in some ways confuse citizens, but it is clear that the Republic of Serbia, from the Anti-Corruption Body of the Council of Europe, is positively assessed for the adoption of systemic anti-corruption laws and measures implemented in the country. What awaits us is the change of the Constitution in the work of the judiciary, where new mechanisms will be introduced to strengthen the independence and accountability of the judiciary and that is at the final stage. The Anti-Corruption Act has been passed. In the final phase is the preparation of the property origin law, which many decades have announced, but apparently there was no political will or political force for its adoption and adoption. It is precisely this government that will refer the law to the National Assembly, which will further improve the fight against corruption. For JS, this means that Serbia's citizens will be more satisfied with an even higher degree of strengthening the systemic fight against corruption in Serbia. The problem of corruption is not only in Serbia or the region, it is a problem of global scales, and I would like to take the opportunity to praise the co-operation of our Anti-Corruption Agency and the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Italy. The co-operation was mirrored through a two-year-long tennis project funded by the EU. During the implementation of the project, experiences and knowledge between these two agencies were exchanged, which is very important because Italy's experience in fighting corruption is significantly greater. The co-operation of our D.A.'s Office for Organized Crime is also successful, but also the Prosecutor's Office for Combating the Italian Mafia, and that is of paramount importance when we talk about fighting transnational crime. Since 2018, Serbian prosecutors and police officers have been attending professional training in Italy in the field of anti-corruption and financial crime. When we talk about the fight against transnational organised crime, Serbia is the first state to be called on to be part of the network of the institution to prevent corruption and to collect and exchange information, as well as good practices between institutions to prevent corruption. The network makes more than 15 countries, and you, Mr. Sikimic, are one of the two vice presidents of this organization. As noted, JS believes that this government has recognised that fighting corruption improves the quality of life of citizens, restores trust in state institutions and improves the overall picture of our country in the world. The political will of Serbia, the Serbian government and its determination to fight corruption is clear, and I think the Law on the Origin of Assets, which has been waiting for 30 years, will be a major step in this even simple struggle. A unique Serbia believes Serbia has an institutional framework to fight corruption and in favour of this is the results of last year, where there is an increase in the number of convictions, when it comes to criminal acts with a corrupt element, and most often it is about convictions against the responsible persons for abuse of official position and taking bribes. These include procedures conducted and against highly-positioned officials, such as directors and responsible persons in state institutions. In order for the Anti-Corruption Agency to be more effective in its work, we approved more executives in the Agency's work a few months ago, and I think it is a direct confirmation that the state is determined to continue fighting corruption. Serbia has a European standard and shows that it is ahead in the region against corruption and when we talk about the concrete measures being implemented, we cannot without looking at the Alert Act, which has been done according to the highest standards of the Council of Europe, which is why many countries, primarily from central Europe, are seeking help from Serbia to write such laws. The alarmers need Serbia, because they do not violate, but protect the system and this law has taken a major step forward, because those who point to corruption have adequate protection from the court and thus the system itself has been launched. They point to society's problem and society needs to recognize it as a good step in implementing justice and regulating the system and should face the problem in an adequate way and solve it at the very beginning. The Alertor Protection Act has been applied since 2015, and before its entry into force, about 1,200 judges and over 300 officials, judges' assistants have been covered by a mandatory training programme and thus the basis for this law to be implemented and properly implemented. A united Serbia supports the government's efforts in a systematic fight against corruption. In Voting Day, the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency will support and everything the Anti-Corruption Agency will do in the next period to eradicate corruption from the system, because it is the only way we will guarantee the rule of law and restore citizens' confidence in state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57850	Thank you, colleague Yevdzic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57851	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Sikimic, with his associates, fellow MPs, Socialist Movement Group – People's Peasant Party – The United Peasant Party will be pleased to support the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, because we really have reason to do so. The reports were done in quality and what is most important for the Agency's work report in 2018 is the fact that it is extremely detailed, both the Agency's work by sector and the results of this work, with the implementation of the key results of each sector. So, I have to admit, it was a real pleasure reading the material received. The report clearly and unequivocally shows that the Agency as an independent and independent state body in its work has shown a high level of professionality and efficiency, which represents significant progress compared to some of the previous years. What is most important is that there is significant progress in the Agency's work to be done both better and better and more efficiently. The period since the five-October coup in 2000, until the change of government in 2012, was marked by an extremely high degree of criminalisation of the former regime, which I am free to say, was ruthlessly and intolerably corrupt. Corruption was so rooted in the former regime's system that even the top of the then anti-corruption agency was not immune to it. That what I'm saying is not empty words we can be sure if we look at the Council's reports on the fight against corruption, during the first ten years of our work that coincide with the decade of the DS rule or to be even more precise in the rule of today's opposition, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Zoran Zivkovic and their dikes. This is exactly the Anti-Corruption Council headed by Verica Barac since October 2001, when it was established, has launched more than 30 cases of high corruption and controversial privatisations. The biggest echo in the public had cases of "News", "Luke Belgrade", sugar affairs, the Veterinary Institute, "Sartida", but only one case during the DOS authorities was also given to a court epilogue. It's about privatising "Yugormedia". The Council for Combating Corruption to the Republic Governments in as many as five mandates, how many parties gathered around the DSS or DSS, has sent a report on all cases of high corruption and criminal robbery privatisations that none of these DOS governments have ever responded to. Of course, by order of the top authorities at the time made by today's Alliance leaders for Serbia's new robbery, the judiciary also did not declare more than 90% of the cases notified by the Council or gave a brief answer that the investigative actions were still under way. For example, regarding the sugar affair, the Council submitted its first report on sugar malversions to the Serbian government in 2003. A year later, a second and then a third report followed. No response, not even three governments, the first Zoran Djindjic, whose government was directly involved in sugar malversions, the second Zoran Zivkovic and the third Vojislav Kostunica, never gave the Council an answer, nor did the prosecution ever investigate who was responsible for a huge amount of sugar imported into the country without customs control, repacked, and then exported and sold on preferential terms, which is why the EU has for some time banned us from exporting sugar. All of this is proof that Verica Barac was absolutely right when she told Serbia, which was then ruled by Djilas and Tadic in July 2011, that the country's centre of corruption is in the republican government itself. Exactly, while in power against corruption, those who today through the Alliance for a New Robbery of Serbia wanted to return to the same power. Unlike corruption and robbery privatisation cases, the slander lawsuits brought against Verica Barac as the president of the Anti-Corruption Council were filed by tycoons, whose names were immediately processed because of numerous criminal acts in the Council reports. Milan Beko has filed a dozen criminal charges for slander, a violation of reputation and mental pain against the Council and Verica Barac. A criminal complaint against Baraceva due to abuse of the official position and alleged overrun of its powers, he also filed before the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office Miroslav Miskovic over the immeasurable damage done to his company "Delta". Since the entire government was criminalized at the time, even individuals from the very top of the then Anti-Corruption Agency could not stay out, during that time, of the generally accepted style of conduct. So, unfortunately, we had one shameful episode that a member, and I think he was even the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, was being prosecuted and held responsible for the crime, although not in the way that he was supposed to answer, but that's already the problem with the functioning of the judicial authorities. It may seem to someone that it is a coincidence that the man whom Dilas, Jeremic and Obradovic recently proposed as your expert for a negotiator and advocate of their interests, but when it comes to this three-way alliance for Serbia's new robbery, nothing is a coincidence. Of course, it is no coincidence that a representative of their interests, mainly based on personal wealth, will be Cedomir Čupic, a man who, by decision of the Third Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, in the case of KT331/15, was allowed to avoid prosecution by agreeing with the Prosecutor's Office and thus avoiding responsibility for falsifying the record he committed during his time as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. In addition to the criminal proceedings against Gilas's pet, Cedomir Chupic, I will remind you that several criminal proceedings are being conducted against the first director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I do not know whether it is necessary at all to point out that it is the position of DS, the person responsible for the abuse of the official position relating to the illegal spending of official travel logs, as well as the abuse of the purchase of the building in which the Anti-Corruption Agency is based today, where it has been found that the building was bought at a much higher price than real, and that the building was bought with furniture, and when it was to be taken over, the furniture in the building was no longer there, and the funds for the new furniture were re-determined from the budget reserve, since the one that was bought with the building had simply evaporated, as it had evaporated many things during the rule of the previous regime. Fortunately for the state of Serbia, the victory of the SNS coalition and the change of government in 2012, has led to radical changes in the country's attitude towards both prevention and the fight against corruption, which today became one of the priorities of all republican governments from 2012 to today. With responsible policy and consistent fight against all forms of corruption, we have largely managed to restore citizens' trust in state authorities, particularly in a judicial system that has been seriously hit by 2012 due to numerous abuses. After these less than seven years of reforms, we must recognise that the state is on track to fight corruption, and what is most important is that all state institutions participate in this fight without exception. Accordingly, over the last few years, there has been an increase in the number of convictions when it comes to criminal division with a corrupt element, so in the last year alone, we have more than 400 convictions that have been sentenced to prison, and the prosecution has handled more than 10,000 criminal charges. The seriousness and commitment in the fight against corruption tells the fact that more than three years of public debate and the work of the task force on the adoption of a new Law on the Prevention of Corruption adopted in this House two months ago. The new anti-corruption law extended the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, strengthened its independence and financial independence, strengthened the protection of public interest, reduced risks of the creation of various forms of corruption and increased responsibility of public authorities and public officials. This law will start to apply from 1 September of next year. Not only have the new law created conditions for more quality and efficient work of the Agency, but it has also been done with concrete moves by the Government and the Assembly, which have been taken since the end of last year and, above all, to increase the budget resources intended for the Agency's work, as well as a significant increase in the number of employees, so it will be extremely interesting when we compare this year's work results next year with the results that will be achieved after the increase in the budget and after the increase in the number of employees and see if there has been an increase in the effectiveness of the Agency's work, which I really don't doubt will be so. Of course, for the full impact of prevention and the fight against corruption, it is necessary that all state authorities make a maximum contribution. It is therefore necessary that all activities of the Agency be fully monitored and assisted, above all, by police, courts, prosecutors, tax administrations, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and by a number of other state bodies. Only then, when we look at the results of these organs can we create a more complete picture of the results of the fight against corruption. I also have to mention the fact that during the previous period, some media often knew that they were banalizing and showing some of the Agency's activities, creating a false picture of the full corruption of the greatest part of public officials, which, of course, does not correspond to the truth. It is true that during the rule of the former regime, many officials used public functions to make personal wealth and monopolies for their business. But all these changes, both legal and organisational, have contributed to the fact that such cases are no longer repeated. By passing new laws and by introducing a new principle of work, we are precisely struggling to make sure that Serbia never repeats someone like Dragan Gilas, a man who during his term carried out on several public functions, acquired property that is measured hundreds of millions of euros through numerous abuses. Right now, we are struggling never to rule in Serbia ever again that every public investment must grow into an affair and be a synonym for theft and robbery. It is precisely that we are fighting that no one in Serbia like Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, just because they own hundreds and dozens of millions of euros, earned in an illegal manner, have the opportunity to buy political parties, entire parliamentary groups, individual MPs and committee members. Exactly, we are struggling that no one like Bosko Obradovic can launder money from the Republic budget for campaign purposes by paying a private craft shop half a million for fictional, i.e.. non-existent electrical works. It is precisely that we are fighting that a man like Bojan Pajtic, an idea maker of the Kamenica 2 affair, the Vojvodine Development Bank, the Capital Investment Fund and many other robberies of the province budget, and that no one like Radoslav Milojičić Kena, who was equal to cataclysms for the Smederavska Palanka municipality, will come to the head of any municipality. What this report we are discussing shows unequivocally is that Serbia has an orderly framework to fight corruption and to fight corruption systematically. It clearly shows that there are no safeguards in the ongoing fight against corruption, which has been the case in some previous times. The procedures conducted by the Agency against all officials, whether they belong to the authorities or to the opposition, whether officials are at local or republican level, clearly show that there is definitely no one in this fight who is protected by a party book, social status, wealth, function they perform. What is evident from the report is the excellent results of the Agency's international co-operation, which led to the Agency's director, Mr. Sikimic, being elected one of the two vice-presidents of the network of corruption prevention institutions, made up of 18 countries' anti-corruption institutions. This success is an obvious recognition that both Mr. Sikimic and the Agency, as well as the state of Serbia, have shown results in the fight against corruption. In the end, I'd like to conclude this address with one recommendation. Since the work report, in 2018, contains a section with characteristic examples of practice, and I know that many colleagues, who, due to unclear regulations or insufficient information, have sinned in reporting the property situation, in some time soon to publish a release covering all the most frequent errors and failures of the functionor when reporting the property or reporting changes to that property situation, so as to reduce the errors and failures to the least possible level, and on the other hand, save time needed for the implementation of the procedure in respect of such banal failures and errors, which can be avoided by better education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57852	Thank you. Do any of the other representatives, or authorized ones, want a word? Does the word have a People's MP, Nejo Jovanovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57853	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support the Agency's report on the prevention of corruption, because it is unequivocal that it is comprehensive, clear, that it contains everything that we, the MPs, is important to learn and that, based on our knowledge, we come to the conclusion that it is unique here, which is that you have done a lot to apply both in the normative part and in the practical sense of words, anti-corruption measures, to identify all types of corrupt action and to respond correctly to both processing and speaking adequate measures. When I talk about processing, I think of the initiation of appropriate proceedings before competent courts, misdemeanor and basic courts. Mr. Sikimic, it is doubtless that you have taken over one function that has an immeasurable importance on the part of the protection of both the system, i.e. the institution of the state and the legal order, not only you, but in any case your powers in this regard are very, very important. Given the period which was in 2001, or 2002, when we had in various segments of society the corruption, this today and what we see through the Report is quite the opposite. To be perfectly honest and open, there is no state in a world where there is not at least some kind of corrupt operation, but countries with a strong system, with a stable arrangement, have measures and mechanisms to bring these aspects of corruptive action down to a level that does not endanger the institutions of the system and legal order. I mean, not only do I think, but I also want to believe that we have already managed to reach that level when we can say that corruption in Serbia will never, as previously done, endanger both the system and the legal order. Why am I saying this? When we do a parallel compared to the period I mentioned, let's just remind ourselves of the criminal privatisations that were passed under the provisions of the law, as I recall in 2001, about privatization of companies that were dealing with social capital as majority capital. Let's remind ourselves of the fact that during that very period, hundreds of thousands of employees were out of work. Let's remind ourselves of the fact that many buyers of such companies were leaving Serbia, taking literally everything they could take, or better to say about the kidnapping, leaving the spooky empty halls or the drive of companies, leaving without a job a huge number of employees, without existence, and sucking out all the capital that existed, no matter how much – it is so, on the one hand, without one single dinar of investment, to which they were obliged. Was there any corrupt activity here? No doubt it is. Did it adequately respond to this corrupt action? No doubt not. There are a small number of procedures that are due to severe violations, and even those abuses that are not only predicted, or normised by the Privatisation Act which, frankly, was a criminal law, a very small number of those who have been identified, a very small number of those who have been processed and a very small number of those who have been convicted. Not to say that, in that period in 2001, 2002, since the five-October changes, exactly the public procurement sector has been the subject of corruption, but literally the foothold of corruption, not to mention how many ministers from that period, precisely because of violations of the provisions relating to public procurement, have been processed. In our opinion, the SPS parliamentary groups, it is not the number that includes all those who have committed illegal acts, who have sinned against the law. Many have remained out of reach of the law, and it is a form of corruptive action or influence that someone does not commit himself under the law, that he is not responsible for what he has done, that he does not suffer the consequences, and on the other hand, the state remains without compensation. When I said that the public procurement sector was a source of corruption, there are unequivocally clear examples. Not to mention how optical cables and the entire system of one ministry that was responsible for it worked in a corrupt way. It was a court epilogue. I do not interfere with the court's decision as it will be, whether it is just or not, but it is evident that there were fundamental doubts, and when it comes to then, Minister Dulic and many others. Whether the court's epilogue will be like this or not, it's not ours, it's a matter of court and the court will decide. If there is no guilt, the court will pass such a verdict, as will the verdict if there is any guilt. But it is evident that the prosecution reacted because there were fundamental suspicions of something that could be led under corrupt action. After the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, we recently passed it, it is doubtless that you have far more jurisdiction on the one hand, but on the other hand it is also doubtless that you will be far more effective in accordance with these powers. And it is doubtless that this initial period is already experiencing what we want, not only us MPs, but also the citizens of Serbia, which is to see the results of the fight against corruption. In view of the fact that the law has extended the circle of persons who may be in conflict of interest, given that the law in the process area has given the possibilities of far more effective action, i.e. practical application of these legal provisions, or norms, we are convinced that you will succeed in doing so in the best way and in realising, i.e. to convert the law into practice, in that optimal sense of the word. As far as the other parts of the Report are concerned, I would not very much affirm them, given that the Committee on Justice, whose member I was, gave a positive assessment and the representatives of the Agency were on the Committee when we reached that conclusion that the Committee should give the proposal to the Assembly to accept this report and in any case it has a basis for accepting, for several reasons. The first reason is concrete results in the Agency's work in carrying out its control and preventive function. These results are evident and difficult to dispute, i.e. they cannot be doubted. The implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy also results. The implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy Action Plan in 2018, I hope that, in the same way I have now assessed, will be assessed when conditions are obtained, i.e. when we analyse it in that full sense of the word, and it has undoubtedly absolutely produced results. As far as the normative framework is concerned in the area of financing political activities and clearer definition of controversial concepts and issues, it is not our jurisdiction, because it is under the legislative framework, but not just with us. It is also necessary that the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the Resort Ministry allow one such law to appear or a legislative proposal which, hopefully, we will be highly professionally and reasoned to discuss and ultimately adopt it solely for the purpose of supporting you and to assist you in further action. And finally, I think that, Mr. Sikimic, so far, you have been satisfied with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to improving the infrastructure of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, when it comes to the possibility of skilled training and more adequate preparation, i.e. increasing the possible personnel structure or staff potential of the Agency, equipment, programmes and essentials to say that the conditions of work in the Agency are improved. I hope that you have no objections, with the recommendation of the government of the Republic of Serbia to work on this field, because it is never enough what exists, it can always be upgraded, it can always be improved, these conditions can always be adapted to the needs, on the one hand, and on the other hand, applied in the practical sense of words where circumstances have changed, so let's also react to these changed circumstances in an adequate way. Because of all this I have pointed out, I will repeat once again that the SPS parliamentary group will support your report and that in the voting day, we will vote by asking that the report be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57854	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57855	I thank, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, Mr Sikimic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this report by the Anti-Corruption Agency is very important for further work, both the National Assembly and our entire state and our institutions. This report defines in a very detailed, very high-quality way what has been done on the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, which was adopted in 2013 in this parliament, which defined several key principles for the functioning of our country and the very relationship of the majority in parliament, the heads of state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, according to corruption. One of these main principles is zero tolerance to corruption and, of course, a harmless and uncompromising fight against this monster. Which has also been proven over the past few years, when it comes to a clear and equal relationship with all those who have dealt with corrupt things in this country, although there is much that the state, the Agency, in co-operation with parliament and all other institutions, can do and correct in that area. We all know that this fight is great, that it never ends, that it can never be 100% successful, but we can strive for the fight against corruption to be more successful every day, every month, every year. To show everyone in this country the will and desire of whoever, members of the ruling parties, opposition parties, that the hand of justice, the hand of the Anti-Corruption Agency and our Parliament, and the state institutions will be such that all those involved in corrupt activities will arrive and that they will, of course, answer to the authorities. Although today is a focus of discussion on this report, I cannot as someone who is seriously involved in politics, I do not see a broader social context in the fight against corruption, the role of the Agency, the role of Parliament itself, the committees responsible. And what has happened in our country in the past few months, which has not been necessarily in any period of our country's functioning since the Berlin Congress until today. What is very important to highlight and mark, unfortunately political life and the social context in our country is an attempt to divide our society, an attempt to divide our people, which was discussed in the authorial text in "Politica", President Aleksandar Vukic spoke on Monday. Not on the basis of ideology, not on the basis of political programmes, their defences, reasoned debates in parliament and in all other places, which parliament provides, public hearings, working groups, committee sessions, plenary sessions, but on the attempt of one part of those who have become accustomed to having corrupt actions come to wealth, come to power, to manage this country and their institutions. Try to divide this country into those who are the masters of Serbia, who are supposed to be, who deserve it, because they are God's days, that they realize all projects, that they draw money however they want, from all ministries, institutions, to bring down this country, as they did on several occasions and over several years of operation, so we have lost 500 thousand people, who have lost their jobs in the period from 2008 to 2012. Efforts to re-establish those who are the masters of life and death and other Serbia and other Serbia, so-called. The plebs, who we represent as they want to introduce us and which I belong to, the credentials say Serbia, some sandwiches, people without diplomats, people without knowledge who led to the 26% unemployment in Belgrade today having 10% unemployment. Which led to in 2014 the debt of pregnant women, respected colleagues being 396m dinars in the city of Belgrade, and now there is not one single dinar of debt. That debt to socially endangered persons is 121 million dinars, and now there is not one single dinar of debt. That made Serbia a construction site, a country of cranes, a country of buffers, a country of new factories, a country of foreign direct investment, domestic investment. It is the Serbia that did not agree to a racket, which did not agree to pay for it, as in Chicago in the 30s, which did not agree to humiliation. This is the second Serbia, which fortunately, according to all the public opinion surveys it supports and which numbers more than 70% of citizens who support our policy, who support President Aleksandr Vukic, and who support this uncompromising and unfettered fight against organised crime and corruption. Mr. Sikimic, we will continue to support everything that is in sign and which is the possibility that this country will make the best and better choices against corruption. To spend every government dollar in the best possible way, not only legally but also in the most meaningful way, to get what you would say is the greatest value for the least possible money and to make our country as efficient as possible, as best as possible, as best possible in the service of the only ones that I answer here. They're citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's the people of the Republic of Serbia. They're the only ones we answer to. We do not respond to those who wage hybrid war and war with false news. I must give an example of my distinguished colleague, Nebojka Stefanovic. It is not by chance that war is waged against one who may be one of the best of us. The one that's in your report and I've been reading it in detail, I've raised the level of M.O.P. function to the highest branch. The interior ministry, which has done more for police members over the past five years, has done more for the people of the Republic of Serbia, for its safety than several last police ministers in the past 25 or 30 years. Of course, when there are such results, those who put their country's interest in no other than the fifth or tenth plan attack, and, of course, it bothers them that the MUP has such results, which Serbia is a safe country, which Serbia is a sovereign country and that Serbia takes priority on Serbian interests. Nobody dictates what we're going to do, how we're going to do it. We can all work together. We support President Vukic's balanced policy when it comes to geopoliticals and our country's international position. We support co-operation with both the Russian Federation, China and the US, the EU, with all the countries we can trade, cooperate, and with all the countries that respect us. And on that path we will stay, and on that path we will continue to endure and of course we will protect each one of us who is in this brutal way attacked and exposed to daily brutal attacks and lies, such as the interior minister who bothers this country to be safer, to be more orderly, to be richer. And they may mind that Kosovo and Metohija didn't enter Interpol last year. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are probably in the way, so such patriotism is the respect of the country and the struggle for its country, which has led to such people being exposed to the most brutal and worst possible attacks of those who are the worst and those, as the president himself said, who he didn't want to pay for a racket, so now they're dealing with the collapse of interest and the collapse of his country. And you won't see anywhere in any country like they do so that people go abroad and talk bad about their country. We can do it here, and that's why I'm saying that, unfortunately, we don't have that ideological division, the party division, and that we're just being argued about what's better for our economy, which is better for our international position and for our co-operation. We today of one piece, a minority part of a few percent, do so many people have an attempt to divide Serbia into plebs, and on those who are God-given, the lords of Serbia. Now, no more lords over Serbia have only patriotism and patriots and people who will lead this country into a good, safe future. A country that will modernize, a country that will record economic growth, a country where people will be employed, in which we will be more, in which children will be born. This is Serbia, which most in Parliament want and which, of course, we will achieve as our country's main strategic goal, and we will not, of course, allow the division of these species to affect our country and its further growth and development. In the sea and in the salva of these brutal attacks, which have nothing to do with results that have nothing to do with ideological differences, we also have an expert who writes in one weekly magazine yesterday, "What is hiding behind Bechtel?" Imagine "Bechtel", what is behind "Bechtel"? I understand and understand the arguments of colleagues from the SRS who want Serbia to turn to Euro-Asian integration, stronger intensive co-operation with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, and that simply by nature, things are critical of strengthening co-operation with the United States, strengthening strategic relations and relationships that we, frankly, and my party advocate and, of course, a good part of our colleagues here. But imagine, in this text, what in this false news in Bechtel and the role of President Vukic, what in this whole potential business that is completely legal, which most in this Parliament voted as an agreement here, where we had one public discussion, one public debate says that this job with Bechtel may affect that the Trump administration in the United States may have a better and more favourable relationship with Serbia when it comes to solving the biggest political issue in our country, which is the question of KIM. And we apologize very much for that sin. What we are doing to preserve the people, the Serb people in KIM, what we are doing to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, what we are doing to preserve the security of our citizens in KIM territory, to ensure regional co-operation and to do everything possible to preserve our interests in KIM, our legitimate interests in KIM. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we are witnessing today that even these things that are very positive, even says that the crazy project, imagine, is a ridiculous project to build the Moravia Corridor, in which nothing was caused, have even found Azerbaijan to criticise, a friendly country, a country that has not recognised KIM, which maintains the Republic of Serbia and accuse even the US administration of some corruption and crime that they are talking about here, and when it comes to a potential job with the construction of the Moravian Corridor and "Bechtela". One completely flat-rate assessment and one act that has nothing to do with it and, of course, is directed against the interest of the Republic of Serbia, what we will persist in the coming period, which is building infrastructure, building highways, but also the same attitude towards all. That's what this policy shows. We've built more than 300 kilometers of highways in the last five years, and I'll count them for you. There is so much in fact about the sensitivity of the government and all state institutions about how important it is to have as many players as possible and how important competition is for this country. We have companies from Azerbaijan, from Republika Srpska, we have companies from Greece, from Spain that build roads, we have companies from China, we are open to companies from the Russian Federation, as we do when it comes to rail and rail traffic, construction of the Belgrade-Budapest railroad, and now the biggest problem, even to them, which is potentially the American company will build the Moravski Corridor. A few more sentences and one support to the Anti-Corruption Agency itself, in terms of international co-operation, and what is good is that the Anti-Corruption Agency has made excellent co-operation with all relevant actors in the EU, all congratulations for getting a very important post of vice president in the organisation that brings together 18 Anti-Corruption Agency around the world and here we are standing side by side with Italy that is chairing, as I understand France, which has given the second vice president, because it is very important that we voted here in Parliament and passed the Lobby Law, which will start to apply since 14 August this year. Every honor of these efforts and that through all these forms of work, functions are influenced by, to influence the state institutions, all of us doing public affairs, to do them as well as best, quality and of course, in accordance with the loyalty and moral principles that every state official should adhere to and, of course, respect, which we would agree to, too, that we have to make some changes. We must all be equal and treated when it comes to fighting corruption. It's not that some local official can be treated any more under a larger scale, when it comes to the Agency's work, but rather the president of a political party that's not under the Agency's authority, just because he's not in power and he's not a civil servant, or a state official, and then we have this provision, I'll only mention some things individually, you, if you increase your assets more than three thousand euros, all of us here, which is big money for our country, we need to explain to the Agency how it came about. But some can receive donations of a million, five million, 10m euros, 20m euros, and do not explain at all how it happened. People, millions of euros in today's situation, expensive campaigns. Well, wait, I'm first in favour of a liberal economy, of competition, of making money to be something that's a fundamental principle of state development, of knowledge, of contemplation and of contortion of value. But we can't let such things go past us, let someone say – you know, I've had a very expensive political campaign. Someone donated money to me because I'm beautiful, handsome, and my name is that. We can't let that happen, and we have to fight it, so every penny has to be justified. I wonder how we, how no one gave Mr. Martinovic any donation or Verice Radeti, or anyone here, of 100,000 dinars, not five or eight million euros. I ask you to work together to improve the law and bring in these newspapers that are very important in order for the principle of zero tolerance to be respected in a 100% sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57856	The People's Messenger of the Prophets has the word, Work. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57857	I'm supposed to have a double line for this last reference, but I'm not going to replicate it here. Gentlemen of the Agency, you have seen from previous discussions, and the MPs have said how much trouble there really is and how much corruption in Serbia is present. Of course, MEPs talked about what was until 2012, and about who was and who was not responsible because of obvious or proven or assumed some corruption affairs, but unfortunately there is also the continuity of the then and present authorities. There's no less trouble in that area today. You guys really have big obligations and serious jobs, but on the other hand, you're like all these regulatory bodies that we've been discussing for the past five, six days, you're basically not playing any role, because you're basically not able to do anything. We've also recently changed the law that regulates your work, but yet you haven't received any authority that should be given to someone who's in charge of some sort of business. This is about corruption, you are much more concerned with corruption to say, perhaps even a smaller rank when it comes to politicians than with the law that is truly serious, where the seriously potentially damaged budget of the Republic of Serbia is seriously damaged. That's why I reacted to what Mr. Marinkovic said when he mentioned "Bechtel". It's okay, colleague Marinkovic, you seem unequivocally to me that you absolutely separate us Serbian radicals from these walkers there who are also talking about it. But we've put this Bechtel in the first place for several months or since last year because it's an example of how money is taken from the state budget, that a job worth 500m euros is paid 800m euros, and it's the work of the Borovic Corridor and we're trying, here, I'm speaking here publicly, we're calling the public prosecutor, and now I'm using this opportunity and replica, and here I'm calling you. Let me get this straight once. We have been told by some lawmakers -- no contract has been concluded and no one guarantees that a contract with Bechtel will be concluded, and otherwise a Lex specialis has been delivered that the contract will be concluded without public procurement, which we find very terrible. But, come on, you be the one to end this story with "Bechtel" you have the authority to inform the public and us, the MPs, and once, really put an end to it, to see if those 300m euros that we claim to have gone from the budget to Scott, Zorana, to Bechtel, or who knows where or where or where our data are not accurate and accurate. Now, that's the basic reason, of course, colleagues from the SRS will talk in detail about both your report and everything that our views are, but this was my chance, which is why I asked for a replica. Here, please, you probably can't answer now, but you're working on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57858	Thank you. Comrade Marinkovic, do you want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary group or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP named Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57859	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Sikimic, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, what I want to point out at the outset is that there is a political will in Serbia to eradicate corruption and that there is a very developed awareness of the importance of this topic. One of the tasks that the state has given to its authorities, the prosecution, the police, is to deal with corruption, to root out corruption and a very important message that there is no untouchable and that they will all be prosecuted if they act contrary to the law. So, regardless of whether someone is employed by state authorities, whether he's in a judicial capacity or perhaps a political official, he won't be protected and there won't be any who won't answer to the law if the law breaks. Serbia is determined to continue building and strengthening institutions dealing with the prevention and fight against corruption, and in this regard we can also talk about a new law that has been passed, that is, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, but also other regulations that have been adopted. In this regard, the findings of a new report by the group of countries to prevent corruption in the Council of Europe are also positive, and the report is the result of continued efforts by state authorities to prevent corruption in relation to MPs, judges and prosecutors. This report is also a confirmation of the success of the activities so far, but also a boost and a burst to continue with the adoption of recommendations. I would remind you that in 13 recommendations Serbia was tasked with fulfilling, 10 recommendations were partially adopted. As these recommendations mainly refer to constitutional amendments, it is clear that the Council of Europe could not fully treat the progress made in an adequate manner and present it in its report, but it is certain that Serbia has made efforts to make progress and that all of this has been recorded through the GRECO report. Also, the remaining recommendations recorded in this report were met because we were working to adopt the Law on lobbying and enforcement of both this law and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. We've taken a big step towards adopting these recommendations. The adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act provides for a wider competence and stronger role of the Agency, as well as its greater independence, for greater obligations in terms of public officials entering their functions in terms of the reporting of assets, but also for the authority of the Agency which will now be able to have insight into bank accounts and thus verify the property of officials without consent. Also, what is being introduced and very important, and so far there has been no action based on the representations of citizens, so if the evidence provided indicates that someone's operation has grounds for doubt and raises doubts about the existence of corruption, you can act on these concepts, as well as on official duty. As the report itself states, such measures are expected to lead to a shift in the trend of this unhappily reporting of corruption and to strengthen citizens' confidence in various institutions and that, since we are gray on the same task, we will significantly speed up the results of the Agency itself. What is very important and also mentioned by Mrs Aleksandra Tomic in her presentation as Committee President is that the Agency, apart from the wider competences, has been accompanied by additional financial resources that have been granted, therefore, a higher budget of close to 19,000,000 dinars, but also approved new personnel capacities, if I am not mistaken 49 new jobs, has been approved by the Anti-Corruption Agency, which will significantly increase the effectiveness of the Agency. I would like to remind you that this is also a direct confirmation of the state's determination to fight corruption, because this is also how the recommendations that we are considering together with the Anti-Corruption Agency are being met and we are trying to be more effective in this fight. The role of the Agency is preventative in society and the aim of this is to expose corruption cases in accordance with the law and to point out the occurrence of corruption to the competent authorities. What I point out once again is that it is important that cooperation and coordination of all relevant actors and what is very important and what he has dealt with and the Committee on which the Anti-Corruption Agency report is discussed is that the work of the Agency itself is directed at those who have the money, namely to determine whether it is in accordance with the law, whether the availability of money of citizens entrusted to state bodies, or officials, whether this distribution is done in an adequate manner, in accordance with the law and that it is monitored, of course, through developed mechanisms, the monitoring of property-related persons. What's very important is that this fight is systemic and in these procedures every organ is very important, but a very important link is also the prosecution that needs to do its part of the job. So we're all on the same assignment, and it's important to provide all the conditions and good communication to be effective. When we talk about meeting the recommendations, I would like to point out one very important fact, which is that Serbia is not on the gray FATF list, because the Working Group Assembly has assessed that Serbia has met all the conditions, and that means that Serbia also meets the conditions for opening new chapters in the negotiating process with the EU. Serbia, therefore, has shown a clear commitment, a clear political will at the highest level when meeting the action plan to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and this is very important because Serbia is strengthening mechanisms in this area as well. The fact is that significant efforts have been made, and this is also the Financial Action Group in the fight against money laundering, and that these efforts in order to meet the shortcomings in technical and strategic terms and progress of Serbia have encountered exceptional reactions and exceptional support. The assessment, therefore, is that there is a political commitment and capacity to continue implementing reforms, and it is crucial for us, as a country, to continue to improve these mechanisms. I would like to remind you that 12 laws have come into force during this period, that new regulations and other documents have been made, and we are particularly proud of the improvement of legislation and the increased intensity of national co-operation in this area. This decision by the FATF is also extremely important for business and future investments in the Republic of Serbia, as this way strengthens investor confidence, but also trust and better co-operation with other countries, which is very important to us. What the interior ministry pointed out, the results in this area are reflected in the increase in the number of persons processed, when it comes to money laundering and confiscation of property in this area, which are also very significant results. If we are talking about fighting corruption, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Lobbying has also been adopted during the previous period and the Law on the Protection of Alertrs and Public Procurement, which are also very important steps in this domain. When it comes to results, I really need to point out what is the strategic goal and the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to digitising, or building an open data system, which is one important step towards preventing corruption, because this increases competitiveness and strengthens trust between citizens, states and businesses. I must indeed point out that in these past few years an increased number of services that citizens can use, citizens and businesses can get from state institutions, which is a very important and very important step, noting, to reduce corruption. It is certain that for economic and political stability and this segment has played a key role, because it is very important for us to launch, revive our economy and send a message that Serbia is a safe and favourable investment destination. If we refer to part of the Anti-Corruption Agency's report on the conflict of interest, which states that an increased number of requirements relating to the giving of views of officials in relation to the conflict of interest, therefore the number of requests has been increased, the fact is that the Agency should address the topic launched a few days ago, i.e. we are witnessing that the prosecution and police have launched a joint investigation into the functioning of Dragan Gilas and his companies, employees of his companies, and as regards trading seconds of RTS. Therefore, there are reasonable doubts that Dragan Gilas and employees of his companies traded against the law for seconds at a public media service on certain emissions. So being a civil servant, being mayor of the capital at the same time, trading for seconds of public media service is one conflict of interest which is incredibly large proportions and I think all relevant authorities should deal with this topic. The fact is, when this investigation was launched, attacks followed, or attacks as attempts to change the subject, to distract the public from this investigation. In fact, it is an attempt to avoid and answer the question of how it was Dragan Gilas, acting in politics, so drastically increased his assets, as he stated that he had acquired wealth in the Czech Republic, and all of his companies say that he earned 74 000 euros in this operation to end his political mandates with a sum of 25m euros. So these companies have gone through extremely large sums of money and it is very important to establish that citizens get the right information about how someone got rich in politics. I remind you that Dragan Gilas was also the director of the People's Office of the President of the Republic of then, that he was the Minister for the Implementation of the National Investment Plan, that he was also mayor and that by ending this mandate, at least what he admitted in the work he had carried out ended up as a rich man, and that was only one indicator of how he treated the Serbian economy, according to the interests of citizens, since in this fight for a better life he started and somehow kept it there. So, a major investigation of police and prosecutors related to the trading of seconds at public media service is being conducted and about these machinations in this area has also been written in her reports and Verica Barac. The investigation will show if the suspicions are justified. If they turn out to be, it will be a very large corruption affair that will show that the money of Serbian citizens has been pumped. What's very important, and I'm underlining, is that all these affairs get an epilogue, to determine if it's a conflict of interest and to determine where Dragan Gilas's money comes from, since the story of acquired wealth and business in the Czech Republic is made up. It is necessary for citizens to get an explanation whether these millions are acquired by kidnapping the Pionir City from children or by realising the programmes that Dragan Gilas introduced to Serbia or perhaps from trade in these seconds. Anyway, it's important that we know the truth. It is certain that in history they will be remembered as the man who has most increased his wealth and it is understandable why citizens can no longer have confidence in those who have been actively working on the collapse of the Serbian economy and their goal was only to take care of their interests, their apartments, their apartments, such as Vuk Jeremic, who no longer appears after the affair in the media, because at the moment when Montenegro's referendum was being separated, he only cared about apartments on St. Stefan, while laughing vulgarly and mocking people who were concerned and couldn't reconcile with the collapse of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Besides not being concerned with people's interests, they also took on parallel boasts. These people today try to return to power, divide citizens on elite, educated, similar to other Serbia, therefore, uneducated, into inferior ones. They're trying to represent themselves as visionaries, moralists, honest people, like we all have amnesia here and we forgot that for each of them, the mandate of each of these actors is bound by affairs, malversions and personal wealth. We are witnessing that they are humiliating citizens, calling them ugly names, uneducated and credentials, building an alibi for the already expected bad result in the elections, because citizens' support has long been lost and the fact is that they will not be able to regain it, which they themselves are aware of. Because as early as 2012, citizens said they wanted a stable, secure future, that they wanted investments, that they wanted new roads, new investments, new factories and new jobs and that unequivocally supported the policies of Alexander Vukic and SNS policy. So, we are witnessing that every day with defiance, Dragan Gilas and his suite speak of those who refuse to vote for their own destruction and give legitimacy to those who robbed, sickened and closed their jobs. What they announce and the only thing they offer is that, if they return to power, then, they'll close the unspeakable media, deal with everyone, control them, these are their plans to continue with their enrollment in the affairs, the boards of directors, and continue with their personal wealth. When we talk about the work of the Agency's Anti-Corruption Report relating to the financing of political parties, the Agency thus familiarises the public with the funds collected and the spending of political entities. I must indeed point out that it is important for the Agency to deal with the financial side, therefore, with the Democratic Party functioning, since Dragan Gilas bought out DS debt to the Development Bank. The debt amounted to 49 million and he bought it for 38 million, at the beginning earning and now that the bankruptcy manager is DS, he is conducting to the MPs and simply giving them disciplines, instructions on how to behave, and he is also aware that they are obliged to sit in the hall and represent the interests of the citizens who have delegated them here, they are forbidden to participate in the work of the Assembly, it is forbidden, they are criticised if they participate in the work of the board, even in the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network, but they are therefore allowed to travel to foreign delegations and can be visited by embassies. What is extremely important and what I once again point out is that Serbia has developed awareness of the importance of this topic, but also that there is a strong political will and determination to eradicate corruption, with respect for democratic values, human rights and freedom and the rule of law. Fighting corruption is a fight for our healthy economy and it is very important to insist on coordinating all relevant institutions and actors, insisting on transparency and accountability. As we are all on a joint task, we are prepared as the National Assembly to step up this co-operation with the Anti-Corruption Agency, in order to fight successfully, because we are determined to build institutions, make them stronger and more willing to respond to all the challenges and to insist that the work is done properly and qualitatively. Citizens, with the right, can expect better results in this regard, and we as the National Assembly will support the conclusions of the Committee on the Anti-Corruption Agency Report.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57860	I'd like to thank my colleague Turk. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since no one is answering for a word from the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we are moving to a debate on the lists of elected MPs for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57861	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honored present, corruption is one of the phenomena that is subject to legality as for any disease. It is impossible to eliminate, it is impossible to fully neutralize and it is impossible to fully protect itself from it, but a successful society and a successful state manage to keep corruption under strict control, i.e. to minimise it. As I have pointed out many times before, therefore, there is no, in principle, a poor state, a poor city and a poor municipality, but there is a host municipality, a home town and a home state, and that primarily means a system that has such leadership and such responsible people who, like a household family, will establish, therefore, the principles of work where they will work maximumly, spend adequately and not waste and protect themselves against theft, corruption and crime. In this respect, the existence of the Anti-Corruption Agency is certainly a very important step, i.e. an important mechanism for the realization of this objective, which it has already given and delivers significant results in its existence so far. However, as in all other cases where we have therefore simple new mechanisms, it is certainly necessary to further develop, develop and improve the functioning of this mechanism. It is in the nature of each bureaucratic apparatus if there is a certain relaxation, it is always easier to remain at the level of bureaucratic procedures themselves and to deal with ordinary procedural affairs and issues, thus achieving a certain sense of existence and the very role of such a mechanism. It is therefore very important to point out this possibility of relaxation and some kind of deformation that may occur. Therefore, it is of paramount importance through the work, through the reports themselves, therefore, that the implementation of the Anti-Corruption and Protection Strategy itself should pay attention to the fact that we are past the form itself. It is very important to have precise reports about how much of the MPs, for example, there are receipts in the Assembly, but these are general known things. I don't know what the space is for some corrupt people to be wrong about receiving information in the National Assembly itself, but there are definitely more important things than that. What I want to point out is the experience of the space I'm working on and about which I have a lot of information. So we have in the area of state space that is retail of the extra-legal system, primarily the Tutin and Sjenica municipality, where I don't know for what reasons, I don't know with which backgrounds, but we have dozens of criminal charges for the most serious criminal activities and corruption. It has been going on for years, however, and these applications or investigations continue to be kept strictly in the various drawers of prosecutors or courts, primarily at the bar, and sometimes more. So these are things that are not from that segment of procedure and should be paid particular attention to them, especially in certain areas that have been known to be a blasting space for the past decades. Such phenomena are not just a matter of ordinary corruption. They are also related to security, they are related to the kind of depression and tensions that spread in that part of the space and which can also have far-reaching consequences. That is why we are asking both the Agency and the other authorities to definitely take action against these phenomena and to protect the citizens. Unfortunately, we also have some other phenomena, symptoms about the appointment of some school directors in Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica, where despite the clear evidence and the submitted Agency are related to some corruption phenomena, we have, therefore, the appointment of these directors. I will also deal with this as chairman of the Committee further, and it should certainly be clearly opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57862	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57863	Dear Chairman, the distinguished representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, directors, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I was elected from the SNS list, and I represent the United Peasant Party whose president I am. I'm gonna talk about all these things that my colleagues used to say, specifically about your report. Professor Aleksandra Tomic has already said a lot about those things that have been the results of your work last 2018, which means that the Agency is working with you more seriously and the result is those applications and all that has been done in 2018. Finally, all of us who are here are public officials, we are here to do everything for the people and for the people whatever it takes, whether we come from a small municipality, whether we come from a big city or from any village. I was born in one village, it's the village of Služna, which is next to Svrlig. Otherwise, I say that because I represent these people who live in the area and I think, as Mr Zukorlic said earlier, he said that municipalities, cities, the state, the host state. Our state of Serbia is run by our true host, that is Aleksandar Vukic. Local self-government should be run by hosts, because only so can municipalities work domestically, but with us, in our neighborhoods it is said – covered cat milk do not drink. Therefore, you, your part of the work you do, follow all those activities and us as MPs, ministers, state secretaries, assistant ministers, directors of public enterprises, directors and local businesses, city enterprises and the normal local presidents of municipalities, president of the Assembly. Based on all those parameters that you did when you checked, there are some shortcomings. These shortcomings are, as is apparent, transparent and I think that what you have done, what you have done is the direction that we should do in this 2019 and 2020 and in the coming years, because it is very important for all of us, who have certain public functions, to work in the interests of our people, in the interests of our people, because only in this way, only by host business, by host behavior, we have a chance to make our country stronger, better, better, and that our country Serbia is, as it is, the strongest in the Balkans. Our Serbian President, Mr. Vucic, as deputy prime minister, has started dealing with crime, fighting corruption, and he is doing it now. We who are here now in the Assembly as MPs, I have led the Municipality of Srljig in the period until 2014, and by example I wanted to show how to do it, what household business it is, and I am always ready to check everything I did when I was a responsible person and as president of the municipality and as a national MP. Because because of these checks, I'm sure there will be positive things, and the result of all that is, and the people always say in the elections, because people know best in our small communities, how we people are, how we behave and whether we work in the interests of citizens or in our own personal interest. Once again, you and your Agency, or the Anti-Corruption Agency, are doing what you should, within all those laws, and I think that all these positive things that have been done and there is still a need to check out those periods that have been backwards, because we are witnessing that some officials who have been in a previous period now have large sums of money either with themselves or with some of their relatives. It's hard to reach them, but it's known. Therefore, the state should do its job. You as the Agency do your job, and in one part we need to have even better cooperation and the Agency, and the prosecution, and the police. So now we have special prosecutors within Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade. All of this must be done to ensure the safer work of all those who work, and all for the benefit of our agricultural producers, our workers, our peasants, our young people and our old people living in small communities, live in large cities, live in southeastern Serbia, and throughout Serbia. With such work and household behaviour, I am sure that the country of Serbia will surely go much faster and better than it was by 2012. I think that some of the shortcomings that are within its work, the concrete non-reporting of some of its assets or conflict of interest from one to the other function is not submitted, and it is very important that every official has to do so, because it must be known who was in which place, when he went, how much money he received, and how much money he now has. I'm willing to as a policy man since 2004, I'm prepared to be an example at any moment to verify my entire assets, me, my closest relatives, my friends, and to see how much compensation I've received, what my salary was, how much my parents' salary, my children's, my wife's, and to see finally how much I have now. We also have an example that in one term of four or less years, someone gets rich, buys apartments, buys houses, not only in Serbia, not only in some major centres such as Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, but buys apartments and buys some of their properties outside Serbia, in some European countries. That's what's very important that we should do, and by example we have to show how to do it. Your service and all of us are working in the interest of all of us. With your engagement, as I said earlier, covered cat's milk is not drinking, so it's always better to prevent and prevent it from being treated. Therefore, all those who do the responsible functions must work in the interests of the people, they must do as prescribed by the law, and in the end, if there are any disagreements, all these things can be resolved when all of this is noticed on your part, says and normally can sometimes be a reminder, that people who have not specifically reported something, which they may not have known they should apply for, because you have an understanding of it. Once again, as an MP and representative of the United Peasant Party, I think this report of yours has shown how it should be done. You're doing your job the best way to do it, and you're not doing it as some kind of functioner who's been working during some previous period. They worked in their own interests, enriched themselves, and in the end, after dealing with politics, used their functions, their position to deal with politics. Once again, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, I will vote in favour of this report and support you because your work protects the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57864	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are considering the report submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, which has been authorised under the law adopted in the Assembly and on the basis of a five-year anti-corruption strategy. In fact, we are considering, conditionally speaking, the latest report on the basis of the Strategy adopted in 2013. This strategy is something that could be said to be in full sense the words of the guidelines under which this Agency should work and act. What is very important except for these theoretical settings where corruption is referred to as a general danger to society, where it is a type of crime that should be kept below a reasonable percentage, or level, should be said that the Agency that is in charge of this job must have full co-operation not only with individuals, but with all the institutions of this country. We are witnessing that several months ago, a commission was to be chosen, or a body to deal with and take care of money laundering, or terrorist acts in Serbia. The Agency's opinion was quite clear, decadent, that it should be very careful and careful when it comes to the president of the Commission, otherwise Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. The president of the Anti-Corruption Agency said that something is also warning, when it comes to the finance minister, his work in the past period, is particularly part of the work and activities related to the Privatisation Agency. We are witnessing that the executive authority, and in particular the parliament, has virtually disobeyed the recommendation, the Agency's warning, and has been voted on by Sinisa Mali at the head of the Commission to prevent money laundering and deal with the occurrences of possible terrorism in Serbia's premises. It's one of the examples that's in any case warning. It is clearly seen from all reports from the earlier period that the Agency, regardless of its personal composition, has indicated that the biggest problem in the past period was the way of privatisation that took place in Serbia, that it was actually corruption, that it allowed many individuals and groups to reach enormous wealth. He was cited and apostrophysed by a man who was in high office at the time and had his own privatisation assessment agency, he was the head man "Diloit and Tuša", that is Aleksandar Vlahovic. But no less responsibility when the Agency shows in its reports there was no Sinisha Mali, who was the main man for the tender documentation. We now have something that could be said conditionally - selective justice. From the injustice that can be done, done to an individual or to society, there is worse, and that is selective justice. It is the worst in the fight against crime and corruption. Why? Because there's no selectivity here. If anyone thinks they can commit crime, irregularities, corruption, win, or get down or control by selectively fighting that fight, then it's in vain. And we now have the situation that Aleksandar Vlahovic is at the head of Serbia's economists, giving lectures, as some like to say from the current government, on "Serbian Davos", that is Kopalnik, otherwise, the mountain, which is, in principle, seen a frog bitching and she raised her leg. But also how he knows to lecture on how everything should be transparent in Serbia, to make everything public, to be fair, that we should all work on Serbia's promotion, and never to remember and say -- well, we have in the report, one of the reports, the Anti-Corruption Agency, we have that name and last name, or his function, which we are interested in in in this case. Why isn't that done? Well, it can also relate to what I said at the beginning -- because then it would be a question of the current current finance minister. And now you can imagine the situation of the Corruption Agency. Now it must be very careful, very careful, to identify individuals who are possibly involved in corruption. And not to say that with full rights or full freedom, we should expect that what the Agency finds, what with the irrefutable evidence of the public, will be realised. That's impossible. It is impossible, is the Agency trying, and in this composition, trying to establish a perfectly normal and correct relationship with both executive and legislative authority. With an executive, it doesn't work exactly the way it's supposed to be. Not as the Agency would like it to be, but as it should be, and this implies that, in the proposal of almost every law by the Executive Authority, the Agency takes note of this law, that it would, in this way, contribute to the greatest prevention of opportunities, especially under the proposed laws, to the emergence of corruption as something that is general evil. It's not a big effort. The Agency is appealing to the executive authority that, when proposing laws, especially those from economics, which are from different areas, where you have this strategy in the fields of education, health, etc., that the Agency should give its opinion. Is that a problem? It's no problem. The Agency shall also take certain responsibility for itself in this way. When you look at this report and all the previous reports, you will see clearly that irregularities have been observed in certain areas, in certain systems, or institutions, from political, to public enterprises, political institutions, such as parliament, from individuals, from groups, etc., etc. And what is very, very important, the Agency is based on its work on certain principles that have been generally accepted throughout the world, which is the principle of rule of law, the principle of zero tolerance, the principle of responsibility and comprehensive measures and cooperation of subjects. These are generally accepted principles when it comes to this work done by the Agency. And if we were to go by all these principles, we would see that the Agency comes to a certain degree and that's where the whole process stops. It's simply not possible, there's no mechanism for anything else to do. After all, I speak on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, but I also speak as an individual who deals with this business, as a politician, and because of the lack of awareness and negligence I am subject to reviewing the Agency. Because I didn't report any changes I had in time. And I point this out as an example of how the Agency should work. He can't selectively, so he can't say -- these are MPs from the ruling coalition now, and we're going to take a look at them. No, we're all MPs. All ministers are equal and equal, and we cannot close our eyes in front of the fact that certain ministers, who are encumbered in crime, are not former, but gods and present, stand by, intact, intact, no one discusses them, the public has no insight, the Agency is literally tormented. When it comes to corruption, we have countless examples. Here, in your reports, you made it clear that in the area of health care, in the area of public procurement, in the area of education, in all areas of the maltene flower of crime, the flower of corruption. We are now somewhere on the percentage, as they say, below 50%. If it were over 50% of the success rate, that could be said, we've made some shifts. Everything below 50%, we can't talk about any movement. It is very strange to say here, that co-operation with the European Union, i.e. European institutions, is being apostropheeded. So they promote corruption in Serbia. Their companies come here, bribe, bribe, so that the cheaper they get, the more they can get, their capital, their goods, they can place. So don't let us live in delusions. Well, the whole of Europe is based on corruption. Well, look at the top of the European Union yourself, and you've seen the last elections for the institutions of the European Union. What would the people say, all the naked criminal. In some towers, they choose themselves. Who chooses them? Nobody. They propose themselves, choose themselves. The leaders, we must be determined in this fight. Not because by nature of things or the theory of fighting corruption requires, which is that, at a low standard, in increased poverty and at a reduced intensity of the economy, corruption is increased, but because it is an evil that has covered a complete society. We still have an unchanged system of election of directors of public enterprises. Now we actually have one newspaper, they're not directors anymore, most of them are V.D. In the function of the performer of duty, it is enormous how much they increase their wealth, simply for not to believe. But the wealth they gain at these functions, thanks to privileges and corruption, is portrayed as the property of their relatives or some of the friends they lead it to. So look at the playad that was in power until yesterday. Well, isn't it a shame that we here are talking about how to prevent corruption, and they're walking around Belgrade, in Serbia, people who boast that they saved millions and millions of euros. So take an example of Bozidar Djelic. Do you need a better example? He publicly admitted that he had tenm euros, transferred them abroad. So what does that have to do with anything? When Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin started a decisive fight against corruption, against the oligarchs in Russia, it was shown by the camera. He called them nice and told them – you are criminals. He even said once - give me back my pen, because he suspects he'll steal his pen. Why isn't it called Bozidar Djelic? Why isn't there a single report on Bozidar Djelic? He's gone. What's that? It's the principle and the method of oblivion. It's important for a new government to come, so we'll forget about the previous ones. Where are we gonna end up? Then why are these people working at the Agency doing this hard work anyway? They want the other authorities and institutions of this country to bring justice and the law to those who have broken the law, those who are in corruption, those who are in crime. What is it, it's simply some kind of selective struggle, when it comes to preventing corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57866	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57867	Thank you. We, I believe, because our parliamentary majority and our MPs have been mentioned, on the subject of relations with the Agency and on the issue of fighting corruption, in general, we, I would say, have given some kind of response and a very convincing answer when we adopted and explained why we are doing this, the new Anti-Corruption Act. I don't think there's a full two months that's gone by. It is this law that we have made available to the Agency itself much more space, wider powers to protect the interests of Serbian citizens when it comes to fighting corruption. That, of course, has nothing to do with the treatment of individual MPs by the Agency. I'm sure you've heard one or six MPs, who belong to our parliamentary group, which is what they say to the parliamentary majority, that they're not at all satisfied with the treatment that the Agency has personally shown them. Personal satisfaction, dissatisfaction, that's another thing, a state interest and protection of the interests of the state and the people, that's something that's more important than all of us, and in that sense, I think you're wrong when you say, or whoever says, there's a difference in treatment between different MPs. The principle is what always comes first, and that principle, once again, we showed when we said that the Agency should and can now control every official and that it can access the state in his account without any necessary consent. If we need to control the connected faces, let's do it, we don't have a problem with that because we have nothing to hide. The question is how the state authorities are concerned, and how those concerned because they are the subject of the interest of the state authorities. It's a matter of current and however yesterday, so today, I'm sure beings are current for centuries and centuries. Anyone can testify, and correct if I'm wrong, is the fact that there's no difference when it comes to the interest of the state authorities in terms of whether someone belongs politically to this party or to that party or to that party. Because today we have the fact that they are the subject of the interest of the investigation, the processing of political representatives of all possible parties that occur to you, and those who are in the parliamentary majority and those who are in opposition and representatives of the former regime. When you look at a little bit of what the reactions are to that. Well, is it a rule, but according to a rule that is a rule that never gives up to former regime representatives when they are asked a question – let's now explain something about, for example, your property situation and this one whether there is corruption or not, when you come like Gilas completely naked and barefoot to political functions the most serious and responsible in the state. You lie about getting rich before that, you have nothing to report because you've gotten so rich that you have nothing to report, and then you advance nicely from function to function, year after year, more angry and angry, millions of people start measuring their wealth, and tens of millions, and then you dress up, wave, to hundreds of millions, like him. What do you get as an answer on the other side? Is there too much reason to say – it was so and so, it's normal, it's moral, you have examples in a developed world, in organized countries, you have examples by European standards that it can do so? You don't. You can't get that kind of explanation, it's impossible to get that kind of explanation. Anyway, you got what? The organized harangus calls – this is a political attack. Watch this, they always claim that they are being dealt with politically because they ask one normal, logical question – how can you have nothing, get into functions and then instead of dealing with nothing more private than to deal with the state, the people who trusted you with their destiny, you start getting unwittingly rich and getting up to hundreds of millions, specifically, when it comes to this Gilas, 500 million euros is the level of income in the accounts of his companies. And you get on the other side – no, it's a political reckoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57868	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57869	And other people, too... I'll bring it in a little bit longer. So other people who have also found themselves in the same situation, and are on the other hand, in the same way they have responded – we are being persecuted by an evil regime. Ask us, imagine, this evil regime to explain how we got rich while we were in office. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57870	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57871	My colleague obviously didn't understand when I was talking about a selective fight against corruption. I cited the example – selectivity implies that one MP is privileged to another, when it comes to parliament. There isn't, there's everybody here, when it comes to fighting corruption and doubt, we're all the same and the same. I speak for us MPs, and that is only an example to support the fact that the president of the Anti-Corruption Agency's opinion, when it comes to the selection of Cynthia Malloy, is not respected. That's already alarming. That points to some caution, people. It's got to be taken care of. If we want to support this fight against corruption, then everyone who participates in it, including the Agency, above all, who gives clear guidance, warns of something, must be greatly respected. It's nothing less than the ones you were talking about. We're waiting for one. Understand, people, in 2012, you have made it clear by names and last names who has restricted the crime, who in corruption, members of the former regime, as you always say, although here who is the former, as well as who will be future but names and last names, all of them or most of them are still intact. What's the problem here? What's the problem with calling, checking the property status of Bozidar Djelic, who came to sleep with his aunt on the couch and left Serbia with 10m euros? You remember how many Serbian radicals we insisted on simply showing up, showing up to the public, so transparency here is very important as an element. Here are the media and how important as an element, not these corrupts, which are cited but those who are objective, important as a factor in the fight against corruption, to say to the public, it is true, came without any dinar, without any euro, acquired property in such a way and such. Of all the privatisations, it's only apostrophe 24. Well, that's impossible. Look at the Agency's reports, dozens and hundreds of privatisations were illegal, against legal... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57872	Please bring the end, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57873	I pray you, Mr. Chairman, that you have one archaic, you do the same selectively. My colleague had time, I don't want to argue with you right now, I see you're ready, you're stuck as a rifle, but I want to make it clear to this region that we are all in favour of having a uncompromising fight against corruption. There is no one spared, as every MP and every official and every institution should be equal before the Anti-Corruption Agency and to all the authorities involved in the fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57874	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57875	Well, Mr Mircic spoke less of Sinisa Malo than MPs who are not presently here, such as Zoran Zivkovic, Balša Bozovica, Boška Obradovica and similar to him. So they have been accusing Sinisha Mali of all the bad things that were done in the privatisation process in Serbia since 2001. Sinisa Mali was an official at the Privatisation Agency until 2003, and it seems to me that since 2003, when he left the Privatisation Agency, he had nothing to do with the Agency. The most responsible for Serbia's robbery privatisation are people like Mirko Cvetkovic, like Nikezic, like those people who ran consulting firms, such as CesMecon and what Serbian citizens know, and I believe you know, the greatest abuses in the privatisation process occurred during 2004, 2005, 2006. 2007, 2008. So that's your first and second government, Vojislav Kostunica. First government without DS, second government with DS. So, the second government of Vojislav Kostunica DSS plus DS, then the largest possible corruption affairs took place in the privatisation process in Serbia. After all, this has been reported on several occasions in her reports and the late Verica Barac, and all EU reports also say that those 24 controversial privatisations, carried out between 2004 and 2007/8. A year. With all these privatizations, Sinisha Mali has absolutely nothing to do with it. Sinisa Mali, will be remembered as one of Belgrade's most successful mayors, because he managed to repay all of the debts made by Dragan Gilas in Belgrade in a very short time, and as one of the most successful finance ministers we have had, because for the third year in a row Serbia has a surplus. Because for the third year in a row we have GDP growth, it is largely credited and Cynthia Malo, not only his, of course, but also his. What I don't understand is where you found yourself in the Anti-Corruption Agency's position as director of the Anti-Corruption Agency that Sinisa Mali should not be headed by the Commission to prevent corruption and prevent money laundering. I couldn't read that part. So, I don't see where it says that, I don't see that the opinion of the Agency's director is that Sinisha Mali should not be the president of the Commission. If you can show me that in the report, I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57876	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57877	Since you directly referred some questions to me from my colleague Mircic about the direct concern of the MPs and the Assembly, to me, and by the way, since you complained about the treatment, no one turned the microphone off for you today, as far as I know, it is for me. We're so privileged. But as far as this Assembly is concerned, I'm going to explain to you, as far as Minister Malo is concerned, who you're really talking about as these former regime members, who are not even in the O.R. today, and that has something to do with this corruption, which I'm going to explain to you as well. You know, Minister Mali today is the subject of this kind of accusation, directly to this tycoon, Dragan Gilas, which I was talking about earlier. Now, there's something about how much the subway costs, this Dragan Gilas, and he says, "I've planned this much, and you're planning so much." He could have declared that he was planning a metro for 100 dinars, there wouldn't have been any difference, because he didn't plan to do it, never, never cared about the subway. He knows what he's been wasting his time on and the city's resources, his companies and hundreds of millions on them. On the other hand, where is Sinisha Mali today? Well, here's to that metro making a solution, and that makes the metro, not some guy who looks like a tram, that Gilasov, but a real metro that's gonna connect the city underground to what's appropriate and what's around the world. And what else does Sinisha Mali do today to know, if you missed it, he, along with the tax administration, has prevented separatists from getting a seat in the Inter-European organisation that gathers the tax administration. So he protects Serbia's interests and today is right on schedule. As for corruption in parliament and European opportunities and their opinions that you have drawn, you know, there is not much to talk about in the public, but the European institutions in their reports have indicated that the potential danger of corruption in the Serbian parliament is precisely the fact that parliamentary groups are changing, that people who did not participate in the elections form their groups, their lobbies, their parties, and that they point directly to those who came out of the elections, left their parties and now ended up with Vuk Jeremic, in his parliamentary, or two parliamentary groups as many as there are today, and those who today in the parliamentary group of that yellow tycoon, Dilas Dragan. So these are things that the public doesn't know much about, but they should have them. If someone is destroying the reputation of the National Assembly by dishonesty, which is highly risky in a corrupt sense, it is these people and their financials. All with a list of great gentlemen, with a lot of teeth and the most beautiful education in the world to which we, so ugly and miserable, are nothing, and which, as a result, doesn't hesitate to bring down institutions, not to hide how unfeelingly rich it is, and only one thing doesn't explain to us how it's possible to do it legally, honestly, and morally, if you don't have anything when you come to the minister, either for the NIP, or for the outside jobs, or for the mayor of someone, that you don't have anything when you start, and that you end up rich like, you used to talk to the prince, and today you say who is Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57878	Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57879	As far as the opinion is concerned, it is information that has been present in the public, and this document exists and it is only the opinion of the Agency that it is not in the view that Sinisha Mali, as a person, or as a official, could be at the head of the Anti-money Laundering Commission and terrorism. There's this in the Agency, you can look for it, and I can't do the job for you MPs, and you have to justify what you've been elected and try to look for a little bit, and now I'm supposed to show you the documents, and then what's your work going on? To make an insight into something that someone's put forth an effort, which they have, it exists. But look, gentlemen, what this is all about. You always point out that there is no selectivity that is a uncompromising struggle, and I only remind you of something, ladies and gentlemen, when corruption and crime at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule reached that level that was unbearable, Slobodan Milosevic, or the SPS then arrested its two ministers. Remember that? And make it clear that there are no privileges, that no one is spared, and here we are talking about something that should be a panda. So Kolesar, Mali, Vlahovic, Dinkic, these are all examples. It's supposed to be in textbooks when it comes to fighting corruption. So where did you get Mladjan Dinkcic, so he was in one of the government's summons, who called Mladjan Dinkic, to see how he got so much wealth, where that group, which, even the Agency here, lists as one of the major problems, which is the Association of Citizens, how did he get so much freedom and who gave him up to be responsible for G17? They took the money, picked up the money, and what do they care? Here's the NGO, where the same agency finds out, so where are these so-called. humanitarian organisations, not associations of citizens who made a political option, then entered parliament, under very strange relations, but conditionally speaking by humanitarian organisations. Where is your humanitarian organization, Dragica Nikolic? Where you published it, how malfeasance it is, because it was stronger than Djokovic, when it comes to finance. Has anyone announced that there's been some kind of investigation, that there's been an income analysis? It's nobody. Then do not show examples of others who were. First at your house, then point to the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57880	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57881	What Mr. Mircic just said to me seems a little childish, I have some paper, but I'm not going to show it to you. I don't know where I can find him. I'll ask Mr. Sikimic. Mr. Sikimic, where I can at the Anti-Corruption Agency find your position to Sinisha Mali, should not be president of this commission. If you can help me, since Mr. Mircic won't, I'll be very grateful. All right, I'll pay, tell me how much it costs. Mr. Mircic, I've said it more than once. Mladjan Dinkic, from the executive and Serbian government, was not expelled by either you or your party, but by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, and not only Mladjan Dinkic, the entire DOS regime, and Bozidar Djelic, and Mladjan Dinkic, and this Vlahovic and all others you listed and some you did not count. So, all those people who were responsible for the robbery of Serbia from 2000 to 2012, from the political scene of Serbia, were driven away by Aleksandar Vukic and drove out the SNS and no one else did. It is the biggest historical political success of SNS and Aleksandra Vukic. Whether some other state bodies, such as courts and prosecutors, have done their job well or not, are now a completely different issue, but we have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to people from the regime that ruled Serbia until 2000. We removed from power, i.e. Aleksandar Vuk and SNS and Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas and all of those from DS and Mladjan Dinkic and Vlahović and Cvetkovic and Nikezic, and interrupted all possible corruption affairs that were related to the privatisation process. Tell me from 2012, then on, so until today, did it happen... First of all, I don't think there's been any record of any privatisation of what was a classic privatisation under the Privatisation Act since 2001. Secondly, everything we've been doing, and you've also alluded to that, everything about investment in Serbia's foreign investors, it's absolutely legal. I know that you insist on it for political reasons as well as others in the opposition and want to show that the investment process in Serbia is followed by corruption, I tell you that it is not because all investments, better said, all subsidies given to investors, are given under the State Aid Act, and the State Aid Act does not make absolutely any difference between domestic and foreign capital, between domestic and foreign investors. Anyone who meets the conditions of the State Aid Act gets state aid. This state aid in some situations is expressed in money, in some situations it is expressed in that under more favourable conditions you can get building land, in some situations by obtaining the so-called land. "text Hollywood", or some time period during which you are exempt from paying taxes, but this applies to both domestic and foreign investors. I believe you know this, but I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, because in one part of the public, the opinion that Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Serbia are allegedly seeking to favour only foreign investors and to give them some subsidies that are completely past the law. No subsidies in Serbia and no form of state aid given to domestic, foreign investors, were given under the law, given in accordance with the State Aid Act. This is not only the Republic of Serbia, this model of attracting investors is a model that has been accepted in almost all Central and Southeast European countries. So these are all those countries that used to be called real-socialist... (President: Bringing the end. Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57882	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57883	Mr. Mrcic, I was talking about the case of Dragan Gilas, and you are responding to the story of corruption at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I don't know if you thought it would change the subject in a successful way. But no, so it's not a change of subject. Do you know why? Because Dragan Gilas himself boasts that he started some business at the time, during the time of Slobodan Milosevic, how does he defend himself when we ask himself – well, you had nothing, when you entered the political scene and took the most important functions? He says, "Stop, stop, it's not like that." It's not like I didn't have anything. I founded a company in 1998. As it could, it was explained by his Bosko Obradovic, you remember that. We read it here. Bosko Obradovic says in one of his texts – Dragan Djilas began dealing with some small business, only at the time Slobodan Milosevic could those who were politically close to the regime at the time. That's what Bosko Obradovic explained, so he forgot. That's why I'm telling you, you're not out of the picture. It also concerns Gilas Dragana. As much as he earned, I'm not sure he was particularly successful by 2004, that is, when he was officially promoted by his then chief, Boris Tadic. Do you know why? Because he had nothing to report. He didn't have to report the property. He reported some savings that are measured by thousands of euros, an old car and one real estate, so I guess it's a woman's name, and that's all. That's what he reported to own. So that's what he started with, that's his initial capital. What he's done and what he's reporting, watch out, that's not what I'm saying, that's what Gilas himself says - 25 million euros worth of real estate alone is ready to report. He confessed. That's what he confessed, what there is yet to be admitted, we can only wonder and wonder. Where did hundreds of millions of euros go, that set him up in company accounts? Let me tell you, you mentioned that period of the SPS and the case of some two ministers, probably trying to say that only when someone's overbearing is someone starting to deal with, as you said, themselves and their ranks and you're wrong. You are wrong, because look at every year, not only in the previous 2018, look at 2017, look at 2016, look at 2015, every year you will find in the news that is now on the Internet to read them if you want, that the Ministry of the Interior took, so it brought some people to an organized action, which are also political figures and officials, not only the former regime or today's opposition, but also the ruling parties and they have never and never made a difference, not when it comes to SNS officials if they have wronged the law. The Ministry of the Interior, for you to know, is doing its job so seriously, doing it so successfully, that today, and this is your official data, we have 20% less criminal activity at the level of a year in the Republic of Serbia, 20% less than in 2009, 2010 and 2011. When Dragan Djilas and his camels are accounted for, with Nebojsa Stefanovic, they cannot dispute the results, no one can come and say - Here, there were so many criminal acts in 2009, 2010 and 2011, and this is how many, for example, in 2018, we, Stefanovic, were more successful than you. No, they're not. They know they didn't. It's such a big difference that I can't say one word. That's why they deal with pure, dirty propaganda, which is why they deal with debauchery, because, as you know, hundreds of millions of euros didn't make Dragan Gilas as he earned them, because he was doing some kind of production of something good and concrete, but by simmering, marifettelus, right in the media sphere, just reselling advertising seconds at ten times the price of the one at which he bought. So, this kind of, uh, dirty media work, which he specializes in, and for which he can certainly give himself the best titles, medals and diplomas, he deserves how well he knows that kind of propaganda, he applies today to honest people, to correct professionals, to responsible people from the SNS, just because he designs them for political enemies, besides, as we know, stupid, ugly, dirty, dirty, none of our votes in the election are worth anything, so since we win these elections, then in the opinion of Gilas and the team, it's best to choose none and not be. What kind of half-humans and savages decide, not him so handsome, so smart and so unfeelingly rich?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57884	The word is given by Mr Dragan Sikimic, as an authorised representative of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57885	Thank you, Chairman. The Anti-Corruption Agency has never declared itself to be the leader of the co-ordination team, which was mentioned here, to fight against money laundering and to fight terrorism. Of course there is no such thing, given the period, neither in the Report, nor in writing to the Agency has ever commented on it. Whoever commented that, I don't know, but the Anti-Corruption Agency didn't. As for the other topics that have been presented or views, I would like to tell you that in terms of perception and corruption or the perception index, as the CPI or the "Corruption Perceptions Index" quoted it as saying without translation, it's a matter of perception of certain angles and the methodology for making these reports is very complex. That's not the perception of citizens, you should know first. Secondly, compare countries that are well on the list with GRECO and you will be surprised, of course, that I will not mention a single country, that those countries that are very well on the list in terms of perception, have a negative GREKO at the same time, and that is globally unsatisfactory. Just compare that and bear in mind that Serbia is no longer on that list and that Serbia no longer has its status in front of GRECO globally unsatisfactory. In terms of international co-operation, of course corruption has long been an international problem, an international phenomenon and, therefore, the fight against corruption must be international. We've increased international co-operation, of course. We have excellent relations with relevant institutions, not just from the region, but beyond. Of course, the fight against corruption is linked to the fight against illegal trafficking, that it is all linked to the fight against money laundering, that it is linked together with the fight against terrorism and that it is not necessary to separate one another. The Agency is currently working on a better integration for better work and performance in its segment of work. In terms of bias or impartiality, I assure you that the Agency is impartial. When the moment of change is looked at, when the moment is looked at, the moment is checked from two years from the day of termination of the post and when all deadlines are taken into account, as well as representation in the current political constitution, it is concluded that the Agency is working on the largest number of cases, in relation to members of the ruling coalition. Look at only hundreds of objects and you will see that the Agency absolutely does not have a biased relationship with anyone, but an impartial relationship. This is what one who knows the numbers and who knows the dates, who knows the years and who knows the provisions of the law can clearly see, and we can do so in front of both the international community and the National Assembly and in front of any authority of the Republic of Serbia, but since we are responding to the National Assembly, then we are doing so in this place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57886	Thank you, Mr. Sikimic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57887	You'll remember, Mr. Sikimic, it just takes time, obviously. As for this, Mr. Martinovic, here, I give you a cause for replication, I reckon your colleague won't interrupt you as before, because it's very interesting, not bringing foreign capital has begun, nor ends with Alexander Vukic coming. The arrival of foreign capital is an investor from earlier. Mr. Martinovicu, you well know what kind of dirty technology is installed on behalf of foreign investments in the Indji municipality. Remember that affair, when it comes to old batteries and reparations of old batteries, which is one of the dirtiest technologies? Well, what do you think, a foreign investor came in so pretty and did it under the law? No, it's bribery, corruption. There's a reasonable doubt that it's done that way. It's in a long time. And when it comes to corruption, it neither begins nor ends with the current current current power. But what's interesting here? It's interesting here in all the debates that are being held about the Anti-Corruption Agency or anything related to the possible existence of crime, regardless of which one of the authorities, when you call the current politicians and put them as an example, everyone jumps, they're all unique when it comes to power and when it comes to those who should deal with it, with this phenomenon, to defend the current ones. As soon as they get through, it's all the worst. I'd be happy to use that -- later brains are the worst of their minds. She's not using anything to Serbia. After four or five years, or, God forbid, for a long time, we will discuss some who are now current, as we are talking about Djelic, Dinkic, Vlahovic, Labus, cannot even stand still, Janjusevic, Kolesar and so on. Why are we talking now about Dragan Gilas or those that aren't current? And then there were reports of their work, of their suspicions, of corruption, of everything, but they were silent. Why was he silent? Because at the time, most were in such a mood not to mention it. No, but on the case of current ones, it should be made clear that there is no compromise. That's the point. What if we mentioned Zorana Mihajlovic? Well, what else do you need than a doubt about Bechtel? There's a reasonable doubt, a public suspicion, and you're looking at who's saying it. What difference does it make? We're talking, Serbian radicals. John Perkins wrote two books. Read, gentlemen, "Emergency Killers". One of the hitting topics is ‘Bechtel’. Corruption and bribes go into the market and do whatever they want and then get involved actively in politics later. Don't, it's all fleeting. Well, this power is fleeting, too, everybody knows that. A function in itself is a challenge for a man to go into something that is against the law. If we forgive those who were... Well, I'll just have one experience to tell. Do you know what Radovan Bozovic said when he was removed from the post of Prime Minister? I can't wait for a new one to come, they'll forget me. Is that supposed to be a rule in Serbia - when you leave, then everyone forgets you. I hope you'll give your colleague the right to a replica and not interrupt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57888	Of course, there's no need. It's a great debate. Now the right to replica has Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57889	I thank you, Chairman. Given that in this region between SRS and SNS representatives, the SPS has been mentioned, I have to determine myself accordingly. It is true what the esteemed counterpart Mircic said, that at a time when Slobodan Milosevic was the SPS president, only in order to fight corruption and protect Serbia's interests, i.e. the legal order, he was arrested, no less, no more, two ministers. What adorns the SPS is consistency and principle, because we now participate in power. We share the same system of values and the same principles of power with the SNS and we fight for everyone responsible for what he's guilty of. That no one can be outside the law and that everyone who does anything wrong must respond, whether they belong to a ruling or opposition party. I have to remind the citizens of Serbia that after 5 October, most of those who were exposed to the link were members of the SPS, who were on the shooting lists, who were literally persecuted, chiced, baselessly prosecuted, their families exposed to the highest degree of unhappiness, and this went through a catharsis that did not last for a while. From October 5th and beyond, the guilty or the executioners of that time are no longer here, and there are their followers. I had to say that because of the citizens of Serbia, because there are very few of them who have welcomed what they deserve, and that is a sanction not only from the court, but also from the people. Fortunately, the people have an election from election to election, and I hope it stays that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57890	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Right on the replica of Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57891	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I still can't understand what sin is and what guilt is Cynthia the Little. From everything Mr. Mircic said, I simply cannot understand it, and I can't understand it, except he complains that he's been an employee of the Privatisation Agency for two years, but I don't know that he's responsible for any robbery privatisation that has damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia. He left the Privatisation Agency in 2003. What I can say is what the citizens of Serbia can see for themselves and that I tell them nothing, that Sinisa Mali managed to consolidate, above all, the public finances of the city of Belgrade, to financially strengthen the city of Belgrade, to repay the debts of the city of Belgrade made by Dragan Gilas, which were not at all small amounts. When he became finance minister, he proved to be a very successful minister who continued with a policy of consolidation of public finances, launched by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, and today is being conducted by the Serbian government led by Ana Brnabic. Under the leadership of Sinisha Maloga, as finance minister, Serbia has recorded a surplus in its budget for the third year in a row, year by year we have GDP growth. As for the corruption process involved in the process of bringing foreign investors, I agree with you that it was in the period until 2012, but I would like you to tell me one corruption affair after 2012, which was related to attracting any domestic, foreign capital in Serbia. So we no longer share subsidies as they were divided by 2012, without any criteria. Now there is this roof, basic law, the State Aid Act, which sets out very clearly under which conditions investors, both domestic and foreign, can get a certain type of state aid and that law is followed by a whole series of sublaws. Since I personally participated in bringing in several important investors, I have made sure that this is a painful and difficult job to meet the conditions of the State Aid Act so that the investor can get some kind of state aid. I repeat again, this is not aid reserved solely for foreign investors. Under the same conditions, both domestic and foreign investors are receiving state aid. What's wrong with domestic investors? They were financially and economically ruined because of the government that managed Serbia until 2012, and that is very well known to you. Most domestic investors, therefore, have good business plans, which have good business ideas, who want to hire citizens of Serbia, who are no less smart, inventive than their colleagues from abroad, but what are they missing, or what are foreign investors ahead of them for? They did not experience the economic cataclysm experienced by domestic businessmen. That's the problem. You have had a period since 2000, or since 2001, when the Privatisation Act was passed, a complete devastation of the Serbian economy. We have practically started from scratch since 2012, and we have done a big job, and this big job can be called one name, which is the re-industrialisation of the Republic of Serbia. We are in the period, if you look at purely economically, here we are not running any political debates, purely economically, from 2000 to 2012 we were less of a rural, agrarian country. Our industry was completely destroyed. From Saturday to Vranj, there was no industrial complex that was not destroyed. Both in Subotica, both in Valjevo and Vranj, and in Smederevo, in many cities in Serbia that were once known in the former Yugoslavia as large industrial centres, Trstenik, Kruševac etc. It was all destroyed. All these companies were sold under very suspicious circumstances, according to sums that were below any market value, and what was worst of all, even though those who bought these companies continued production, they turned them into warehouses, car salons, warehouses, buildings, housing buildings, etc. What did we start to do in 2012, 2013, 2014? To re-industrize Serbia, and that was a good thing that went hand in hand, among other things, because we were leading a smart and balanced foreign policy. I know that you are now in the position of a party that is opposition and which has one easy, or slightly more comfortable status than we are in power. You say we should banish all foreign investors, we don't need investors from Germany, Italy, France, they're in the NATO Pact, they're countries that bombed us, etc. That's the good part right there. What about the workers who work in these companies? What about the fact that 70% of our exports go to the EU market? Okay, we're going to close down all the German, Italian, French companies that opened their representations here in Serbia. Otherwise, these are all domestic companies, operating under the Business Society Act, registered in the Republic of Serbia, at the Business Registers Agency, employing Serbian citizens, paying taxes and contributions under Serbia's laws. So these are not foreign companies in the sense that they operate under the laws of Germany. The capital is German, capital is Italian, capital is French, but that capital when it comes to Serbia, it operates under Serbian laws and Serbian regulations, as well as Serbian capital. It is a great success of this government led by Aleksandar Vukic and now run by Ana Brnabic. (President: Thank you. I'm done. The capital can be domestic and foreign, but when foreign capital comes to Serbia, it is subject to the same legal regime as Serbian capital, and that is what is very important. So we re-industrialized Serbia. We are no longer a mere agricultural country that exports raw corn, wheat, sugar tail, etc. (President: Thank you. ) Now we can process these agricultural products and place them on the EU market, the Russian Federation market and wherever our products can go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57892	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57893	I'm sorry you're breaking up like this. Mr. Martinovic has just made some claims... (President: You can do it by the end of the day, no problem. Here you go. ) It is not about the time, but about some claims that the SRS had previously made. You've been doing criminal acts, paraphrasing how he said it, when it comes to privatisation, when it comes to a period of foreign investment. We Serbian radicals are not at all in a privileged position, nor are we comfortable. It is very difficult from day to day to point to the failures of the current authorities. Just remember, Mr. Martinovic, you yourself took part in how much we warned against the dangers of Fiat from Kragujevac, the way Fiat was introduced into Kragujevac. That's when we said it would cost Serbia dearly. Subsidies of 10,000 euros per employee, uncertainty regarding the length of the entire process, the exemption from different tax payments, expenditures. It's something that's at the expense of Serbia. That may have been a good propaganda moment under the current rule of the current government, as elections were held at the outset. They put it on all the bells. You remember how much they put in. What do we do now? How do they show up now? Who's going to explain to Kragujevci workers now? You, who are current. Explain what to them? By saying we weren't involved in it. It's the easiest, but where good luck they've ever listened to us Serbian radicals, to get more careful into that arrangement. And now there's a lot of things where we point out, where we say that it's not exactly justifiable that so many subsidies are given. In some cases, we're not against capital entry, so no matter what side, we just insist that equal treatment has Russian capital, that's all. There insists the SRS, all the capital to be equal and others to do so in a literal, real sense, domestic companies, not to open up a "Gorenje" factory in Valjevo, and then profit goes to Slovenia, so this serves to make it more favourable for the Russian market. Well, what's that for? What good is it to say what the workers in Valyev will do? Well, what about the workers in Valjev, the cheap labor force. It is necessary to look sober, it is not easy in the situation in which Serbia is. One thing is always meant to be, you well know Mr. Martinovic in 2000, what a heik she was, as they say of the former government. All ministers who were ahead of the SRS were the subject of an investigation into the coming Bulldozer of the Revolution. They looked at all the details. No SRS minister was responsible for anything that was against the law, because they couldn't prove it, there were no such actions, they weren't in crime, they weren't in corruption. You think we'd forgive, no, we'd hardly wait. So now we talk, warn, paint is on time, and when it comes to "Bechtel" and when it comes to the work of both Sinishi Mali and all of them, it is better to be careful in time. Later that responsibility, you will see when it comes to the shift of power, will be attributed to you who are the most prominent in the SRS. You think someone will remember, as Mladjan Dinkic now does not remember and these, nobody will remember you but Mr. Martinovic, and the greatest responsibility he will have right now will bear and carry Alexander Vukic, as the people would say - neither onion ate nor onion smelled, but you will see. You'll see the responsibility, not to Tommy I'll never object to what his wife and he's doing, but to Alexander Vukic, which doesn't take care of it. That's the point. You will bear responsibility, and these are transitory. I have to bring this document to you, Mr. President alone, where there's an opinion about Cynthia Malloy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57894	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to a replica has Dr. Martinovic. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57895	It is mentioned "Gorenje" from Valjev. One piece of information for you, Mr. Mircic. The majority owner of Gornja, whose head office is located in Slovenia, is the Chinese. So, the majority owner of Burning is the Chinese. Chinese company Hisens, for the record. When Burning produces a refrigerator or another cooling device in Valjevo, so the cooling device goes to Russia, it does not go as a Slovenian, nor as a Chinese product, but as a Serbian. That's what you should know. Secondly, what you keep repeating, and you think that is probably one of your main arguments against SNS' economic policy, is that Serbian citizens, under the authority of Alexander Vukic, have been converted into cheap labour. That's just not true. The average salary in Serbia today is 463 euros and you can't find any company that has come to Serbia since 2014, so to this day, it means for these five years, in which workers do not work for decent salaries and under very humane conditions by technology, which is the most modern possible. That story, that's usually the story of Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, who when they didn't know what to do, Balša Bozovic said that this Chinese company we brought to Obrenovac "Meita", that the citizens of Obrenovac were turned into slaves and that the Chinese were some slave owners. Then Aleksandra Jerkov, again because she had no other arguments, began to claim that Serbian workers working by companies whose founding capital came from abroad must wear diapers. I have repeatedly asked her which company in Serbia, whether domestic, any foreign Serb worker must wear diapers? There aren't any. Like the Chinese, "Meita" in Obrenovac didn't turn citizens into slaves so they don't wear diapers and like you're wrong about "burning." So, the Serbian product made in Valjevo, when it goes to the EU market, goes to the Russian Federation market as a Serbian product. Milorad Mirlic: And the money goes to Slovenia. Money goes to China, if we're going to talk about money flows. Money goes to China, you stand for friendship with China, I don't know what your problem is. So, according to your logic, the money from Serbia goes to Slovenia, so they go from Slovenia to China. What is much more important for Serbian citizens, both Gorenje and Hachinson and all other companies operating in Serbia, pay taxes and contributions in Serbia. Salaries pay Serbian workers and operate absolutely according to Serbian laws. Under all laws relating to both companies and environmental protection, social protection, protection of workers' rights, respect for the Labour Act, etc. In this regard, there is no discrimination between domestic and foreign investors. As for Bechtella and the Serbian citizens should know, you insist on it, I understand why you insist, for political reasons, but in the law we passed the other day, there is no mention of Bechtel. It is mentioned that the Serbian government will elect a strategic partner to perform works on the so-called "Serbs". Moravian corridor. And it will be Bechtel. ) Well, you say--it'll be "Bechtel," I'm telling you that in law it says... (Milorad Mircic: The squirrel says it will be Bechtel.) ) Okay, Verica says -- it will be "Bechtel", I tell you that the law says that, and Serbian citizens can read that the choice of a strategic partner will be made by the government of Serbia according to the criteria that will be favourable to the state of Serbia, for Serbian citizens, and especially for those citizens living on the path of that Moravia Corridor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57896	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. There were five, six replicas. I thank both Dr Martinovic and Mr Mircic. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57897	Thank you, Chairman. We've been patiently listening to all these replicas, so I expect, if I'm out of time, you're not interrupting me. Dear guests, representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mr. Sikimic, with colleagues, we from JS usually say for something that is good or excellent - household. So the report you filed in front of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2018 is really domestic. You will have the support of the JS parliamentary group, we will support and adopt a report on the work, so that JS MP Dragan Markovic Palma, who otherwise gave a positive assessment of the work report for 2018 of the Anti-Corruption Agency, with a report on the implementation of a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia and an action plan for its implementation, submitted by National Assembly Director Dragan Sikimic. So you will also have full support in further work for everything the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing. I will also commend your cooperation with the National Assembly. With all the three committees you've been working with, you've had a positive report. I am a member of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and we are on the Committee on Justice, in accordance with Article 238, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed your work report and the Committee found that the report fully presented the Agency's work for 2018 and there is nothing controversial but also the implementation of a national strategy and action plan. It is also commendable that the budget has been increased compared to 2017 and that more staff of the Anti-Corruption Agency has been employed, it will certainly contribute and improve your work by the Agency itself. As for the recommendations you made in this report, I believe that further co-operation with the National Assembly, as well as with the ministries, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and the recommendations will be implemented in the coming period. Unique Serbia supports the efforts and activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency in strengthening the integrity and responsibilities of the institution's officials, but also in working to combat corruption in general. It certainly commends the Agency's co-operation to fight corruption with the national Anti-Corruption Agency of Italy. Serbia has received the right, to say, to become a member of one such agency despite these 15 countries that are members of that agency, it is commendable that you, Mr. Sikimic, are one of the two vice presidents of this agency. The issue of corruption is very important for Serbia, as well as for the citizens of Serbia, and it should be spoken of openly. So, for the past 15 years, and through these replicas, we have made a summary of what happened from 2000 to 2012, there have been major problems with corruption and a huge number of illegal actions that can be undertaken under the terms of corruption. The government and all parties in the ruling majority are struggling for reforms, for which the Anti-Corruption Law is fully applied. A unique Serbia with our coalition partners of the SPS, gave its full support to SNS, President Aleksandr Vukic in the fight for better and safer Serbia and for better citizens' lives. Of course, we will support all reforms, and we have passed a law in the National Assembly, which is run by the Anti-Corruption Agency and all praises in the work. As for Serbia itself when it comes to the status of corruption, a negative assessment of the anti-corruption body of the Council of Europe was abolished in March of this year, thus entering a circle of civilised countries that do not have a particularly negative rating already in some standard regime. This is also the success of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the National Assembly, and all citizens of Serbia, because the Agency, or GRECO, is not concerned with perception, deals with concrete work results. You have accepted a very serious function and you show one great responsibility in this work. We of the JS parliamentary group believe that if corruption exists, it must not be privileged and everyone must respond equally, because that is the only way we can get in the way of the greatest enemy of modern society. We are witnessing that today is much less corruption than, say, in 2012, when we had major inherited problems from the previous government and when millions of government debts were made, but also the municipalities, large factories were closed, giants were closed, workers were out of work, it was all a big problem with corruption, which now, we are trying in every possible way and legal basis, to root out and fix. When we ask citizens what's the most common thing and in those reports that we get, what they often complain about, they say it's nepotism, cousinly, friendly relationships. There was a lot more until 2012. I will not criticise other municipalities, I will also say for my municipality very openly from which I come Alexandrovec, a negative report has been given when it comes to employment, where for the last 15 years there have been very few competitions or there have been none, or if there have been, people have been hired in advance or who will be hired. That's what we have to get in the way, because what people are gonna do, that's how we get young. What are people who are 35, 40, who don't have the right to work? So in that area, I think that when it comes to MPs, ministers, public officials at all, so we can't hide our true condition, we can possibly do something incomplete in that report that we later supplement. But, therefore, local self-government must also be the subject of an absolute anti-corruption agency, and especially when it comes to employment, we must stand in the way of all having equal chances. Finally, I will only say that JS MP Dragan Markovic Palma will support your report, we will adopt a report that Serbia, in every possible way, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is struggling to bring foreign investors, fighting for all cities, all municipalities to be equally developed. I believe that this way of fighting will continue, that smaller cities will also get factories and that simply Serbia will become a better place for citizens to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57898	Thank you, colleague Vujic Obradovic. The word is Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57899	Thank you, Chairman. Dear directors with associates, respected fellow MPs, today we are discussing a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2018 with a report on the implementation of a national anti-corruption strategy and an action plan to implement a national anti-corruption strategy. The overall goal of the strategy is to remove corruption as an obstacle to the economic, social and democratic development of the Republic of Serbia to the greatest extent possible. The consequences of corruption are not only in the poverty of society and state, but also in the dramatic decline of citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. It is very important to create the uncertainty and instability of the economic system, which is reflected among other things and in the reduction of investment. According to a World Economic Forum 2011-2013 survey, corruption is set in the right of two problems that are crucial to foreign investment in the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that it is not possible in a limited period and with limited resources to solve problems in all areas where corruption can occur. This strategy lists certain areas where priority will be given, which have been recognised as key to building up system anti-corruption mechanisms, which have worked intensively in the previous period. Your report shows significant activities that the Anti-Corruption Agency has had in the domain of international co-operation. My colleagues spoke about this in previous statements, but I think it should be mentioned and it is very important that the Republic of Serbia is among the first to be called as one of the founders of the Anti-Corruption Agency network with the aim of promoting, exchanging information and good practice among the institutions to prevent and combat corruption. It is very important that we are among, in the report, 18 countries, you said today in your presentation that 19 countries are currently, likely to have increased, a member of this network and it is very important that the Republic of Serbia is recognised as one of the countries of great interest to find it in that network and that, in line with the exchange of information with the countries in the network of agencies, improve its work significantly through exchanges of experiences and exchange of good practices, and in order to prevent and make a stronger account with corruption in its country. The report also shows that the software solution and methodology of drawing up the integrity plan implemented by the Agency has been nominated for the UN Prize for Innovation in Public Administration. These are significant indicators that there is developed awareness and political will in the Republic of Serbia to make significant progress in the fight against corruption. Somehow even in previous years, mainly the focus was on the capital and larger cities, probably because of the media that were concentrated there, so the local self-governments were isolated and left to themselves, which was an ideal field for corruption. In particular, I would like to stress that the application of the concept of a local anti-corruption plan and a rural anti-corruption plan proposed by the Agency is of utmost importance. A system of support for local self-government units for the construction and adoption of a local anti-corruption plan has been established and bodies have been formed to monitor, implement this document. The report shows that 59% of the total number of local self-governments adopted these plans and I hope that this percentage will be higher this year. Why is this particularly important? We talked about Chapter 23 today. The action plan for Serbia to negotiate EU membership for Chapter 23 envisions strengthening preventive anti-corruption mechanisms at the level of local self-government, in line with this commitment and the results achieved by the Agency, and I would particularly praise that. I must point out that the public is constantly interested in checking the report and monitoring the property situation of officials and that in the previous year, according to your report, 186 procedures have been initiated at the republican level and at the local level of 116 procedures. The prevention of corruption also involves raising awareness of its harmfulness, which is why the Agency pays great attention to citizens' performances. Even 474 items in the previous year were completed according to these performances. This certainly contributes to restoring citizens' confidence in this institution and I think it is very important. You also made certain recommendations in the report that the Agency's work would improve. I would like to point out that, first and foremost, and you have stated that the Anti-Corruption Act is to specify the position of the Agency and extend its powers and rights, including the right to direct access to the records and documentation of state authorities and organisations and other legal entities of importance for the procedures conducted by the Agency. Also, to provide a legal framework to strengthen the Agency's capacity to achieve greater efficiency in its work. It is very important to adopt a new national anti-corruption strategy, as a complement to the Chapter 23 Action Plan, to define the remaining objectives and measures of importance for the fight against corruption in the Republic of Serbia. In my opinion, it is very important to step up co-operation with other state bodies in the field of combating corruption, in the sense of the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's competence in combating organised crime, terrorism and corruption. The recommendations set out are in line with the conclusions of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which states among other things that the National Assembly recommends that the Government undertake all necessary activities to ensure that the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Goals Act is fully applied through the continued strengthening of transparency in the work of the national authorities. The National Assembly also undertakes to ensure the harmonisation of legal solutions and create a unique and consistent legal framework governing the fight against corruption. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia fully support the efforts and activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency in strengthening the integrity and responsibilities of institutions and officials, as well as management employees, in order to combat corruption both in the administration and in society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57900	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57901	Thank you, Your Honor. We have heard more than once today about the importance of the existence of the Anti-Corruption Agency and its results so far. Of course, as MPs who come from areas where corruption and crime flourish, we are not fully satisfied with the work of this agency so far. I will remind you of April 2018 when corruption was discussed here in this room. It was the construction of roads in 37 villages in the Tutin municipality, where evidence was offered that money was taken from citizens. At that time, the prime minister said the government would launch an emergency investigation. We expected the Anti-Corruption Agency to really work on the prime minister's order, but so far we have not received anything concrete. Here's a particular question for the Agency, is there anything at all about taking money from citizens to make roads, say, at these locations where absolutely none of the local officials, as it was done in the Tutin municipality, had any legal basis to take money from citizens? Of course, I will also remind myself of the "junica" affair, when it was found that the Mayor of Sjenica shared 102 heifers from the state fund with his relatives. The agency did something about it, but we never got the final epilogue of it. Not to mention the time when Mr. Ugljanin, since these were all his staffs, both in Tutina and in Sjenica were headed by the Agency for the Development of underdeveloped areas, when various agricultural tools were assigned, plastics, motocultivators and other, quite irregular, quite illegal, and relatives, to people living in salters, in buildings, but we have never seen anyone from the Agency process such abuse of authority, here, neither at the local nor at the state level. It simply brings citizens from these areas into some kind of dilemma, whether there is someone who protects, say, those people who deal with corruption in these parts, whether it suits someone, why not all those who abuse public funds, municipal budgets, state budgets, what follows the citizens and what is assigned to them, in the end, and whether the Agency has even launched any processes on this issue, and, in particular, I am stressing again, given that the prime minister here, in this room, when answering MPs' questions, has indicated that the government will urgently launch an investigation into the issue of taking money from citizens to make roads. We expected then that the first one would be included by the Anti-Corruption Agency, but we don't know, no one ever announced, the Agency never answered on this issue. Of course, we have other cases, when applications have been filed to the Anti-Corruption Agency for various types of abuses from different projects, i.e. finance, and local budgets and everything else, but the Agency has never advertised on this issue. Finally, I will mention the famous report on the abuse of 20m euros from the New Pazar City budget, when Mr. Ugljanin of the mayor's position abused the budget and took 20m euros. It's that time, a million kebabs eaten and so on. The Agency has never said anything about that. Simply, are there double arches when it comes to these abuses in the fight against corruption, or is it simply a failure, a failure? We'd like the Agency to be really equally involved in all corruption, but of all these examples, I've only listed those most visible, the media most present and the most normal would be that you're dealing with cases like this, but we haven't had cases so far. I'm taking the opportunity to ask why there was no such procession and whether finally the Anti-Corruption Agency will start dealing with these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57902	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. Now I'm setting a break of an hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57903	We're going back to work. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57904	I thank the chairman. Dear gentlemen of the Anti-Corruption Agency, today your report is ahead of us and I will begin by saying that in the Republic of Serbia there is zero tolerance for corruption, especially since 2012, by coming to power of the SNS, then Prime Minister, present-day President Aleksandr Vukic and Mr. Minister Stefanovic, who plays an outstanding role in preventing corruption. You're here to initiate court proceedings, and I'm sure you're doing your job well, honorably and honestly, and don't ever succumb to any pressures from any side and under any influence. What I liked about your report is, above all, you have established good international co-operation, which is extremely important in combating both domestic crime and international crime, but I also liked that the EU participated in a tweening project or prevention and the fight against corruption with two million euros. Three countries were involved, all to prevent corruption. That's how you got a much better shot, I see there's been a lot of education, that you've been doing comparative analysis, and that's very good. What's not good, the mass of people in the previous period remained unprocessed, and I don't know how at all, but probably someone was there from you, someone didn't, I don't want to get into it. For example, how is it possible that someone who reported their assets, I think specifically of Mr. Gilas who reported his property in 2004, amounted to 74,000 euros, an old car and one real estate. Today, he officially reports that he has 25m euros, be careful, it is 25m euros, that he has 1,460m2 in real estate, and nobody has talked about him having another 500m euros that he has earned from his four firms, and that's what he knows. His Adi bridge affair, we remember that 0.9km costs 400m euros, nonsens, the project was supposed to cost 80m euros, so 100m euros, and 150m euros. Where did that 250m euros go, that's what I'm interested in? Because the same bridge, I apologize, three times, two and a half kilometers long, the highest in France costs 400m euros. As it disappears in a magical way, only 250m euros. This Mr. Gilas has owed the city a billion and 200m euros, is it possible that gentlemen have not wondered how it is possible for someone to owe the city a billion and 200m euros. The total debt of our Republic of Serbia following the departure of the Dossage Authority in 2012 is 26 billion euros. They say 14, so it's not true, they didn't report the debts of public enterprises, they didn't report everything and everything. They were taking interest loans, 7, 8, 9, 12%, we're returning it now. That's what we need to investigate. Secondly, his affairs among other sixm euros in underground containers, of course there was no public procurement. We don't know what happened. Platan cutting, no public procurement. Let's move on, bus plus, no public procurement. Furthermore, the "watchel City" that was supposed to be a wonderful place for children on Vozdovac, 350m, thousands of euros missing by the untraceable, have never received a useful license. Of course, the public procurement in 2009 did not exist. A safe place that didn't work for a single day, on the street is that, without a toilet knot, without a sanitary knot, with nothing. That's terrible. She became a house of horrors and horrors. Unusable. The replica "Terroria", you don't know how much it costs, there's no public procurement. So, just one totally disrespecting attitude towards the state, one total corruption. I'm just terrified. Let's move on, as far as it's possible that no one knows where Mr. Jeremic got seven million for the campaign. The same one he asked for when he went to the UN seven million, and he got a million and that was a lot. He's asked for seven advisors, but that doesn't matter, I'm interested in this, where did he get seven million euros for the campaign? Let's move on, as it is possible that the current defence minister, who according to the data, means that I didn't say that, I don't say, but simply the internet, websites, many people who were involved in researching corruption and crime, to afford a million-euro apartment without a day's employment. It's not an apartment, it's an apartment and plus an upgrade of 139 square feet of pent house. How is it possible that this man who had not previously had a day's internship on the book today has 300,000 euros. So 300,000 euros! Let's move on, as it is possible that Mr Djelic, we remember all the famous Mr Djelic who came as an expert from France, I don't know whose expert, I know that this country is tired of 10m euros. How is it possible that no one knows where 10m euros went missing, remember that he was miserable and that he slept at his aunt's couch. Poor thing, well, if I knew, so let's take him in, we'll take him in, like, 10 million euros, just him. Let's move on, Mr. Zivkovic, the prime minister, and Europe has said about him, about 24 controversial privatisations, and one of them was his, disappeared untraceable 100m euros, and then it was Beopetroll, of course, Sartide, but 100m euros -- gone. Let me not tell you about those 596 privatisations, a one-euro sugar cane, huge one-euro firms. That's terrible. Any, it didn't happen again. As possible, Mr. Tadic, the president does not know about all this during his time and during Mr. Kostunica who was then prime minister, then there were these 596 privatisations, and perhaps more, I have so much information. You know what they've been doing, the naked firms, so the naked ones come back to the state. It's terrible. It's never happened again. At the time of Mr Tadic's well-inhabited villa, 300,000 euros, unemployment 26%, fired from 2008 to 2012 400,000 people. Not 400,000 people are their families, so a million people without bread. To get permission to invest anything in this Serbia, you work, it took three years, today you get it from three to 30 days, maximum. Now, that's why we've opened over, that's why 200 companies came in, we've opened over 200 factories, we've hired over 200 million people. But since there's corruption here, we're moving on. How is it possible by 2012, in particular 2012 to be the minimum personal income of 15,000 dinars, they all stole alive, but the minimum of 15,000, and today it is 26,000 with all the return of their 26 billion. Today, the average salary is 460 euros, and it was 330 euros. That's how it works. I'm still interested in how it's possible that someone who's been in power for so many years doesn't make a mile of highways. Imagine that after they were asked by the EU, it was the 2004 Olympics, so they begged them to finish the trip. So everyone would be fine, not if they didn't finish Corridor 10, but they just said it would end in 2004. Yeah, it happened, we weren't able. Well, in 2005, then in 2006, they welcomed in 2008, so that finally Mr. Vukic, the president of the state with his government, with his domestic policy, with budget savings, with the difficult reforms he had implemented, ended Corridor 10. For the first time in history, we have a Serbian highway. Ended in Corridor 10, finished in the south leg, now ends the east leg, we'll finish in Corridor 11. Whatever they started didn't end, they left us a well of unpaid debts and everything. It was interesting for me to hear that at one point they had a 10 priority, none of it. Well, then Corridor 11, they threw themselves at him, and then they need to make money for it, so there's no money for it, so concession, so it's not a good concession, but I'm going to talk about what Mrs., the late Verica Baraq said. But what's terrible is that for the end of Horgos-Novi Sad, 138m euros were missing. We're talking millions of euros. It never happened again. Just one piece of information that was so sad to me that I think, imagine they were taking the road Leskovac-Presevo-Nish to the border. They separate people from eight million euros, and another four, 12 million euros, perfectly, now we're gonna finish those highways. Imagine 12m euros, so what to do with 12m euros, one tunnel costs 5m. So they didn't have four kilometers to go. Shame on them. This isn't how it works. To end, I would like to say what the esteemed late Mrs. Vjerica Barac said – The Anti-Corruption Council considers that the decision on concessions for financing, designing and construction, use and maintenance of the highway from Horgos to Požega, as well as overcoming the competence of the technical government in the event of the conclusion of the concession agreement is a eloquent example of political corruption which must certainly be reflected negatively in all other forms of social activity. That's it, I don't have any further comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57905	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57906	Ladies and gentlemen, corruption is a monster that devours all spheres of society, and is present in all forms of public life, from health, through education and justice, to politics. The most dangerous is certainly the corruption that exists in politics, and the damage of such types of corruption, was that it was the alienation of public property, extortion, fraud or public procurement, measured by billions of euros seized from the state budget. Isolated cases of corruption have always been, but corruption was systematically founded in Serbia only after October 5th, specifically, during the privatisation process and property transformation of enterprises that were socially and state-owned. Activators of Friday's change have shown that in Serbia politics is the most profitable activity. The former officials today are millionaires who have moved from the garrisoniers and tenants to the villas in Dedinj, and have opened companies after leaving office, where, as successful businessmen, are currently turning huge money, although hundreds of thousands of people have ended up on the streets. Many of the changes and privatisations conducted by the former regime, unfortunately stayed on the streets, then ended up on the budget, were unemployed for years, which is why they are receiving minimum pensions today. During that time, actors of peto-octobaric change take part in various economic forums, where they are presented as experts. All of their malfeasances have been forgotten and no one has ever pleaded guilty. I will remind you of some of them: Bozidar Djelic, former head of the economic team Miroljub Labus and finance minister, lives today in a 425 square-metre villa in Senjak; Zoran Janjusevic, former Privatisation Advisor in the government of Zoran Djindjic, lives on Dedinj, in a 1,124 square-metre villa. Similar villas have Nemanja Kolesar and former Minister Predrag Bubalo, and former privatisation minister Aleksandar Vlahovic reported that he owns six or seven apartments and several houses. The same security was provided by Mladjan Dinkic, who destroyed the Serbian banking sector by declaring four domestic banks "Beobank", "Belgrade Bank", "Jugobank" and "Invest Bank" inequitable, so that he could take property and leave the banking sector to foreigners. In the same way, the president of the Liberal Democratic Party, Cedomir Jovanovic, who has been a member of the Serbian Parliament for the day and has thus avoided any criminal responsibility. From the ruling coalition's representatives countless times, every day, we hear about Dragan Gilas, about numerous affairs that follow the construction of the Bridge on Adi, about what Dragan Gilas has, but the fact is that neither Dragan Gilas nor all the previous ones have answered for all these malversions. We from the Serbian Radical Party are not satisfied with the fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency focuses on MPs, although it is known that we MPs receive our salary twice a month, 5th and 20th in the month, that our salaries are limited and that there is indeed very little, if there is any, space for any abuse. And while you're chasing us because we forgot to report something, on the other hand, Serbia is being followed by criminals who have ruined this country. Since neither the previous regimes have resolved the cases, nor the 24 controversial privatisations that the EU has pointed to, and the controversial privatisations were certainly much more than that 24, how do we expect you to decide to solve the problems of corruption in the current regime? In particular, and above all, I mean the case with the American firm Bechtel and her involvement in the construction of the Moravian Corridor. We have often explained here what kind of company it is, that this company is linked to the Republican administration in the United States, which gets direct contracts, thanks to political lobbying, that this is the company that has already built two highways here in the Balkans, Split-Brac shares, Durres-Pristina, that these shares have been overpaid, that in both cases these jobs have ended in arrests and large affairs. Despite all this, Bechtel was also hired in Serbia to build, public procurement was avoided, by signing an agreement with the United States to bypass public procurement and to skip the ratification process in the Senate and the Assembly. A Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the area of infrastructure between our two governments was concluded. Not only that, but the signing of the contract with the Bechtel-Enka consortium was attended by US Ambassador Kyle Scott, who said on that occasion that Kosovo is a de facto independent state. In addition, the price offered by Bechtel is 800m euros and will work on it, while at the same time there was an offer from China's Tea Rouden Bridges to complete the same job by 500m euros, or 300m less. It can be understood why Croatians and Albanians are hiring "Bechtel", because they certainly thus show thanks to the company for its support against Serbia in the 1990 war, for the bombing of Serbia and the disbursement of Serbian territory, but why did our regime accept this kind of business with a company that apparently overcharges its services? Did those 200, 300m euros end up in the pockets of Americans to buy their support in this way, not to destroy the ruling regime and not to finance protests in Belgrade, or did the money end up as a commission in the pocket of the minister who had the most impact on the conclusion of the deal, which is Minister Zorana Mihajlovic? We in the SRS believe that business with Bechtel is both non-transparent and overpaid and very humiliating for Serbia, and we believe that it is your duty to first and foremost resolve such an affair that has largely damaged Serbia's budget, and that only then you focus on monitoring the property reports and the revenues of the MPs. The fight against corruption must involve the whole society, but it is the state that has to take charge of all three branches of government and legislative and executive and judicial. The state can't keep quiet. The state must not skip the affairs of certain persons, just because those persons are in power. Only when you are faced with the problem of corruption will we be able to say that Serbia is going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57907	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57908	It's not the first time we've talked about anything, we provide detailed answers in one part of the debate, and then it's like nothing happened. Same things, same questions, same charges we hear an hour or two later. Today we talked about this issue of building the Moravia Corridor, not only today, but also at this session, and we said that it's good writing, nobody gets a job in advance, and it's not going to be the predetermined value of any job, but the government is going to choose a strategic partner. The fact that someone thinks that no matter how many times they repeat the same thing, that it can change the fact that it's so written, so adopted, it can't. It makes no sense to do something different, and at least it makes sense, and we have heard it today, to dispute that the existence of public interest can be established, so that some major strategic project can be implemented in Serbia. That's what we heard now on the Moravia Corridor case. Here's an open question, is it, in the respect of the SRS lady or the complete SRS, the same goes for example when it comes to agreements, the laws we have adopted, where we have established a special kind of public interest, when it comes to "The Irons" in Smederev? Were they against it or are they against it today? The same question concerns the determination, as we have identified a particular type of interest when it comes to the project "Beeding on Water". I, as far as I know, have reiterated that they support good solutions to Smederjev's Iron, to support the Beograd on Water project, and now they say it can't be done because it's potential corruption. Maybe it's just as important. What about building an important pipeline infrastructure through Serbia? Has the South Stream project or any similar project suddenly become controversial for the SRS? I'd be surprised if he did. They always said it was good, useful for Serbia, it's worth it now and it's a disaster, such as the Corridor or, as is said, any other situation in which a particular kind of public interest is determined. Finally, let there be a few easier questions, since I do not believe that these issues will be easy, questions – are they against the solution for the Smederjevo Iron, against the South Stream or against the "Begrada na Voda"? Here's something a little easier. If we are truly concerned about fighting corruption, are they willing to make their direct contribution in a very simple way, a way that they can apply as much as they can today, to stop corruption in the Old Town municipality, to break up the coalition with Gilas and Bastac, for which every day, but every day you see how many millions of dinars have been torn apart, making budget money on the back of those phantom companies that give him security, while he is breaking up construction sites around Belgrade, which on the subject of SC "Milan Gale Muskatirović", and here seems also on the subject of providing support to people in the form of gerontodomatics, four million euros just for some service that no one has ever justified, and has no proof that it has been realized. If you want us to prevent something, and it's about corruption in the state, at any level, here's to preventing it at Old Town level. If we're honest with each other, and I believe that's not a very difficult question, and the answer would not be too difficult. You say, "Let me." Thank you. We and Gilas and his Bastac have nothing to do with today. Is that hard?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57909	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. After him, she's a colleague of Belacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57910	It's a political party, Mr. Arsic. I have to say, first of all, we're here to attend a rough exchange of thesis. If this is about "Bechtel" as a company that has maximum privileges compared to other construction firms that are able to compete for such an important project, such as the Moravia Corridor project, it does not mean that we are against the construction of the highway and against, so we disagree with the need to build the Moravski Corridor, but it is not "Bechtel" the only performer who knows how to make the highway, it is a contractor who is Mrs. Mihajlovic's will. She doesn't hide it in her public appearances, even here in the Assembly. Wherever she appears, she is able to say that, and very often she is in the company of the American ambassador. Comparing the examples of "Smeder" and the Moravia Corridor is also unserious. Serbia has not paid anything to "Gelezar" Smederevo, and here Serbia is supposed to finance eventually this money required by Bechtel, which is at least 300m euros more expensive than it would have been an offer from another company that might have come from Azerbaijan or China. As far as the South Stream is concerned, Turkish flow, so there's only one performer, they're not the same comparable things at all. If the Government, i.e. The executive government is forcing a company in Serbia to bypass the tender, bypassing the laws, we can't appeal to the rule of law, we can't appeal to legality, and of course, to prevent corruption, but to call nice things by their real name. Bechtel has a privilege over all construction firms. As for the SRS coalition with Mark Bastac in Old Town, first of all, we are not the police, nor the court, nor the prosecution, and we are not dealing with what the ruling majority is dealing with, where if you ask all MPs of the ruling majority know by heart all crime and all affairs of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Mladjan Dinkic and what I know everything I don't, and these people are all at large, there are no indictments, there's no process, there's nothing. If there is evidence that Marko Bastac participated in corruption and is involved in crime, please accuse him of seeing, arrest the man. I don't understand. What's the problem? Are we going to investigate the media? I can also assure you that both in the Old City of the SRS and in dozens of municipalities in Serbia, where we participate in local government with the SNS, we were never involved in any crime. We can see that now on the case where we are as partners in the Pozega municipality, where the SNS was in power, when an investigation was conducted and when there are reasonable doubts about some officials, i.e. Now former officials from the municipality have been involved in crime. Well, that's where only advances are arrested, because radicals don't deal with crime. If you want Mark Bastac to be accused or prosecuted or otherwise, I ask you to put all this in the charge and the defendants... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57911	The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57912	Thank you. I listened carefully to the previous speaker, but unfortunately everything he said I can't take as an argument. Every time colleagues from the ruling majority accuse colleagues from the opposition for crime and corruption, opposition colleagues when they are present deny it. Of course, it is also perfectly logical that you from the ruling majority deny that something is controversial in your ranks. I do not expect, indeed, that you acknowledge that the Bechtel business is not concluded properly and by all rules, but I expect the Anti-Corruption Agency to be an independent body, if it is indeed independent, to establish and declare the result of the investigation. I have to draw attention to the fact that it's very unusual for me that only here in the Assembly is one such substitute thesis that as soon as you're against the way things are done, it automatically turns out that you're against something, so if you're criticizing some of the health laws, you're immediately against the fact that children are being treated, if you're criticizing a deal with Bechtel, you're against the way to build, etc. Of course, that's not true. We are not against the construction of roads, we hope that there will be much more, much better and more quality, but we are against hiring companies that come from the United States just because certain ministers in the government work for the CIA or are otherwise connected to the United States and are taking a percentage to make these companies work, which is all agreed at meetings at the US Embassy, and that money goes out of the pockets of Serbian citizens. So, all that you never hire "Behtel" again and all that this firm will never be hired for any job again, you've done enough damage by paying the Moravski Corridor 300,000 more for the trip. And, you know very well, in the case of countries from the region that in Croatia many of the players of the Bechtel affair were eventually arrested, there was an investigation into the Kosovo situation and the investigation will probably be, one day with us. We're wondering who's gonna be responsible then? Who will then go to prison for damage to Serbia's citizens by 300,000 euros? Probably none of you sitting in these parliamentary benches, but you know very well that the responsibility lies with Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and it is mandatory that the citizens of Serbia know it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57913	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57914	Here, I ask you, show me that contract with Bechtel, show me that it has 800m euros in it, let's see who the contractors are, what are the deadlines for carrying out the work, and so on. I don't even know what you're talking about. First, an entire parliamentary group is in a war with a Serbian government minister, Zorana Mihajlovic, which is a bit of a strange situation in itself. Second, that we should defend ourselves against something that doesn't exist. What kind of contract with Bechtel? Who concluded that contract with "Bechtel"? Where does it say 800? Where does it say 300 million euros? Another colleague says -- "Paid 300,000 euros". What's paid? The land expropriation procedure for the construction of the route has not yet begun. I don't even know what you're talking about. I understand that you are an opposition, I understand that you do not like Zorana Mihajlović, I understand that you do not like SNS, but still, you have to take care of what you say, I beg you, here, for the sake of the public, show me that contract. We told you nicely today, here I am now waiting for my colleagues, upstairs from the office, to bring this law that we have adopted. The law says well – Serbia's government will elect a strategic partner to build the Moravski Corridor on a proposal from the commission, or working group that the government will form, which will take care of, above all, the interests of the Serbian state and Serbian citizens. You insist on something that's not there. There's no contract with Bechtel. Nothing's been paid yet. There is no contract not with Bechtel, but with any construction company from any part of the world. As far as you're concerned about the fact that there's no public procurement related to this job, there's no public procurement when it comes to Ironzar in Smederev. There was no public procurement when it came to a mine in Bora. There were no public procurements when jobs in Serbia were acquired by companies from Azerbaijan, China, on the construction of certain parts of highways. There were no public procurements when the "Russian State Railways" got a job to rebuild the railway infrastructure in Serbia not because any regulation was violated in Serbia, but because our legislation is that in such situations, when it comes to strategic infrastructure works, there are no public procurements, but that does not mean that the economic and financial interests of the Serbian state are not taken into account. Don't tell me any Chinese business is bad, regardless of whether it's the construction of traffic infrastructure, is it the "Smederevo Iron" or the pine mine? Was anything harmful done when we were closing a business, for example? With a construction company called Azvirt from Azerbaijan? Is any damage done to the state of Serbia? No, but you insist on only one company -- Bechtel, and then use it as some means of intimidation for Serbian citizens -- now some scary Americans will come to make a highway to Serbia. Whether the job in Serbia will get Bechtel, whether the job will be obtained by a Russian or Chinese company, the Serbian government will decide on it. So far, no decision has been made, because it is too early to make such a decision, when only a few days ago we passed the law and when you have yet to enter the land expropriation process along the path of that future highway, so that what you are doing now may be receptive to your ears or maybe you think that you can get some political point, but I am telling you, because of the citizens, no contract with Bechtel is signed. After all, I don't know what bothers you and the job gets the Bechtel? He says it's a Republican company. Well, I guess Donald Trump is a Republican. Well, did you wear T-shirts with his face on? Did you say that when Donald Trump wins, he will radically change America's policy towards Serbia? As soon as Donald Trump wins, Kosovo's recognition is lifted; as soon as Donald Trump wins, we enter Knin. Did you say that? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't lie! What now? So, what am I lying about? Did you wear Donald Trump's T-shirts and sing songs... Wait, Mr. Mircic. Okay, now you're angry, angry, but I'm telling you, you sang songs -- Serbia-Russia, Trump and Melanie. Did you sing like that and wear shirts with their face on? Now, all of a sudden, it's no good for the Bechtel firm, you're saying it's a Republican company, and Donald Trump is a Republican, and now we're waiting for Donald Trump to get into Knin with Donald Trump to enter Pristina? Now all of a sudden you're in trouble with Bechtel? But let's aside from that, to stop joking, I'm telling you that no Bechtel contract has been signed, that no one has been paid, and that there is no need for you to create a confusion among Serbian citizens. If you can't find another argument against Zorana Mihajlovic... I don't know if you're aware that what you're saying can only be affirmed by Zorana Mihajlovic? If you want to hurt her, then you have to deal with some facts. You need to find something that's real, what that woman did wrong, so that's an argument for you. If the only argument is that Zorana Mihajlovic signed a contract with Bechtel and did not sign, and she paid 800m euros and did not pay, it can only be for Zorana Mihajlovic and then instead of running a campaign where you can beat Zorana Mihajlovic, Zorana Mihajlovic will beat you. Here's my bill. Sing a little while, until I read this bill. As it was -- Serbia-Russia, Trump and Melania. Article 17 - In order to realise the project of the construction of the Moravia Corridor, the Government, on a proposal from the working group of the Government, is making the choice of a strategic partner. The criteria and the way in which the strategic partner is elected and the professional supervision of the implementation of the work is closely governed by the sublegal act adopted by the Government. In order to elect a strategic partner from Article 1, as well as to monitor the realisation of the construction of the Moravia Corridor, the Government educates the Working Group. In accordance with the choice of a strategic partner under Article 1(1), the Government as a financier and a person referred to in Article 5(1) of this Act as an investor will conclude with the strategic partner a project contract, i.e. providing services and performing works on the construction of the Moravia Corridor, etc., etc. Article 18 - Application of international standards in the field of professional control and supervision of design and implementation of works. So that's true. According to the Law on Public Interest and Special Procedures for the realisation of the Infrastructure Corridor Construction Project, the E-761, Pojate-Preljina Share. If you find "Bechtel" here, that the contract with Bechtel is signed, that the value of the works is 800m euros, here, I am giving you this law, find where it says it. I'm telling you it doesn't say and there's no need to use it. Find something from Zorana Mihajlovic's portfolio where a woman really might have made a mistake, so try to make a political profit on it. There's nothing you can profit from on this, because all you're saying is false.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57915	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57916	Mr. Seselj, when you say you're not the police or the D.A.'s office, I need to draw your attention that I didn't ask you to arrest Mark Bastac. I asked you nicely if you were to, as you say, be responsible for the people's money or not? Do you share the same values that you've been saying here for years that you represent them or you've changed something and now you've changed attitudes? It also has to do with these things that Mr. Martinovic was talking about. Did you decide that your principled position is that when the public interest of leks specialises, you are against what it refers to? If it is, say it. Then you no longer support "Belgrade on Water". We know Bastac doesn't support him, neither he, nor his boss, Gilas, nor the camels around them. In addition to breaking construction sites in downtown Belgrade, they are threatening to do the same on the construction sites of Berograda on the water, that they will tear up the Sava Square as soon as it starts to work, to raise a monument to Stefan Nemanja. Is that what you intend to do? It would be a great surprise to me if the answer was yes. But if you say that everything is indisputable, can you explain to us, since Bastac and Đilas can't, what is the minus in SC "Milan Gale Muskatirović", is he 100 million, 150 million or 200 million and that you, since they can't possibly, why is that okay, why is it normal, why is it responsible for dealing with other people's money, with citizens' money? If you say it's indisputable, explain it to us, please, why? Do you have proof of the service performed by the gerento housewife? The Bastache is gone, Gilas is gone, and they don't have any eye. After all, if you can explain these things, even if you can't, why would you support the destruction of construction sites in downtown Belgrade, why would you support the harassment of citizens of this city, why would you support abuse, physical abuse, besides verbal, honest workers? As far as I know, you've never represented these things, and if you support Bastac, you support such a misdemeanor, by supporting his local government and making him available by cash, because without that availability, he wouldn't be able to do these things, he wouldn't have those mercenaries who make him company while he's breaking these fences, stealing signs and working people's faces with Jeremic's assistant and questioning them – what are you doing, who gave the order, by what law, by what decision etc? So, the moment you say - we no longer support Bastac, the moment it looks like it's closing the tap, the tap from which it takes the people's money to finance that kind of activity. So, the question that you justify these great costs and justify these seem to be your new values. I think it's simple. You don't have to arrest anyone, but you could answer this, first of all, for the people who are looking at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57917	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57918	Mr. Arsic, because of the people who are watching this, which is the answer to Mr. Martinovic's discussion, did we wear T-shirts with Trump's character and invite Serbs living in America to vote for Trump, first of all, to be broken by Vladimir Putin's express support and, of course, we did it because we were stupid. We weren't as smart as your political party and your president to support Hillary Clinton, but mistakes teach, what to do, maybe next time we'll take another stance, but here, we were stupid when we supported Trump. We didn't give anyone money in the American election campaign, i.e. Presidential elections in America, and the president of Serbia, as far as I'm concerned, has paid a substantial sum of money to the Clinton Foundation, where the lobby services are actually paid, their lobby companies and appearing together with them at conferences dedicated to global political problems. At least we're different here, as far as support is concerned in the American elections. Of course, it's all because of our stupidity, and we were supposed to give money to the Clinton Foundation, and maybe next time we'll be smarter, but I just wish everything was true what you said, Mr. Martinovic, and that you did it again. that you said a week ago when Zorana Mihajlovic was a bu, because she appeared in public, on television with a national frequency along with the American ambassador, the presidents of Behtel firm, when it was signed, it seems to me that it was a protocol on co-operation and building a highway. We are neither against "Biograda na Voda" nor against the Moravia Corridor. We are against the choice of partners for such projects which is non-transparent, and Lex specialis is a non-transparent way. What's wrong with the tender, what's wrong with the competition where the terms are prescribed and then the one who has the best price wins the tender? What's the problem with that? It can't be compared to "The Iron" in Smederev and RTB Bor because it's foreign capital. There's someone here with money from abroad, and we should probably have some experience in these 19 years, to learn lessons, to see how companies that come from the east, that is. from China, Azerbaijan, the Russian Federation, etc. do they act when they invest in Serbia? Do they remain a wasteland behind them and return "The Iron" to Smederevo for one dollar, as the Americans did, or give our strategic partners and most money to Serbia's budget, such as NIS today or the Chinese in Bora or the "The Irons"? If all of this is incorrect what we're talking about, and we'd like it to be, and "Bechtel" doesn't come to that place, then why protocol, then why public appearance? Let's discuss the tender, see which firm is the most favourable. Maybe she's from China, maybe Azerbaijan. We will not do these jobs and there will be no Serbian subcontractors, but Turkish firms, because it is their model of work in Southeast Europe. As for the signs in the Republic Square, you know, every political party or any organization, movement or whatever, it chooses its own methods of performing in public, what it will do. Of course, it should all be allowed if it's in accordance with the law. If there is a basis for criminal or criminal responsibility, then what are we talking about, that's not to be debated. I guess that's the DA's office's turn. I am not even the director of the Sports Institute Milan Gale Muskatirović, I am not even the head of the administration, I am not the vice president of the municipality, I am not even a member of the council of Stari Grad, but here you are. If there's any evidence, why doesn't an auditor come to that municipality or an inspection or the police? (Vladimir Orlic: He was an auditor. () What did the auditor say to them? What's the problem? Then why aren't the police responding? We don't have the apparatus of force. The police department's been holding SNS for five years, as far as I can see. What's the problem? There may be some currents that are against this action, or that campaign is better served in the media on the front pages. I think so. We never support any crime. We've never done that, and if you're sure of your claims, then we need to get things cleaned up, not to discuss it every day in the Assembly and in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57919	The word is Alexandra Belačić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57920	Thank you, Chairman. I have to admit, I was wrong to say that building the Moravian Corridor would cost 800m euros. Construction is actually going to cost a lot more, and now I'm going to explain how. Namely, the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a law establishing public interest in special procedures for its realisation, where the current state of play is described in the analysis of this bill, among other things, that the length of the Moravia Corridor is planned for 110km and that credit borrowing will be made for the implementation of the project by foreign investment corporations and funds of 800m euros. Since these are not grants, it is a loan that our country will take from abroad, when we return that loan, we should certainly charge the amount of interest that will be returned, so that the total value of the Moravia Corridor will certainly exceed 800m euros. Furthermore, officials signed the Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation in the construction of the Moravia Corridor with Bechtel. You did not sign the memorandum with any Chinese firm, with no Russian firm, with any Azerbaijani firm, but exclusively with the US-based Bechtel, which clearly indicates that the plan for this company to work on the construction of the Moravia Corridor. After all, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has been in this hall many times when we talked about "Bechtel", when we criticised the decision that "Bechtel" is engaged to build the Moravski Corridor at overpaid prices and never at any time denied that this company would be the contractor of the works. We don't attack her, as you say, there's no personal war there, but we're only telling the truth to the citizens, often at our own expense. For example, I have a relative who lives in the United States, I should go visit them, we haven't seen each other for many years, and I am aware that every time I mention Scott and when I mention Zorana Mihajlovic, I get the chance to get an American visa and how they fall. However, I am still speaking and will continue to say that there is an obvious case of corruption and that there is no personal interest in us, except to open our eyes to the citizens sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You may not understand why we, as you say, are attacking Zorana Mihajlovic, but soon you will understand and you will be grateful. When the Memorandum of Understanding and Co-operation with Bechtel was signed, US Ambassador Scott attended, who said on that occasion that Kosovo is a de facto independent state. Next to him was Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who kept his speech quiet. She has not responded once and has not said that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, the southern Serbian province and that we do not recognise and will never recognise Kosovo's independence. It's the only thing in my first speech that you haven't replicated and you haven't had a comment on, you've taken on the details of whether it's protocol, contract, memorandum, agreement, etc. We were once wearing shirts with Donald Trump, we weren't singing any songs, it was a performance, the day Joseph Biden came to Belgrade and we wanted to show that for us, Donald Trump was less evil than the Clinton family, who was directly responsible for the bombing of Serbia. Since we are not Americans, we have nothing to do with either the Republican or any other administration, we certainly couldn't promise that anything would change radically better, when Donald Trump came to power, you, from the ruling regime, were, above all, Mr Martinovic, and others, for more than a decade wearing T-shirts with the character of Vojislav Seselj and you were the ones who said that something radical would change for the better when the SRS came to power, while you were now sitting in whose ranks you were characterising as a mob and traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57921	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57922	Well, I wanted the SRS to come to power, but you are, with you a man cannot come to power. That is your problem and you can use that phrase – we when we come to power, when we come to power. Who? You? You're going to beat Alexander Wolfie? Hardly. But until you beat Alexander Wolfie, let me just tell you how things are. First, Alexander Vukic never supported Bill Clinton in the presidential election campaign, but the truth is completely different. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic, as Prime Minister on 20 September 2016, participated in a panel called "Resurrection and Divided Society". The panel was also attended by the then head of the municipality, that is, the head of the municipality of Srebrenica Djamil Durakovic, and in that show, through the video link, Avdija Ibrahimovic, who survived the Srebrenica massacre. Vukic told her that genocide took place in Srebrenica, said the following - I am a proud Serb. So that's what he said in America, in front of Clinton, in front of Jamil Durakovic and in front of this lady who claimed that genocide happened in Srebrenica -- I am a proud Serb and that I went to Srebrenica, to pay tribute to a huge crime that took place in 1995, but I also want to point out that there were a lot of crimes on the other, Muslim, or Bosniak side. That's how one responsible Prime Minister behaves. So he went to the United States, not to support Bill Clinton, but to defend Serbia's position and to defend the position, ultimately the Republic of Serbia, or Republika Srpska, and to save in some way the charges of genocide being committed in Srebrenica. He wasn't giving any money to Bill Clinton. Clinton's got enough money without us. So he didn't give any money to Bill Clinton, nor did he support Hillary Clinton as a candidate for the President of the United States, but he took part in a panel as Prime Minister, thus showing enormous state responsibility and political courage to be in one place, where it's not pleasant to be. It's not pleasant when you're alone against everyone. So Clinton says there was genocide in Srebrenica, so Cemil Durakovic says there was genocide, so that lady who got involved through the video link says there was genocide. So Bakir Izetbegovic joined me to remind you, saying that genocide and Vukic only happened as Serbian Prime Minister, as the only Serb there said - I went to Srebrenica to pay tribute to the victims, there was a crime there, but also to remind you that the crime took place before the crime took place in Srebrenica, crimes against Serbs in Podrinj during 1992 and 1993. That's what he said in the U.S., on that panel that was held on 20 September 2016, and that's true. And he showed great understanding for people living in Srebrenica whether they are Serbs or Muslims, because he said -- the Serbian government has promised that Srebrenica will donate fivem euros. We have already given two million euros, we have three million more to make new kindergartens, new schools, new homes of health, new roads, because we Serbs and Bosniaks need to live together and because we need to build peace in the area, that is, the Western Balkans region. That's how one responsible and serious Prime Minister behaves. What was he supposed to do, go to America and say, "I'm the head of a government that's going to win the future war of the United States, I want war with America, I want war with the NATO Pact"? Great, you can say that, but it's not feasible and it's not real. This is one real national policy. And you can't make a distinction between fantasy and real national policy. We can now fantasize about how strong we are, how we can beat everything, how stronger we are from America and NATO to the NATO Pact, how only America has not fallen apart, how soon the EU has not fallen apart, how the NATO Pact has not fallen apart, but things, unfortunately, or fortunately, stand differently. I'm just telling you how it was and that's what the citizens of Serbia need to know. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic neither supported Clinton nor Bill nor Hilary nor gave them money, but he defended both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and that, in the presence of Bill Clinton, Camil Durakovic, the two women from Srebrenica who had been involved through the video link and Bakir Izetbegovic, who also took part through a video link and in the middle of America said - yes, there was a crime in Srebrenica. I don't think it was genocide, it was a crime of great proportions, but prior to that crime in Srebrenica, crimes against Serbs took place in Podrinj during 1992 and 1993. It's a huge political courage to say here in Serbia, let alone in America. So, it's the truth about Alexander Vukic's performance on that panel from 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57923	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57924	First of all, Aleksandar Vucic took part in September 2016 on a panel organised by the Bill Clinton Institute, including Ćamil Duraković, and Bakir Izetbegovic and some other pals, but when he returned to Serbia, he said, on the question of journalists, Gorislav Papic RTS, on the show "Eye", why did you just participate in a forum organised by Clinton Foundation, which is interpreted as your support for Hillary Clinton? He said, because I'm smart, unlike some other people who go down the street and yell -- wow, you. That's clear now. I agree, and it's okay, every crime should be condemned and the Serb people should defend against that white genocide that they're trying to impose on us. On this side, you will always have our support, as Ana Brnabić said in her interview with "Decree Great", and she was very brave when she talked about what happened in Srebrenica and that's okay and it's for respect. That's how every Serbian official should perform. But don't kid yourself, you know, we don't fantasize. We are just saying what is obvious, and it is obvious that not only will this EU fall apart, but that at the end of this time conditions, what we will have to admit is that there has been genocide in Srebrenica, we will have to give up KIM completely, so it will mean nothing to us to these countries that have withdrawn the recognitions and these all of our successes that we have made both respect and international reputation in the world, etc., if we have to recognise Kosovo's independence to join the EU, and everything else. Let me remind you, the EU of 2019 is not the EU of Mastricht. This is the EU leaving for the first time in a Member State, where leading people and countries, which are EU members and European administrations, are not the time for EU enlargement, it is time for reform, we do not know what we are going to do with these 27 members, Macron said the other day. Emmanuel Makron, the French president, currently the most influential man in the EU, says: we do not know what to do with these 27 countries, not any enlargement. What doesn't need to be made clear to us now? As you know, you spoke today in the previous part, i.e. Before the break, what is the situation regarding the economy in the so-called economy? real-socialist soils. I'll remind you that all the former real-socialist countries i.e. countries where communism ruled in one way or another had to become members of the NATO Pact first, and then only to be members of the EU. There is no reason for this to not be the case with Serbia. So first we will have to enter the NATO Pact, as is Croatia and Romania, and Bulgaria, and Hungary, and Poland and all other countries that have become EU members. I guess that's what you should say. It's not just the one who's blind or the one who's mean and wants to hide it. That's a fact. From experience, the empirical fact. As for the local coalitions, I'm ready to make a deal between the SNS and the SRS. You want to leave Sulejman Ugljanin first and no longer support him in Tutin, Prijepolje and Priboj and some other municipalities, and then I'll... It is a man who speaks for Stefan Nemanja that it is a war criminal and as such worse than Ratko Mladic. It says openly that Serbia is a fascist state, saying Sandzak should be a republic. So it violates the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, and you are with it in the coalition. If we put on the cantar that Sulejman Ugljanin openly destroys the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and that Marko Bastic pulls signs in the Republic Square, what is more important then? I am prepared to leave Mark Bastic's radicals if SNS leaves Sulejman Ugljanin and especially through satellite parties supported by Sulejman Ugljanin at the Bosniak National Council. I think it's quite correct on our part, as an opposition party, to do so now. So, all that we've seen now and we've had the opportunity to hear about the conditions and what's trying to happen to Serbia and what's called what we do and what we stand for, fantasies. No, we think that Europe is not the EU, that there is a lot more Europe than this Brussels bureaucracy, and we only call on the government in Serbia to think soberly and in this regard, and to take moves in view of the experiences of the Member States with which we can compare, these are primarily countries in the environment. As far as the NATO Pact is concerned, we must become members of the NATO Pact in order to join the EU, and examples of Austria, Sweden and Finland are not examples of comparison with Serbia, since these are countries where they have never been ruled by communism and have not had the need to demonstrate their loyalty to the EU, i.e. to the political west in this way, as Serbia will have to do before Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57925	Right on the line, MP Alexander Belacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57926	Thank you. I would just like to respond to a statement from the ruling party's previous speaker, who says he has advocated that radicals come to power, but that it is impossible with us. I would remind the previous speaker that perhaps as impossible with us, it was also impossible with him, because at a time when he was vice-president of the SRS and one of the most prominent speakers in the National Assembly, the SRS failed to cross the censorship, and that parliamentary status was not restored until after Vojislav Seselj's return from The Hague tribunal. Indeed, Mr. Martinovic, you, while you were in the ranks of the SRS, were a great speaker, I'm not saying that now you're not, you were certainly much better, because you spoke out of persuasion, not out of use. I was the first to really enjoy listening to you, but I don't think this previous remark is right, because you know perfectly well whether a party will be in power or not, it depends on a lot of factors. These are some cycles in policies that change, at least depending on the individual, whether you, or me. I'll remind you that Alexander Vukic has lost his election many times. The biggest memory is that defeat in 2004 from Dragan Gilas in the city's elections. The logic that you used turns out that Dragan Gilas was better than Alexander Vukic at the time. Whether he was better or not, I don't think he was. Just as I think that the SNS is no better than the SRS, the simple situation is that you now have the support of the people, it will change at some point. The fact that you from these ranks have crossed those lines and now you say that the people will, and with us, they will not, with all due respect, remind me of that joke when an elephant and a mouse cross the bridge together, and the mouse will not stand on his back and say, “But let us fight.” So, your individual contribution or my individual contribution is extremely funny to talk about, and none of us are going to beat Alexander Vukic, or anything, we're putting our views here, the citizens are going to decide who they're going to vote for and who they won't vote for. If we have to point out, not every fight is political, there are more important battles than political, it is a struggle of life, and in this life struggle every SRS MP has won, he defeated Alexander Vukic and all of you sitting there, with morality, endurance and ideological consistency. Indeed, this is nothing against Alexander Vukic, nor against any of us, our criticisms that we present are always constructive, we will commend all that is good, we will criticise all that is not good. In particular, we believe that this Bechtel contract is not good. We don't think it was a good thing that Hillary Clinton was supported. We believe that Alexander Vukic, who for ten years and much more, but ten years from the bombing to the founding of the SNS, called the Clinton War Crimes family, should not have allowed himself to have one Bill Clinton pat him on the shoulder. We point out all of this just so it doesn't happen, so you realize that the only way to turn to the Russian Federation is to turn to European integration, to allow a little more co-operation with Russian companies, with Azerbaijani firms, not because we want anyone here to win. It's winning the election, not in this room, only constructive debates are being held here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57927	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57928	Here, now the citizens of Serbia have heard, I am the most responsible that the SRS did not cross the censorship in 2012. I really am, and you know it very well, and I'm the main culprit for that, and I'm sorry about that. You're honoring me that I've moved to SNS. Well, you, Mrs. Belacic, if I'm not mistaken, have been the chairman of the local board of "Old Airport" on bloc 37 in New Belgrade of the Serbian Progressive Party for more than a year. You were in SNS. You were the chairman of the local committee. (Alexandra Belačić: No. You were the chairman of the SNS Local Committee. But it doesn't matter now, well, you were, you weren't, I'm telling you that you were. (Alexandra Belacic: I tell you I wasn't. I'm telling you that you were, but it doesn't matter now. There are some far more important topics than whether or not you were a member of the SNS. Mr. Seselj says - we will have to enter the NATO Pact, we will have to recognise Kosovo and Metohija. We will not enter the NATO Pact, nor will we recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence and that has been repeated by the President of the Republic, the citizens of Serbia, not you, the citizens of Serbia. Serbia's position is when it comes to military blocks, military neutrality, we don't want to enter the NATO Pact, we want to join the European Union, but we never said, even though you repeat it to infinity, that the European Union has no alternative. When did any of the SNS officials say that there is no alternative to the European Union and that there is no life for Serbia without the European Union? So we have implemented fiscal consolidation without membership in the European Union. We have revived the Serbian economy without membership in the European Union, we have the growth of gross social product, although we are not members of the European Union, not that we have growth, we have much greater growth than countries that are members of the European Union. So Serbia can survive and survive, and it will be much stronger, whether or not a member of the European Union. Our strategic commitment is to be members of the European Union because we think it is good for the citizens of Serbia. Whether Serbia will be or will not be a member of the European Union, it does not depend solely on Serbia, it depends on the European Union, but we have never found that the European Union has no alternative and that the death sentence of Serbia is signed if it does not enter the European Union. Serbia will live even if it is not in the European Union. And we have shown that this can be done, since 2014, we have shown that we can strengthen Serbia, although we are not formally members of the European Union. As for this 2016 panel, we proved that we didn't support Hillary Clinton, that we didn't give any money to Bill Clinton or Hillary Clinton. But, you know, when you're the Prime Minister of a small state like Serbia, and in doing so being a serious and responsible politician, then you can't choose whether or not you're going to be in a place where you defend Serbia's position. You have to be, as pleasant or unpleasant as it is for you. If you're invited from America to defend Serbia, you're going to America. If you're invited from Russia to defend Serbia, you're going to Russia. If you're called from China, you're going to China. If you're invited from Croatia, you're going to Croatia. But you can't choose as the president of the Serbian government – I won't go to America, I won't go to Croatia, I'm only going where my friends are open and honest. You can't win a Battle in Kosovo, so metaphorically, if you don't go to Kosovo. So how do you defend Serbia's interests if you don't go where they call you to defend it? To choose where you're going or where you won't go, I think you can afford the President of America right now, the President of the Russian Federation, the President of China, may be able to, perhaps, even though she doesn't, I don't think she does, Angela Merkel, but it definitely can't do any serious and responsible Prime Minister or President of the Republic of Serbia. Everywhere there is a minimal chance of promoting Serbian national and state interests, you must appear. So do you think it was pleasant for Vukic to sit with Bill Clinton, Camila Durakovic, and to include a lady from Srebrenica who said there was a genocide there? So do you think it was pleasant for Alexander Vukic to go to Srebrenica in 2015 and have an assassination attempt there, a bunch of them nearly lynching him? Of course he wasn't comfortable. But when you are a serious politician, responsible for your people, according to your country, you have no choice. You have to go there, either hard or not hard. The wolf showed, and that's why the people support him, so the people support him for going where he knows it's hard ahead, which doesn't run away from the tough places, which doesn't run away from the heavy topics, which doesn't run away from the heavy talkers, but gets in touch with them. But he didn't bend his head when he was with Clinton and Cemil Durakovic in 2016, as he didn't bend his head, if you watched those videos carefully, or in 2015 in Srebrenica. He was breaking through a mass of high heads. He didn't want to get his head down and show that he was afraid of anything. Well, he was a ready man, after all, and to die, to be fair, because the hair was missing to lose his head in Srebrenica. Thanks to a bit of luck, a little bit of attention from his security, a little courage from Republika Srpska police officers, he managed to get back from Srebrenica alive. But he didn't get his head down. As he did not bow his head in front of Clinton, as he did not bow his head before Angel Merkel and as he did not bow his head before any world politician or statesman, because we are not leading neither pro-American nor German, nor Russian, but rather leading an open and unquestionably Serbian policy. We don't have the ambition to change relationships on a global political scene like us, small, numerically small, territorially small. Whenever we Serbs felt that the fate of the world depended on us, we paid for it with our heads. I also said that in the debate on the Kosovo and Metohija Report, so these from Enough said to promote Hitler and Germany. On March 27, 1941, we thought that the fate of World War II was up to us, we launched a military coup, or coup, to overthrow the government of Cvetkovic-Macek. What have we experienced? That the state had fallen apart in 17 days, that the Ustashas had come to power in Zagreb, that we had been scattered by the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and that there had been a terrible crime against the Serbs, above all in NDH, in Vojvodina, in central Serbia, how much the Kingdom, Sabac, Kragujevac, had been killed in Kosovo and Metohija, all because of this crazy Serbian idea that the fate of the world depended on us. And now that's not enough experience for us, but you say in 2019 -- well, the European Union is going to fall apart, so the NATO Pact is going to fall apart. Well, it might fall apart, but not because of us. Do not cultivate these illusions that we Serbs, who do not have a brother in Serbia or a full seven million, that we are going to tear down the European Union, that we are going to bring down a NATO pact, difficult, and we are not even supposed to cultivate such illusions. We should walk, as Aleksandar Vukic said, along that thin wire and make sure that between one side of the mountain and the other we do not fall into the gap, from the left, from the right, and to preserve Serbia, to preserve the Serbian people, to preserve the Republic of Serbia, and above all to preserve the Serb people at KIM. Let America, let Russia go, it's big countries, it's modern empires, they have their own interests, they have enough power to calculate each other. They have so many atomic weapons that in dozens of times they can destroy each other and not each other, but the whole world. We, led by Aleksandra Vukic, have only one task to preserve Serbia, not like those who, mother to Serbia, were reducing our country from year to year. Our task is, and this is the purpose and policy of the SNS, to leave Serbia to our children and our grandchildren the same as it is today, not to be smaller. But to make it stronger and economical to be stronger and cultural to be stronger and military to be stronger and to have those who were open enemies in us by yesterday at least to create some solid partners, and we are on track to do so and, of course, to strengthen that friendship with those who are already friends with us even more. There's no need for you to lecture us now on how we need to integrate with the Russian Federation, although I don't know what that Syntagma of integration with the Russian Federation means. We have reached, Mrs. Belacic, such a degree of co-operation with the Russian Federation on a political, economic and military-technical plan, that there is only one more thing to do, which is to abolish Serbia's independence and declare ourselves a federal unit of the Russian Federation. Do you know who did this? It was done by Montenegrin communists in February 1942 when Partizanski Assembly near the Ostrog monastery decided that since 8 February 1942, Montenegro is an integral part of the Soviet Union. Well, do you think we should do that? We don't want to be part of Russia, part of America, part of Germany, part of China, we want to be Serbia, but we want to work with everyone. If anyone opened the market, if anyone made it possible for Russian companies and Azerbaijani companies and Chinese companies and Turkish companies to work in Serbia, so did Aleksandar Vukic. That's what Alexander Wolfe did no one before him. The market was closed. It is he who has made it possible for both Russian and Chinese and Azerbaijani and all other investments in Serbia. You keep insisting on those investments that came from the West, and they came and it's good that they came, because thanks to these investors we have hundreds of thousands of new jobs. We have more than 200 new factories in Serbia in recent years, but you are not telling the fact that Aleksandar Vukic has brought into Serbia both Russian and Chinese and Azerbaijani investors and contractors, and that is what the people of Serbia understand well. If you want Serbia to survive, not disappear, you have to live in the real world. The real world is unfair. In the real world, injustices happen, in the real world, international law applies to strong and strong, sometimes to young people, sometimes they don't, but we live in this real world, we can't change it. We can't invent another time, another world, another Europe. We must lead policy in this and this kind of Europe, both in this and this world, and in this schedule of international forces. It's the only real national policy. Everything else is pure adventure that can lead us into the abyss as it took us in 1941. We boasted for 50 years that we delayed Germany's attack on the Soviet Union because we performed a coup on March 27th. European historians claim something else. Hitler postponed the attack on the Soviet Union, not because of Borisvoj Mirkovic and Dusan Simovic, he conquered Yugoslavia by 17 days, but because he had a problem with transferring troops from France to the eastern battlefield. And why did we Serbs lose so many heads? For nothing. When you take statistics from World War II, it clearly shows you who actually won World War II and who lost. We Serbs won no doubt, but our victory was expensive, each seven Serbs lost their heads in World War II, and every 49 Englishmen lost their heads in World War II. Now the Englishman has 60 and a few million, and we're seven million. Alexandra Vukic wants us to be 15 million, not to be three million in four years. It's SNS policy. Not dead Serbs so we can sing about dead Serbs and their heroism, we need living spray heads in both Serbia and Republika Srpska, Croatia and Montenegro. How can we keep those living Serbian heads alive? By running a wise and responsible national policy. It's easy to hit the talambas, it's easy to boast about heroism in Belgrade, but it's about to go to New York, so there's been a major crime in Srebrenica, but there's been a major crime against Serbs before. It is necessary to go to Zagreb, and say in the centre of Zagreb, Serbs in Croatia have maximum human rights at risk. He should go to Krnjak, he should go to certain places in Kordun, Bani and so on, as Alexandera Vukic did. It is necessary for Serbs in Kordun to provide tractors, to build kindergartens, to build health homes, as well as for Serbs in Montenegro, as is necessary for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Who does that? That's what the Serbian government does, and that's what the President of the Republic does. That's how we imagine responsible national policy. If you ask at the heart of every Serb, would you like Knin in Serbia? Well, 99% would tell you - I'd love to. Is that real right now? It's not real, but what's real? It is realistic to preserve and strengthen this Serbia, to preserve the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, not to experience "Blash" and "Storm", to economically strengthen it, to securely strengthen it. To preserve the Serbian people in Montenegro, to preserve the Republic of Serbia, and thanks to the diplomatic policy of Alexander Vukic and his initiative and, of course, thanks to the support of our friends from Russia and China, it has been prevented from putting a genocide mark on the whole Serbian people in the Security Council. It is realistic to strengthen the position of the Serb people in Croatia. This is real, everything else is not real but is the most real, life-threatening policy of having a living people, strong people, strong people, demographic strong people in both Croatia and BiH, and Montenegro, and of course here in Serbia. Of course, that we will continue to appear wherever we find it difficult, wherever they call us, I mean the President of the Republic, I mean the Ministers, I mean the Prime Minister, and I mean us MPs. Wherever it is difficult, we will go to defend Serbia's position. After all, your MPs do. I am grateful to my colleague, Alexander Seselj, for being a member of this delegation in the Council of Europe, and he did not say anything ugly about his country, and he did not say anything ugly, after all, about Alexander Vukic's policy in the Council of Europe. This is how national policy is run responsibly. Somewhere you're comfortable, somewhere you're not comfortable. But if you are responsible, go where it is pleasant and uncomfortable, if you know you can defend Serbia's position. It's Alexander Vukic's policy, it's the politics of the Serbian Progressive Party, and that's why the people trust us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57929	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57930	On the subject of this victory of Alexander Vukic, it is said, by morality, perseverance and consistency. I was just asking if certain values are supported, of course, and those millions of damages on different grounds at the Old Town level, but also regarding things that I guess nobody should prove to you, because you saw with your eyes what the destruction of those construction sites looked like. Or are we just gonna pretend you didn't see it? Moral, consistency and endurance can probably be called political co-operation with Mark Bastic. It's the only way I can understand what we've talked about, which means the head of Gilas' party, this newly created party, for the City of Belgrade, the values he shares are the values shared by his party colleagues by Gilas himself, and the other members of the presidency. Here, you want to talk about a relationship with the Srebrenica issue. What is the position on Srebrenica Marinika Tepic? She's a member of the presidency, right? One of the party's vice presidents. What do you have to do with their values and their views on this matter? Do you know what Marinika Tepic's attitude is about Srebrenica? Read for yourself how many times she said, she claims it's genocide. I'm not sure anyone there agrees on what she said about the rehabilitation of Nikola Kalabic or what she said about Serbia's participation in different wars in the 1990s? All the worst that you could condemn, right, all of a sudden your values are uncontested to you, only if the police order something or if the D.A.'s office determines something, you will react. Consistency is also reflected in this, when you attack someone from the SNS, because in the SNS itself, 7.5.2014, you attend the meeting of the municipal board of the Novi Belgrade SNS, starting at 6 p.m. on the agenda: 1) Organizational and Technical Issues, under 2) Variously and under regular number 11. you register that you were among those present at the meeting. Is that right? If in the first 10 or 11 positions of the SNS Municipal Committee's minutes, there are municipal officials, and as far as I know, they are, then it seems completely realistic to me that it is someone who may, for example, be the chairman of our party's local committee. What does this have to do with morality, endurance, and consistency? You want us to prove them to this day? There's no problem. Show morality, endurance and consistency by saying, I do not agree with Marinika Tepic, I do not agree with that of Djilas Todoric, who is to remind you that, too, he said – a genocide has been committed in Srebrenica and it has been found guilty of SRJ, or Serbia. That's what the man said, even with Bastache himself. How? I've already offered. Very simple and very easy, you can do it today, by interrupting any political co-operation with them. Is that so hard?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57931	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Krsto Janjušević appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57932	The 107th article is about the SNS and SDA coalition, which my SRS colleague mentioned earlier, and I must say that I am proud of being part of a political option where we have never received a recommendation to break up with some of the coalitions at a local level, but Alexander Vukic insists at all meetings that we make coalitions at a place with people who want the best of the municipality, who have the best ideas and not to mix these things with high policy. The easiest way to fight with colleagues, friends, neighbors we've known for many years is because the members of the SDA, the easiest and nothing easier than that, should create friendships and bridges and that Ugljanin, whose actions and statements I do not approve of at all, was in the previous presidential elections in Tutina and Sjenica, for example, called for the support of candidate Sasa Jankovic. He then called for other candidates of these other options to be supported, and here's how they went. To note, the presidents of the municipalities, both Tutin and Sjenica, were from the SDA, in Tutin Aleksandar Vukic, where 1% of Serbs win 77.9% of the votes, while in Sjenica about 20% of Serbs, Aleksandar Vukic wins 79.1%. So we will continue to build friendly relations, in this space there are friendships between Serbs and Bosniaks longer than one political party lasts and we will not allow it to endanger any politics. Suleiman Ugljanin will eventually remain alone in his statements, and we will continue together in a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57933	Since we've been running replicas for over an hour now, I've been setting a break in accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure and we'll continue in five minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57935	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for giving me your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sikimic, as you know this year we have already had the opportunity to talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency when we discussed the new Anti-Corruption Act. Today we are talking about a work report for 2018 with the report on the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. I also spoke in principle of powers and the functioning of the Agency and assessed the positive solutions that went to extend your competences. On the other hand, I have also pointed to the incomplete norm of certain issues that have been incomplete to officials and therefore to citizens. I hope that the adoption of this new law has helped in terms of the easier functioning of the Agency, or in terms of analysis of the concrete proposals that you could get from the Ministry of Justice, or some of the proposals that you had the opportunity to give to the Ministry of Justice, because I certainly think that this co-operation is very important in order to ultimately reduce corruption in Serbia. In particular, I would draw attention to one part of your report, specifically your Prevention Sector, because discovering the source of the risk of corruption is actually the first step in the fight against corruption. Perhaps the most important step, because when corruption already occurs, then there are consequences for all spheres of society. The report shows that the Agency has developed different models, but I will concentrate on the model of a local anti-corruption plan for local self-government units, based on an analysis of the forms of corruption. In this way, on the one hand, the recommendation adopted in Chapter 23 has been fulfilled, but what may be more important is that municipalities and cities now have a model that can be handled, that is, municipalities and cities have the opportunity to set in accordance with local community needs measures to reduce corruption rates in a specific unit of local self-government. I think it is very important that we fight the forms of corruption at the level at which these forms of corruption have arisen, and in this sense we should expect a greater engagement of local self-government units for those cases that have occurred at the bar. I would also like to take the opportunity today to support Minister of the Ministry of Interior Nebojsa Stefanovic, as he suffers media chicanisation and daily attacks of a personal nature, because he announced something that is not personal in nature, which is an investigation into the affairs of Dragan Gilas, which is so often spoken of in public. In all the media, you can read the statements by Dragan Gilas himself, saying first that he had entered politics, that he had earned 74,000 euros in the Czech Republic, and later that he had recognised a 25m-euro figure, or more than 1,600 squares of living space. So this example is about the man who was a functioner, and the public wants to know whether or not there was an abuse of position and function he performed. Finally, the doubts that exist need to be checked out and introduced to the public with the outcomes of the different procedures that will take place. In that regard, I believe that the Agency should pay particular attention to this, to dealing with cases like this, in addition to issues relating to current officials. Other examples I was planning to discuss today were already spoken by counterpart Aleksandra Tomic at the beginning, and colleague Milena Turk, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, so at this point I will not repeat myself, I just want to ask you to take these allegations seriously. Of course in voting day I will support this report. I think it's very important that we had a chance to discuss the report today. Cooperation between the Anti-Corruption Agency and the National Assembly, between the Government and all state bodies and institutions, is very important and must exist, in order to achieve our common goal, and that is, above all, prevention, but also other measures to combat corruption. Fighting corruption means a healthier environment, meaning a better economy, and ultimately it reflects on citizens' living standards. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57936	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57937	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I had to answer for the reason that this dialogue and these replicas had just been cut off, right when I wanted to respond to my colleagues from the SNS, who brought out the information here that I was a member of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57938	Thank you, colleagues. You want to replicate, and through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we won't be able to do it now. (Alexandra Belačić: Article 97 has been injured. The dignity of the National Assembly. I haven't broken Article 97 in any way. (Alexandra Belačić: Yes. ) The word has a People's MP, Muamer Bacevac. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57939	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear, Mr. Sikimic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, indeed, in Serbia, better and better results are being recorded every day when it comes to fighting corruption. In the past year, more than 500 people have been threatened and prosecuted for crimes of corruption and crime. Neither were high-ranking state officials, former ministers' assistants, municipality presidents, directors of public enterprises spared in the fight. In Serbia, no one else will be protected by the party's booklet or the material position that someone is taking in society. And by this, we as SNS are really different from the predecessors who ruled this Serbia and Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic and Obradovic. We have shown in action, indeed, and that is what this Anti-Corruption Agency Report is for, how it really is insecure to fight corruption in our society. Cases in Požega, Leskovac, Nis and Belgrade have been contributing since this year, as well as old cases from the time the DS mourned and burned over Serbia, I mean a court ruling recently on the punishment of Assistant Minister Oliver Dulic for abuse of his official position when he headed the environment ministry. In your recommendations on page 15 of the Anti-Corruption Agency, there are things that we as the National Assembly have already done. We have passed the Corruption Prevention Act, indeed, and as members of the National Assembly of Serbia's Administrative Board, we have worked to strengthen the capacity of your agency, every year we have recommendations that come from your side when it comes to increasing the number of employees, strengthening capacity and towards equipment, staffing, seeing that you have indeed continued to organise a large number of trainings, education, having good international co-operation, and that is something we must continue to do in the coming period. We are very interested in this interinstitutional co-operation and good co-operation between the National Assembly and your Agency, but also between all institutions in the anti-corruption chain, I am primarily referring to the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, the courts that prosecute the high corruption, but also to the lower corruption that arises for acts that do not cross more than 200 million dinars. I'll remind you, as MPs from the SNS and the coalition, we've really done a lot of work in the past, when it comes to regulation and this kind of legislative framework that we've missed. In addition to the law on the prevention of corruption, we also passed the Code on protection against alarmers, we amended and completed the Law on Public Procurement, we adopted the Law on Lobbying. Many member states of the Council of Europe do not have the Law on lobbying, and one Serbia that moves forward bravely, which wants to modernise, has such an important law. Also, I want all the citizens and all the MPs here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to remind me that since 1 March of last year, 2018, the application of the Law on Organisation and Authority's jurisdiction in the fight against organised crime, corruption and terrorism has begun and that, as we see from the Justice Ministry reports, we are indeed recording great results as a state. The report is a good opportunity to remember how it was before, when we talk about such a very important topic, the subject of corruption in Serbian society, how it was, how the official position was abused, how it sucked money out of the advertising budget, how we had failed projects across Belgrade, Serbia, failed DS projects, Dragan Gilas, at every turn. The hajka we now have in the media every day, but also in the streets of Belgrade, the hack of Minister Stefanovic and the work of the interior ministry, is being conducted for days, precisely because Minister Stefanovic dared to hit that oatmeal core. We are all clear so far that President Aleksandar Vukic and Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic are not really attacking because they are doing something bad for Serbia, but that someone from the opposition is persistently trying to stop our progress and wants to stop the further growth and development of modern and advanced Serbia. It is clear to all of us so far that Dragan Gilas really has no face, no dignity, no morals, and that the best example was given by my colleague Milena Turk in today's presentation, that this is indeed an example in world history, in world contexts, how a man in politics can be enriched in a quick and easy way when he was in power, because there was no control at the time. Pure fiction is that story he tells every day in the media, that he got rich in the Czech Republic, I guess, in some kind of, Mr. Orlic, selling gum or whatever. He got rich because he moved from function to function. We can switch over all of his companies where Dragan Gilas owned or owned a stake with his political biography since 2003, so we can see how his company's net profits have grown since he was in power and since he changed political functions. I will now provide you with the information pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Council, which was the advisory body of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in 2011, led by the late Verica Barac. The "Multicom Group" was founded in 2004 and "Multicom" and "Darekt Media", by leading Gilas companies, besides "Emoushon" and "Big Print" that Gilas had or still owned, recorded a real increase in net profit year-on-year. Thus, according to the APR in 2008, the Darrekt Media made a net profit of 558m 628m dinars, while in the previous year, 2007, the revenue was lower by nearly 200m. We can see from the biography of Dragan Gilas that he performed various functions in 2007. He began first in 2004 in President Boris Tadic's office, to become a portfolio-free minister, in charge of the National Investment Plan, after which he became mayor of Belgrade and has been in office since August 2008 until 2013. Similarly happening to his other firm, it is a "Multigroup", which, together with related companies in 2008, has achieved a net profit of as much as 498 million 432 thousand dinars. In 2009, the profit grew and amounted to 563 million 130,000 dinars, while the net profit amounted to 790 million 216 thousand dinars in 2010. Indeed, the data we received from the National Bank of Serbia's Treasury, which was pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Council in 2011, when it found that the printing press "Big print" which is a member of the "Multigroup" is working directly with state institutions, including those most financed from the Belgrade city's budget, whose mayor is just now Dragan Gilas. The company provided services to the Belgrade City Assembly, the township of Novi Belgrade, most Belgrade theatres, the Tourist Organisation of Belgrade, the Library, the Cultural Centre, the House of Youth and all those institutions whose founder was the city of Belgrade, while Dragan Gilas was mayor. Also, Verica Barac said in his report on a phenomenon, that Dragan Djilas controlled through his agencies the lease of most of the advertising space on national and regional televisions in Serbia. In order to verify this information, the Council asked RTS for access to information of public importance on 27 September 2010. That information was not received by the Council. Tijanic simply made the decision not to deliver the requested documentation, that it is better to pay the fine for non-compliance with the law as the director of the then RTS and not deliver information of public importance. Part of the request to RTS was also sent to the Council for verification by the United Television Experts. In these demands, indeed, the United Television Experts Association has put forward allegations of serious abuses of official position, corruption, conflicts of interest, staff manipulations, financial malfeasances, violations of the Labour Act, public procurement. Because of this silence in RTS, the work of the Council was blocked and Verica Barac really suffered enormous pressures and could not obtain accurate information and the contract in which RTS operates during Tijanic's run this house. Also, RTS entrusts jobs to independent productions in non-transparent procedures, which raises suspicion that certain stakeholders are making financial benefit, with a value of tens of millions of euros. Once a year, competitions for the selection of independent radio and television production programmes are formally discussed, but the results of these competitions are not announced to the public. So much for the transparency of RTS financing, the Public Service, which is paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would now like to explain in one picturesque way, through two examples, the manner and character of the then-authority of Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, as well as the leaders of RTS. NIRA film and "Television consulting", the "Time for Babies", the company is also co-owner of a multigroup, together with Dragan Gilas, launched the series "Time for Babies", although several months before the signing of the contract between RTS and this firm NIRA film and "Television consulting", there was an identical series with identical content prepared by the RTS team on the orders of TV Belgrade director Nikola Mirkova. However, before the shoot began, RTS Director General Aleksandar Tijanic concluded a private production contract. The same was true with the series “Forty - Eight Hours Wedding. ” We had a situation that the company "Emoushn Salesksn" was awarded this film and that the first Annex of the contract was concluded on 19 June 2006, between the company "Emoushn Salesksn", then owned by Dragan Gilas, and RTS, which envisions that RTS for the rights and broadcasts of 104 episodes of this series "Forty eight hours wedding" will pay "Emousnu" even 12,948 euros per episode. So RTS paid 13,000 euros, so nearly 13,000 euros, for one episode of the "fourty eight hours wedding" series. Worse yet, on June 29th, 2007 Annex was concluded on the extension of the Treaty to 104 more episodes. Also, co-owner of the production until recently was "Multicom Group" Dragan Gilas. According to the Council's Anti-Corruption Report, Gilas had 49% stake in the company. According to these independent TV experts, RTS serially played by independent productions pays even more, from 80 to as much as 130,000 euros per episode, the Verice Barac report said. Today we are discussing the third day of reports of independent regulatory bodies. This is followed by many media outlets, many hardworking journalists who really inform citizens of the Republic of Serbia on a daily basis objectively, truthfully and accurately. And in this room today we have cameras, and in the O.R. next to us, we have a directorship that broadcasts this program of ours today. I am truly convinced that there are many valuable, capable, creative journalists, people who work in the media, cameraman, cameraman, cameraman, people who deal with tones, images, lighting up and I am really sure and convinced that they have the chance, too, that they have the right to create content, but they simply didn't have that chance during Dragan Gilas, because his government's manner was absolute and personal wealth. The one for truth, objective, true journalism absolutely didn't care. Also today, we have had the opportunity to hear from representatives of the SRS often the property card of politicians, how much money Dragan Gilas had. As I said before, Dragan Gilas did not earn his money by selling gum or television rights for certain shows in the Czech Republic. First of all, I want to remind you of the property card he reported at the beginning of the reign, when he was Kostunica's minister. He then reported the following assets: his wife's house on Dedinj, a used "Sab" car brand, and a savings of about 70,000 euros. Today, according to his confession, he has 25m euros worth of property, and only in real estate, we have not set foot in other assets. If these data were indeed true and that everything Mr. Martinović and Mr. Orlic were saying today, and the KRIK portal that spoke about this work biography of Dragan Dilas, he pointed out several times. The KRIK portal has collected the entire assets of Dragan Gilas. The total property, according to the KRIK portal, is 1.649m square meters, i.e. 24m375 000 347 euros. It's the property of Dragan Gilas when he came down from power and decided to boycott the elections, to make these circuses he's making in public space. I have completed political sciences and have studied with a number of journalists, with people who are really involved in politics and research journalism today in a serious and quality way. That's when they taught us in college that power is prone to corruption and that absolute power corrupts and corrupts absolutely. The Serbian language is also rich in an old people's saying, an old folk proverb that says – give the man power to see how it is. So, give the man power, give the man power, then some time will pass, and you will be able to determine who he really is. Because power releases, power shows what kind of man he really is. We had the opportunity to see what kind of people they were when they were in power and Dragan Dilas, and Vuk Jeremic, and Boris Tadic, as well as people very close to him. After all this information and the announcements that I have told you, I would like to say that all that is happening on the public scene and all that is happening in the media is the fruit, the initial chapel for it was burned by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic when he launched a very far-reaching investigation and co-ordinated action between the police and the prosecution about the examination of malversions, about selling and reselling advertising space, sucking money and funding from a public service, such as RTS. Personally, this Dragan Gilas, with his head and beard, brought reality to Serbia. In the pioneer town, near Belgrade, in Kostunica, where it was intended for play space, recreational sports, children's entertainment Belgrade, he made a scaler, brought the first reality to Belgrade. It is about the reality of the "Great Brother" programme and thus polluted public space, and today he tells us about REM reactions, today he tells us about reality programs and comments about programmes in Serbia. Indeed, I was preparing in detail for this presentation today. I've read a lot of material. One of the information I came up with is the situation as the RRA, so it's about the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which precedes REM, how the RRA acted in 2011 and whether the RA members were doing their job or not. It is only 2011 that it starts responding to the RRA, when it submits criminal charges against the media in Serbia, including RTS for breach of the Advertising Law. In 2010, the biggest breach in the RTS work that the RRA found was about protecting the Serbian language in the programme, as it has often been, as the RRA stresses, that the inscriptions are on the latinic letter, but it is said that RTS meets all supervised programming obligations. So the only violation that was against RTS and the program at the time at the public service and other broadcasters was why the inscriptions were not written on Cyrillic, but on Latin. So much for RRA work. Also, we have a situation that during the time of Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas, the state-level institution really implemented large financial resources for advertising. My colleague Vlad Orlic reported yesterday that as much as 2.5 million were paid to advertise Gilas and so on. the success of their government. I come from Belgrade, and I really haven't been able to see that all this time. I could only see the failed projects that were left behind former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas, of the "Tarezl City", a model terrace, underground containers, the most expensive bridge in history, the most expensive bridge in the world, the bridge on Ada, which is not even finished today, but we end it as SNS. In the end, I'd like to finish, that quasi elite stole millions and millions of euros. I come from Workers' Rakovica, more than 600,000 citizens are out of work. The workers who worked hard, who burned, who created these factories, became losers during the night, thrown out into the streets, without pay, without money to finance their family, the future of their children. What was that quasi elite doing in the meantime and why they actually want to grab the chair again, why they want to grab the authorities again, and why every day in all sorts of different ways insult their people, calling them ugly names that we are like a people, stupid, ugly, cartilage. It is what is the character of the government of the leader and of the current leaders of the opposition who.. Why is it their people's fault? Well, the people are guilty because they have dared to deny their trust and because the Serbian people and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have dared to deny their trust and deny them the vote in all the elections since 2012. You will no longer underestimate the people of this country. You won't call them ugly and pervasive names. We are a rising nation, and we are a people who, thanks to our President, Alexander Vukic, are once again given the pride that we have received in the past decades, in the past centuries, perhaps once upon a time. We are a people who truly believe in the future and who will indeed every day with a responsible policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS really advocate that Serbia is moving forward and will be part of the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57940	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The word now has Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57941	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Sikimic, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, we've heard quite well today. First of all, I will express my satisfaction that this report is of quality, which we did not miss the day we gave the vote that you were headed by this agency. We see that a lot has changed, not only through those discussions we had on the Finance Committee, but through this report, which is complete. What particularly falls into my eyes in this report, which is that you have strayed from some way, that earlier it was most important to write a misrepresentation to the MP. I am not running away from the MPs as well as the ministers, as are all those who do public work, to answer for what they do. There was too much, and I had one such case, no, that if, within a time limit of whether it was 15 or 30 days, don't inform the Agency that you got the consent of the Administrative Board that you're doing some other work to be a member of any board of directors or supervisory board of the assembly, you will immediately receive a misapplication. And, if you deliver, I say by delaying that document, the Agency complains to the Court of Appeal, because it is not satisfied because the MP has been released, or has paid only some 3,000 dinars infraction. We need to deal with important issues. There are many topics open here today, among other things, and that's very important. But what matters is what it says in the Strategy, what we talked about both on this committee and with you and other independent regulatory bodies, such as the State Auditor, to prevent the root attempt at corruption, not to talk about what happened now in 2004. 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008. I think we can bring some to justice from this time distance. I can't figure it out, there's a lot of people in this room who are dealing with politics or politics being something extra with their basic interest, so I'm sure their property card is the same today as it was 25 years ago, if we haven't fallen a little bit down on that scale. I can't understand that someone who hasn't nailed in his life after dealing with politics for four and five years comes out rich as a prince. And that it only allowed him to do that because he was involved in politics. Because, I think, unlike many people, there are many honest people in politics and some exceptions, as mentioned here many times, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, who had nothing but "naked", or "adidas" shoes, come out with millions, and nobody wonders where they come from, and that they're bothered by someone now and they're spinping, because that's all they knew. They've never done anything but spin and talk about sharing this people and sharing Serbian citizens. Well, they share. They share on those super-rich, who have been fraudd into wealth, and on all the rest of us who live normally, who want to make a better life for our children, who want to create a successful Serbia that we all live normally from our work. Those who have prevented through some regulatory bodies, I can also claim through RATL, as I have repeatedly asked Telecom and SBB questions as a member of the Telecommunications Committee. "Telecom" for many years did not have the right to sell a single dinar service to someone, so you are monopolies. Now, after many years I see that even today we are not monopolies, that the monopolies are the ones who have 51%. Now, the monopolies could sell their service for six months per dinar, Telecom couldn't, because he's a monopoliest who's never been one. That monopolies could have used state facilities. So telecommunications lines, optical cables, to lay their cables through public lighting, to lay down as I learned the other day, in public utility companies in Belgrade. So he used his position, where he was politically, to perform his economic activity without any compensation. We're not here against someone getting honest work and making money, because that money is going to be made by workers who work in these entities, but that someone is using their political power not to pay the state, not the city, not the municipality, not the public business, so it can't. And I think with all measures and through your agency and through what this Assembly is doing and what the Government and the President of the Republic are doing, we're going to get everyone in place. I hope so, and it seems that mentioning the law on the origin of property and moving that border from 2007 to 90 and some year, has caused a lot of things in this country, that this will bring real results, that everyone will live from their work and be rich, but honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57942	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57943	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Sikimic, with colleagues, fellow Members, in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, Article 26. The agency is obliged to submit an annual report on the work of the National Assembly by 31 March of the current year for the previous year. As for the report itself, I will propose to my colleagues that we accept the report in the voting day, and what I think is important is the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, between 2013 and 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation. The government of the Republic of Serbia gives full support to the Agency for the Anti-Corruption Prevention Act in all parts of the state. This support is to strengthen the Agency's capacity, support on the possibility of extending competence and the necessary budgetary resources for the smooth implementation of the objectives set. We had the opportunity to talk about the new Agency Act to see that it was really necessary for many changes to be made for the simple reason that Serbia had made progress when it came to fighting corruption and implementing the strategy, as recommended by GREC, and the expert commission whose member Mr. Sikimic himself is. On 29.6.2009, two years since Prime Minister Ana Brnabic headed the government. While presenting the positive results, the prime minister proudly spoke of the Chinese "Hasteel" who signed a sales contract with the Serbian government and took over "Zelezaru" Smederevo for 46m euros in "Hastile" investment. The Jelezar will invest 300m euros and retain 5,000 workers. Haysteel came to Serbia thanks to President Vukic and his state-run moves, if also to the friendships of the two countries that follow the silk path and to President Sin Ci Ping. The production capacity of Ironworks is 2.2 million tonnes of steel per year. In 2017, about a million and a half tonnes were produced, and in 2018, 1.8 tonnes of steel. Why did I now tell you about "The Irons," and what does this have to do with the Corruption Agency? There is, because on 10 May 2004, in its report, there is a special accent on the malfeasance over the privatisation of the "Gelezzare" so called. "Sartida", published Verica Barac, which says that the sale of Sartida a.d. and dependent companies in the bankruptcy process, raises a reasonable doubt that it is a classic corruption involving the highest authorities of the executive and judicial authorities and who have misused their position. She continues to say that they have made it possible for a foreign company to gain a privileged position and thus achieve an illegal profit. At the time, Minister Vlahovic did not agree on his own with the future buyer, but included the prime minister, as well as all state institutions of the country. The damage caused by the State, i.e. It also includes the missed effects of foreign investment for its citizens. Such sales gave a clear sign to all potential investors that the state is not ready to comply with neither its own laws nor its commitments. made promises, and neither internationally recognised business standards. This kind of privatisation has upset the public, because together with Sartida, six more subsidiaries have been sold, bought by the Ju-Es style company Kosice, which operates within US companies Ju-Es Steel. The purchase price was 21.1 million dollars and many made the price low, especially after knowing that the buyer was released from all debts that were estimated to be $1.7 billion at the time. For its part, large-scale corruption, and in addition to the involvement of top state and court representatives, the Assistance Corruption Council then addressed the Trade Court with a report and legal analysis of the "Startide" bankruptcy process. What happened next with Ju-Es Steele is well known to both you and the citizens of Serbia. The other day, counterpart Miroslav Aleksic of the People's Party held a press conference on the government's work results after two years. I didn't expect him to say a nice word about the government's performance results, but in the case of "The Irons", he said there was nothing to say, that he did not find any objections. Regardless of his evil intentions that day, trying to minimise the results of the government's work, he failed to find any objection to this topic. His evil intentions do not surprise me, because in the ranks of the People's Party these days there is a great panic over another in a series of affairs related to Vuk Jeremic and the talks that we all had the opportunity to hear in which he spoke against the state of Serbia and mocked all its citizens. Such a set of people, collected from carriages and ropes, who gathered around Dragan Gilas, are nothing more than just one of the most ordinary interest groups for which we all know what problems they have made for the citizens of Serbia, because of negligence and labourlessness. What I want to say at the very end is that Serbia has progressed today, every small chapter, Prime Minister and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, as President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, is being opened to the full at the opening of factories, the employment of workers, the increase of salaries. There is no doubt that Serbia is on the right track and that citizens will know in future that they recognize who works in their interest and who works for their own pocket. In the end, I have to say that the moment Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic announced a review of Djilas's suspicious affairs, the move was launched on Nebojsa Stefanovic. But let us not worry, the investigation will continue, and we provide full support to the government, Minister Stefanovic and President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57944	Thank you. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57945	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Sikinic with his associates, respected fellow MPs, the privatisation process in the Republic of Serbia has proved to be one of the most risky areas of corruption. Now, with one time distance, it is due to the inaccuracy of a series of privatisation regulations and intransparency that many illegalities have been made possible in the previous period. The legal framework has now been amended to address the risks of corruption, regulations governing the process and control of privatisation, reorganisation and bankruptcy of enterprises, particularly with state capital. We want a system of effective application and control of the implementation of positive regulations. The Anti-Corruption Council collected data regarding the national savings bank because it was an expertly designed and done machination. This happened in 2001, 2002, 2003, and due to a lack of law which clearly defines active and passive participation in corruption, which was designed and designed to keep the machination unpunished until today and no one has been convicted. In the case of the National Savings Bank, experts, depicted in public, have been expert in stealing millions. These examples of the regime of power with corruption have continued to descend. In 2015, members of the MUP arrested the contractors and managers of the Vojvodina Development Bank, who illegally obtained 18m euros. With the top of the Vojvodine Development Bank, they provided anti-legal property benefits for companies in which they manage and approve the anti-zaconic loan payment. They immediately agreed on conditions for granting credit ratings, although their financial situation and creditability do not meet the legal requirements for the authorisation of placements and it was known in advance that loans would not be able to pay off. Vojvodina's development bank was knowingly collapsing into the end of what happened. Then the Duke's Development Fund as a savior is included in the story. At the head of the Fund Management Board, to remind everyone, Bojan Pajtic, whose time of ordinary actions of the Vojvodina Development Bank were paid for 5,606,619,036.00 dinars more than their value on the stock market. The essence of the purchase of the prepaid actions of the Vojvodina Development Bank was not an increase in the financial potential of the fund, but a cover of the loss of the Development Bank caused by poor business and the establishment of its liquidity at the expense of the Fund. The same bank was credited to politicians and their loved ones who were known to be unable to return them. For example, the Democratic Party took a loan worth 360 million dinars with a monthly interest of just 1.4% a year, with no guarantees, from the Vojvodine Development Bank, whose majority owner was Bojan Pajtic's government. The Democratic Party did not repay the entire debt which was reprogrammed in the meantime, and the Vojvodine Development Bank went bankrupt in 2013 precisely because of loans made on the political line. What's going on now, 2019? Alliance for Serbia leader Dragan Gilas bought the DS debt to the bank for 38m dinars, and then signed a contract with the party saying it owes him 49m dinars. For all of this, an 18% interest is charged on an annual basis, and in the name of that debt, so that in buying out the party's debt, he immediately earned 11 million dinars. In one day a contract is signed with the notaries between Gilas i.e. his firm and Development Bank for 38 million, and immediately afterwards, Gilas signs a contract with Bojan Pajtic, then president of the DS, saying the party owes 49m to Gilas, how much she owed to the bank itself. So Gilas was good for $11 million at the start. It is immoral, not only for the citizens of Serbia, but also for its DS friends, because it literally greened them at 18% per year's interest. In contrast, the SNS advocates the implementation of the UN Convention against Corruption, as well as provisions contained in the Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption and the Civil Law Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe. In these conventions, corruption is qualified as a criminal offence, and participants in the public or private sector are required full responsibility for compensation for all who have suffered material or immaterial loss due to corruption. Modern financial crime is highly sophisticated and difficult to detect, so the SNS is passing legal regulations that are systematically combating abuse and corruption. We insist on the professional training of state authorities and the pursuit of financial crime, which could also benefit from co-operation with international organisations such as the OSCE, OECD or the institutions of the European Union, the Council of Europe. A very important message from the SNS is that there are no untouchables and that we are on our way to root out corruption. It can't happen overnight, but it's important that we all stick together, both of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57946	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57947	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, we have today's report from the Anti-Corruption Agency. The fight against corruption is very important and is certainly a priority in Serbia's reform process. I would stress that the fight against corruption is not only one of the conditions for European integration, but we must also deal with corruption beyond Eurointegration and it is certainly very important to work to raise citizens' awareness of what it is that competent institutions are dealing with the fight against corruption and how it is done. In the media, I found a survey of the USAID project for responsible authorities, which showed that citizens do not trust the Anti-Corruption Agency. They express great confidence that Serbia's president is the most committed to this fight, which is certainly a fact, and this was also found by European institutions. According to citizens' perception, corruption in Serbia is something rooted and common and rarely decided to report corruption, in most part nepotism is considered to be represented by citizens. I beg you, Mr. Sikimic, if you have any other information and more complete to correct me if I'm wrong. However, the Agency's budget is now higher and you are granted new jobs, and I believe you will work more to raise awareness and encourage citizens to report corruption. As far as the legal framework is concerned, we have also taken another step forward in this part, we have passed the Anti-Corruption Law, which extends the Agency's powers, i.e. powers. I will remind you, the Anti-Corruption Agency has free insight into the bank accounts of the officials, but also the possibility of accessing the bank accounts of the connected persons, with prior consent of the officials. When I say connected faces, I mean spouses, children, parents, brothers, sisters, etc., so we covered that part. Like all my colleagues, I can't help but look back at the past and not express my personal position, as well as the attitude of a large number of Serbian citizens related to the multimillion-dollar assets of Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas, because they are symbols of corruption in Serbia and it is truly amazing that their shame is being played in public. However, I will remind you that there is a law on the origin of the property, which has since been announced, has caused general hysteria with Mr. Jeremic and Gilas. Gilas's panic has also contributed to an investigation announced by the police minister, related to his company's business "Darrekt Media". The prosecution and police are investigating possible corruption, as there are fundamental suspicions that Gilas and his company's employees, along with the work of former RTS leadership, participated in serious corruption. We are all witnessing the pressure that Dragan Gilas, through his media, carries out on anyone who dares to talk about his criminal actions and his wealth at the expense of citizens, especially the citizens of Belgrade, who focused on robbery. The fight against corruption is uncompromising and must cover everyone, including Dragan Gilas, who thought he was untouchable. We sincerely expect to find out that Dragan Gilas from the founding role in the account of his first agency, not greater than 1,000 euros, became one of the richest people in Serbia in a few years, just at the time of the DS rule, one of the largest officials. What Gilas applies, in order to prevent the emergence of information about his corrupt actions in public, is called the tycoon method and the powerful man who has been identified in the United States as blind, which means in translation – strategic lawsuits against public participation, which scares everyone who discloses his criminal actions. Every honorable man in this country wants to be exposed once and for all by tycoon Gilas and similar to him, Jeremic and the rest of their team, therefore full support for every form of fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57948	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is Mr. Sikimic. Here you go, Mr. Sikimic, right on line or answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57949	Thank you, Chairman. There's one thing I need to make you right. It's incorrect that citizens don't trust the Agency. The agency was also listed as one of the leading institutions, or one of the authorities most trusted by Serbian citizens. In that part, I must correct you. I was at the presentation of that report. We're partners, or the Agency is working closely with USAID, I have these results, I don't have them, I can get you relatively fast, but the Agency is among the leading authorities and it's incorrect that citizens don't trust her. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57950	Thank you, Mr. Sikimic. The right to replica has Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57951	So you don't get me wrong, I'm so glad I made a mistake, that I had bad information. I support the Agency's work and I'm really glad that citizens have confidence in the Agency, that is, in the Agency's work and what the Agency is doing. I wish that, if you have the opportunity, you are working further to strengthen these links between citizens and the Agency, because I believe that you depend on information from the field, or on the reporting of corruption by citizens. I therefore believe that more should be done to encourage citizens to report corruption cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57952	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Now, the word has an Ana Charapic. Here you go, colleague Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57953	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today when we discuss the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency in 2018, it is important to point out that the Republic of Serbia is fully committed to curbing corruption. Fighting corruption, curbing and eradicating corruption is a prerequisite for a healthy economy, for a market economy and a continuous inflow of foreign and domestic investment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been committed to curbing corruption and the digitisation measures implemented intensively since 2014. I will remind Serbian citizens that just as of January 1st 2014, there has been a united collection that has allowed our country to achieve fantastic results in tax and contribution collection, stabilisation of public finances and, of course, the repression of corruption in the part. Thanks to the combined charge, the 2018 Anti-Corruption Agency report states that just in the first quarter, therefore, only in the first quarter was submitted close to a million and 600 tax returns by electronic means, which are indeed excellent results. How committed the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to curb corruption is the Report of the Anti-Corruption Body of the Council of Europe, i.e. GRECO, which was published on April 2, 2019, has been discussed several times by colleagues. In fact, Serbia is appreciated by a globally satisfactory assessment of corruption, and since 13 recommendations we have fulfilled 10, and in 2019 we fulfilled two more, namely the Law on the Prevention of Corruption on 21 May 2019, and at the end of 2018 and the Law on Lobbying, which my colleagues spoke of. Also, colleagues said the Assembly Committee on Finance voted, and the Ministry of Finance approved additional employment at the Anti-Corruption Agency, which will help the Agency to carry out the powers that are in its jurisdiction even better and more effectively. We had a chance today to hear that the Agency's budget for 2019 is 18,640,000 higher than the previous one, which is indeed for every praise and testifying that indeed the government is maximumly committed to curbing corruption. But as it seemed to contain corruption in the DOS regime, we can best see it in the case of the Social Accounting Service. Namely, the Social Accounting Service was founded in 1962 in the SFRY and it was the service that was most effectively organised, which served as state accountant, records and controllers. She survived the sanctions, the Social Accounting Service survived the wars, survived when everything in the state was in crisis, but did not survive the record regime, because the Social Accounting Service was not responding to them. The service protected the citizens by controlling whether the citizens were retired and health insurance. On the other hand, it followed the inflow into the tax-based budget so that the state could carry out its functions uninterruptedly, i.e. in order to be able to finance the activities that are of general interest both to the people and to the state. The whole world was amazed and amazed at how we managed to organize and preserve such an effective institution and thus an effective mechanism of information payment control. But, but also countless, but the Dossian regime didn't like someone controlling them, controlling someone's payments and making any payments in our country. That is why the Social Accounting Service was shut down on December 31st, 2002, in a humiliating way with members of police units who allegedly helped employees leave their jobs. In the rooms of the Social Accounting Service, she continued to operate the famous and famous National Savings Centre under strange circumstances. Otherwise, shutting down the Social Accounting Service in 2002 by the Dossov regime was a prerequisite, i.e. the main cause of corruption in our country. From that moment on, since 1 January 2003, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been on the move through robbery privatisation, i.e. to implement robbery privatisations, state property and our country is on the verge of collapse. The money flows were not recorded by the Social Accounting Service because the service was gone. According to data from international organisations in the Republic of Serbia, over 51 billion US dollars of state money has been carried out and that is no less than on accounts in the British Virgin Islands through offshore companies. So the factories were shut down, the corruption was booming, the workers were out of work on the street, and the individuals were getting rich and boasting. Due to social peace and cheap political points, the previous regime has taken too expensive loans to pay pensions and salaries to employees in public enterprises. That's how the state got into a whirlwind of ruin, debt and poverty. He threatened to bankrupt us. It was only in 2012 that they realized that an institution should be organised to monitor payment traffic, but it was too late. In 2012, the citizens said "no" to the Dossov regime and drove them into the past. The people said they didn't trust them anymore. Well, their government's advice on the fight against corruption made up a report, namely the late Mrs Verica Barac, which represents the destruction of the Serbian industry, the economy, the entire economy. And to be clear, the economy can't be bad, it can only be bad people who run the economy, and the regime was bad. The facts testify to that. The destruction of the sugar industry is a school example of thieving and manifesto of DOS. In 2003, Serbia took a chance from the EU to raise sugar industry. If they had done so, they would have employed over half a million people in the entire sugar production chain. However, they were not interested in citizens and came to the sense that they were very wise to import sugar from the surrounding countries at the price-subsidised prices and to export it to the EU at preferential prices. However, the EU has seen that production in Serbia is missing, sugar production, and as much sugar as you want and, of course, it has imposed sanctions on Serbia on imports of sugar from the Republic of Serbia. The then government, of course in agreement with the Customs Department, argued that, for God's sake, customs had not done their job well, and the Customs Administration had never been in charge of you. It's only one example in a series of how they destroyed the entire Serbian economy. We don't want to ever come back that time again. This is not what we, nor Serbia's citizens, have pointed out on several occasions in the elections, so today both the government and Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic are doing everything possible to make Serbian citizens live better, and hundreds of new factories and hundreds of thousands of new jobs testify. Dear members of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Mr Sikimic, you alone are responsible for continuing your work, me and my colleagues from the SNS Group's MP are not afraid of corruption, nor of the law, and therefore we will continue to monitor and support your work in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57954	Thank you, colleague Charapic. The word is Vesna Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57955	Thank you. The Anti-Corruption Agency is certainly one of the most important bodies in the area of prevention of the fight against corruption and in order to achieve its objectives, networking and co-operation with related institutions on both domestic and international terms is necessary. This is detailed in the report we are considering today. I would certainly refer to that part, as the Agency's activities are covered by an action plan to implement the national anti-corruption strategy from 2013 to 2018, however, the revised version that has been implemented since 2016 is now being implemented. Serbia is a candidate country for EU membership. So far we've opened 17 of the 35 chapters. The first chapters include, as I say, the most demanding, the most extensive, and these are chapters 23 and 24. Chapter 23 also includes the fight against corruption. For this reason, I am particularly pleased because there is a very good and close co-operation of the Agency with the European Commission, because this is important for strengthening the capacity of the Anti-Corruption Agency. This report lists a number of activities with international organisations, with other countries. These are mainly EU Member States. I'd like to mention digital corruption conferences, responsibility in strengthening transparency as well. Through the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, the EU's IPA Fund has been financed by a tweening project – Prevention and Combating Corruption, which certainly contributes to strengthening the Agency's capacity in terms of expertise and recognition of corruption. It is a very important collaboration between the OSCE and USAID, and I think it is good that the accent is put on the prevention of corruption. Corruption exists both in the most developed countries and in the less developed and this type of co-operation is important because of the exchange of experiences and of course the application of good examples from practice. For efficient work, not only the Anti-Corruption Agency but also other bodies in this area are of paramount importance, the Law on the Protection of Alertors, which colleagues have spoken of, which provides for the full protection of people who report corruption, encourages each individual to report abuses without having any consequences for their actions. All of us who do public work are obliged to the Anti-Corruption Agency, of course to submit a report on our incomes, on our property situation. The agency controls and finance political activities and transparency in the work is the basis for preventing corruption. Corruption, as I said, occurs in every country in the world, appears in many areas. It is up to us to work together to establish an effective system of control and sanctioning. We have brought in good legal frameworks and we have institutions that deal professionally with this problem. The state's reaction has not failed when it comes to sanctioning numerous examples of corruption and we have been able to see it, indeed, for the last few years. In the end, I believe that this report is accurate and clear, that it covers all areas, very detailed, which the Agency is dealing with and that it is of course to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57956	Thank you. A colleague of Dubravka Filipovski has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57957	Thank you, Chairman. We are in the finale of these today's debates, respected members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, the fight against corruption is one of the priorities in Serbia's reform process on its importance, for every country should not be specifically talked about, but it cannot be successful without coordination and co-operation with all relevant actors and institutions in this area. This is why it is very important for the state to ensure competitiveness at all levels, transparency, prevention, as well as increasing the overall efficiency of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Parliaments should be on the front line in the fight against corruption, through the adoption of adequate laws and their supervision. We have been working with the Anti-Corruption Agency for several years now, but also through the national branch of GOPAK, which we formed several years ago and which is one of the 56 branches established in the world, because we believe that parliament should be on the front line in the fight against corruption and the public in the work, supervision of public finances and the fight against corruption are our top priorities. I consider it a very important fact that August 14th should begin the application of the Law on Lobbying, the new Act on Agency has expanded the jurisdiction of your institution, your independence as well as financial independence is strengthened. In the reports we are discussing today, you stated that a 275 official check was carried out in 2018, that reports were still being considered for 186 officials from the republican level, and that at local level were being conducted by 116 officials. Because of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I also want to say that there are ministers, and MPs, and state secretaries, and mayors, and members of the council, therefore, this is unquestionably evidence that there is no protection in the fight against corruption, there is no practice from the previous years when it was waiting for an old court trial, so that only then it starts to be resolved, every case is being prosecuted, there is no protected by a party book, social status or wealth, no longer waiting for anyone to become an ex-leader, so that an investigation is launched against him. In the past few years, the state has recognised the need to systematically fight corruption, is committed in this fight, and it also says in favour of the fact that the application of the Law to the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption, in just a year's time 444 convictions have been passed. Good results are also achieved when it comes to money laundering in other areas. However, I see a serious problem in the act of denying everything that is being done in Serbia, and this from the part of the opposition that is not here in parliament and which in the street of violence tries to take over power, but cannot explain how they have become rich and that only one man, Dragan Gilas, has earned 500m euros, while hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens have lost their jobs in the period from 2008 to 2012. There is no explanation of who Patrick Ho is and where to account for Vuk Jeremic's money from the man convicted of embezzlement, only an announcement of the initiation of an investigation against Dragan Djilas has launched a hack against Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who has promoted in every sense the work of the Ministry of Labour and who regularly fulfils his legal obligations and as a minister sends reports to the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, whose I am a member of the report on his work. In the next period, I want you, bravely and in accordance with your responsibilities, to fight all the challenges that you have made, to continue your international activity, because corruption is like weed if we don't systematically fight it, it's unstoppingly spreading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57958	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The word is Dr Branimir Rancic. You have a little time, so try to discuss... Two minutes, just to warn you that you can fit your speech, Doctor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57959	This short time to thank the guests, Mr. Sikimic and his guests, and the honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament. What do you say in two minutes? Well, I'm only going to turn to the area of your extensive report, and that's the area of health. Due to the easier comparison, public authorities' actions leading to corruption have been classified by areas key to building systemic anti-corruption mechanisms, as recognised by the National Anti-corruption Strategy for the period 2013. - 2018. Following that criterion and the reporting period, 52 health performances were recorded, as shown on the table on page 22 of this Report. Within the area of the health strategy, health care has been formulated with three objectives. Given the time I have left, I would only refer to the work of the Serbian Medical Chamber. The members of the Management Board of the Lek Chamber of Serbia for the first five months of 2016 took six million dinars from the Chamber register for travel expenses only, and nearly 14,000,000 dinars in 2015. Seventeen board members took the money to transport as if they were going to meet their own vehicle, and they were coming to a group of sanity. For every arrival, they practically took about 20,000 dinars from the Chamber register, although the road cost them nothing. At the time, the director Vesna Jovanovic, who found such a practice and wanted to break it, suggested that the diaries be reduced from 2,300 dinars to 150 dinars, as much as in the government, but came across resistance. For example, the chairman of the Management Board, Dr Milan Simic, employed at the Clinical Centre in Nis, took nearly 8,000,000 dinars in ten years for various compensations. In the first five months of 2016 alone, 800,000 dinars were included in the cost name. And, finally, here, I'll end up in a few seconds, at the expense of the Medical Chamber, there were 5.5m euros at the time. The medical chamber annually earns about 220 million dinars only from the membership fees of 30,000 doctors, which 0.8% of the salary each month is paid into account, while 70% of these are spent on the travel expenses of many doctors. Also, a new regulation for the purchase of a building is adopted around 2m euros, and in the selection of real estate, watch this, not the commission, but the organs of the Lek Chamber. So in the survey that was done on the question -- do we need a chamber like this, 95.27% of doctors said no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57960	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. If it's all right with you, I wouldn't read the names of my colleagues any further, since the time has been spent. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57961	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I hope that you too will show a democratic potential for discussion in Parliament, as your colleague Arsic just recently shocked the entire hall that he was well-leading the assembly session. As far as today's agenda is concerned, The topic we're talking about, we as a society and as a state have experienced in the past 19 years a serious monster, a very big and tragic accident called G17 plus, i.e. a group, formed as some group of foreign-backed economic experts, so-called institutions. The Washington Consensus, which was supposed to bring Serbia in order for the Serbian economy to stand on its feet, to finally solve the many years of problems that we had in the economy and to overcome, so-called. transition. From 2000 to 2014 the group of hohstuplers and frauds participated officially and institutionally in implementing policies from the position of government in Serbia and Miroljub Labus, and Mladjan Dinkic and everyone else, both at the local and regional level. Corruption has been kind of legitimate in Serbia ever since. She was legal. Corruption has become a rule in Serbia, not an exception, and since 2014, the same people in other parties have been doing what they did before 2014. All you see is Young Dinkic. As far as I'm concerned, he's still one of the advisers of the president of the Republic for economic issues, a man who's had a hard time and reversed the Serbian economy, which is a synonym for crime and corruption in Serbia, but has no indictments against him, no process whatsoever, nothing. As one of the government's representatives who very often appears in public, who repeatedly disgraced our country, violated relations with friendly states, such as the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, insults the Serbian Orthodox Church, today the person Zorana Mihajlovic, the only known relapse in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, G17 Plus. She used to be in the office of Miroljub Labus. And today, he's doing the same thing she did at the time when G17 plus was harassing Serbia. The last week we talked, that is, the discussion was about establishing a national, that is, a public interest in building a so-called. The Moravia Corridor or Preljina-Pojate highway, which should bring together two corridors from the public, i.e. from the means of mass information, we could find out that a protocol has already been signed between the government and the US firm Bechtel, which should be the contractor of these works, and a subcontractor of the Turkish company that is subcontractors of Bechtel, at a price of about 800m euros. So, without a tender, without competition, without any possibility of us having any other companies that might be cheaper, more favourable, with more favourable loans, with the possibility that our companies could be subcontractors, if we can't do it ourselves, no, but with the Bechtel decree and it has to be "Bechtel", an American firm, even though we may have had Azerbaijani, Chinese and some others that could have been much cheaper, even 50% cheaper. So it's a picture and an opportunity of the situation in our society, that we consider it not only as the National Assembly, but in general, as well as the entire informed public, as if it were something quite normal. So, it's normal to go around all the legal procedures and have one such big deal entrusted, by the hand of a minister, to a company there, in this case, an American, no tender, with nothing and for much more money than it really is worth and what could be spent, i.e. to pay less. Now, that's the situation in the field of fighting corruption. What more than that? That's enough. As long as we have this behavior at the top of the executive, what are we talking about? The arrest of Pozega, among other things, and the president of the municipality, and I don't know which one of the officials is, can't make justice fight corruption. If we have a minister in the government who is 300m euros in state money, taxpayers' money, gifts to an American firm, and all of this is nominated by the American ambassador, that's the fact, how can we talk about progress, praises from the EU, Council of Europe, the OSCE, GRECO, FATF or this one, or anyone? We don't need to talk about it at all. If that's how one identified problem we're not able to solve, what kind of fight against corruption are we talking about? Other spheres are also critical, i.e. alarming – health care. A few years ago, the President of the Republic criticised the state of health, a year and a half ago, it seems to me, because nearly a million euros were spent on KC in Nis more than was planned and separated and, in his words, no one knows where that money went and why so much has gone on and now the President of the Republic has said something like that, and the minister has no answer to that, no one, Zlatibor Loncar remains a minister, no one asks him anything. Where a million euros went missing, it doesn't matter. Recently, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic also said on television one, it seems to me at a press conference, of all defined health funds, 20% we are unable to determine where he is going and his words are – if you ask me, I really have no idea. No one sees the problem and Zlatibor Loncar is still a minister and a successful minister? How's that? How do we fight corruption? It seems to me, such as the situation with the existence of some other institutions and bodies formed by the Republic of Serbia, such as the Fiscal Council, such as the Competition Protection Commission, is enough for us here to fulfill the form. There's an agency, there's a council, there's a commission, and if anything really changes on that plan, it doesn't matter. So we don't have any content, but we have a form, that is, form. It's the same with the Anti-Corruption Agency. Mrs. Kuburovic is here during the discussion of the so-called "Cuburovic". Tijana's law has repeatedly cited, since there have been mergers of agenda points, and where one of the changes was related to the crime of not reporting property, as it is a good step towards preventing corruption in Serbia, not reporting property punishable up to five years in prison. Does that make sense? That doesn't make any sense for an adult. Not reporting property is fighting corruption? It's nebulose. I must say, we are not talking about "Bechtel" and this whole affair and Zorana Mihajlovic because we hate her. We don't hate her, we don't want to have anything to do with her, but we point to everything she does. In addition to all this, it has repeatedly insulted our traditional and sincere friends, our allies in our fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia, which are companies from China that participated in major infrastructure projects in Serbia, and these are companies from Russia that participate in the construction of the railway, primarily the railways of Belgrade – Budapest. Everything is so public, and then we have on the other hand to see that the American ambassadors are coming to its glory, that it stands next to the US ambassador when he says at a press conference that Kosovo is an independent state, and the minister in the government, which is supposed to be at least in principle, and that is how he fights for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia's borders, stands and observes it peacefully, without any comment, disagreements, anything else. There's nothing else he can say to me except that this lady agrees with that statement. And we can't be, like the previous speakers said in the previous debate... This is because we are against Zorana Mihajlovic, against the construction of the Moravski Corridor, no, it is a need, especially for residents from those places in Serbia, through which this highway will pass, and it would be extraordinary and excellent, but we cannot possibly be in crime to build this road. That's problematic, like Belgrade on the water. Belgrade on the water is not a bad idea and a bad project in itself, and I agree that it should be there, on Savi and it should be, it looks much better than it looked before and I did not object and I never stood up for it, nor did I say that if we were able to, that's all nonsense, but not transparency of the investor's election process is problematic. The tender could also be announced. They don't just have experts in projects from the UAE company or in this case from America. Not only do Americans know how to make roads. It's the 20th century. We have a situation today that 80% of the richest and most successful companies on the planet are on the list of so-called. Fortune 500 of the 500 most powerful registered in Shanghai, China. It's the economic center of the world, it's the economic center of its business in the world. It can't be something that's backwards if we stand up for it, as deeply as possible, and as often as possible with those countries. There was also a dilemma here about some local coalitions. I must say that I agree with Mr Janjusevic of the SNS who said Serbs with their neighbours should live in peace in their places where there is a majority Muslim population and that is correct. In Prijepolje and Priboj, and in each of these places, they should live with their neighbours in brotherly harmony and peace and love, etc., and that is what we need to strive for, but cannot be one archaic for coalitions with the SDA that openly call for Sandzak's separation, they call Serbia a fascist state, and they do not mind taking part in the institutions of that same state for money, which say Stefan Necessance is a war criminal, that Serbs committed genocide in Sandzak and, in all of that, name the streets in Novi Pazar after Ali Izetbegovic, Acif-Fendi and whom not all of them. I guess it's the same archaic for everyone. It can't be someone who makes political performances in the Republic Square worse than someone who calls for separatism. We never, I just want to say, have we not said that Serbs are the most powerful, that we are going to break the EU and NATO, that is all nonsense. We never said that. We are only realistically looking at the situation on the ground, and it is such that in negotiations with the EU Serbia can only lose, can only be further humiliated, experience an additional economic collapse until a day that no one knows when this could happen and plus they are telling us openly and that the EU will not expand and that we should recognise Kosovo's independence in order to be members. We are in favour of integration with Russia, but not to declare Serbia a federal unit within the Russian Federation, but to experience a degree, that is. to make such a degree of integration through the Eurasian Union, through the Union and partnership with the BRIKS countries, with the countries of the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, where we can co-operate with some of the world's most powerful countries on equal grounds without any political conditions. That's what our policy is all about, that's what we stand for. This is not a sign that we are not showing concern for the Serbian people living in Republika Srpska, Montenegro and today's Croatia and anywhere. No, I don't. We showed concern for the people at the time of our local government in the municipality of Zemun in 1996 when we helped all those Serbs who were exiled from Republika Srpska to get home and to continue their lives on the territory of the municipality of Zemun. Even one village of Busia, Blue Horizonti, Altina, Ugrinovci, Batajnica, the then Surcin, which was the entire municipality of Zemun, and today is a special municipality. What we could do for these people, we helped them, we showed them what to do and how to help our countrymen. We didn't say we wanted to count dead heads. We never said that. We didn't say that if we came to power or had any major success in the election, we would start the tanks and go to Knin or Pristina. We never said that, but we didn't say that Knin and Pristina weren't Serbian either. Both Knin and Pristina, and Cetinje, and Dubrovnik, and Sarajevo, we think it's Serbian, but we don't think we're going to go to war with the whole world, but we think we'll keep it in the minds and spirit of our people when geopolitical and historical circumstances, when they're like that, that Serbs are returning their territories again, whether they'll be in this century, next, in 200 or 300 years, we shouldn't give up, as well as Kosovo and Metohija. No one calls for war. I'm sorry, Mr. Marinkovic, that's what I've been answering for before. Alexander Vukitch went to Srebrenica. I agree that every innocent victim deserves to pay his respects, but not to participate in a necrophilic political performance like every 11th July in Srebrenica. And if it honors the victims of Srebrenica, Muslim, it is not necessary to forget Bratunac and Zalazier, where it honors tragically injured Serbs from the Podrinj region. If Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic goes to Srebrenica, then he must also go to Bratunac. Not one victim is more important than the other, and the fact that there won't be any political benefits from the West, if it doesn't bring in Bratunac or Zalazij, that's another thing. I guess we need, first of all, to think of us and our own and remember and never forget our victims, the victims of our people, who is one of the most suffering people in the 20th century after the Russians and Jews. That's what we stand for. We don't hit war drums and we never did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57962	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57963	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Sikimic, with his associates, honourable MPs, today, at the end of this debate, we need to draw certain conclusions when it comes to the report, the work of the Agency itself for 2018, but we need to answer some questions that may be open here, which are not at all within the competence of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The attempt here is to bring down certain strategic state projects at the level of fighting corruption, and in fact it is a fight for new jobs and policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state and all those institutions that want good to this country, to their people because only economic growth and development provide new jobs, provide the future of work and the future of life in Serbia, both young people and those who have completed their working life. And why am I saying this? Because we keep hearing stories about whether a Bechtel firm will take over a particular infrastructure. The question should be asked how certain Chinese and Russian companies have taken their share of business in the Republic of Serbia, which is, in fact, a reflection of the responsible policy, foreign and domestic policy that has led SNS since 2012 to lead its party president, Aleksandar Vukic, and as prime minister, and today as president of the country. This is the answer when we say the responsibility of a politician and a political party that has a platform, which is that all institutions really need to do their jobs, and the political will was precisely Mr. Vukic that the Anti-Corruption Agency should also do its job at full capacity. By 2012, not only your Agency, but many institutions were not able to work independently. Today we are talking, after seven years, from 2012 on capacity improvements, an increasing number of employees, about the higher budget, about co-operation with international actors who are willing to come here to work together with the Anti-Corruption Agency and today have the support of all relevant entities in society for this. It also took political courage, but also political strength, to simply as someone who runs a country's policy really opens Serbia to this way and to think and to function. Therefore, it is for this to really honor Mr. Vukic for opening up the possibility of certain institutions working like this, and for you to finally come here with reports against how many officials have been brought up certain proceedings, certain lawsuits, simply that those 36 MPs who have started the proceedings here have no problem with that. They have no problem with an institution called the Anti-Corruption Agency. But what we had a chance to hear today, which is that not reporting property is not considered a fight against corruption, I'm sorry, we here who simply voted on a new legal solution that the Agency should do we consider to be one way to hide our assets by hiding what the Agency should do its job for. So here we have today and some replacement the thesis that the choice of a strategic partner is the government of the Republic of Serbia in certain matters is a form of corruption. In advance, it is an attempt to condemn certain companies for something they should be doing here in Serbia. I beg your pardon, but this is not seen either of these congregation majority, and I think you as the Agency that should be doing a certain job, because you are not competent to simply question corruption in that part when it comes to certain strategic partners of the Serbian state. For this, there are certain other institutions, if proven, to prove that there are individuals who perform certain functions that have really entered into a certain relationship that can make us say that they participated in a particular corruption process. There's a court for that, and there's a verdict for that, and that's something that you guys are doing. Therefore, it is obvious that what you have stated in your reports and conclusions is that cooperation with other institutions is needed, to distinguish the competences of certain institutions, and that there must be coordination of these institutions and that simple committees, that the place where this should be done through certain reports, with greater transparency of our work and your work and public participation, shows that this is actually the right way to try to fight corruption. The results show that the increasing transparency of work shows that this corruption is being reduced, because you are ultimately assessing the indicators that have been given to you, on the basis of which you need to say whether the fight against corruption has been increased, whether corruption in certain parts, when it comes to public procurement, performs functions of certain officials at the level of the Republic and local self-government is greater or smaller. And that's what you gave in your report last year. We have seen on the basis of these reports on the implementation and implementation of these indicators that we have a long way to go in fact to fight corruption, that we have much to change, as we have changed the law, that now there are rules, that there are certain rules, that it is not only the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but also the Law on Lobby. Then we have certain laws to comply with EU directives and we do so. I think that's where you hear what you've had today in the debate to hear how ready we really are to work constructively with you, but you should hear that we want to know how to spend, simply the budget of Serbian citizens. Who are the people who are the bearers of important functions who spend the Serbian citizens' budget in a certain way, that with the help of the state auditory institution, we must warn that we want to have a picture of how they spend the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but what their property is. We have experience from the past that says that certain people who were in high state functions, such as Vuk Jeremic, as foreign minister, such as Mr. Gilas, who was mayor of Belgrade, incorrectly spent the budget of Serbian citizens for his own benefit, on a copy of his assets reported today to the Agency, and at the expense of citizens who had to be in charge of the budget, say at the level of the city of Belgrade, 1.2 billion dinars, made a debt that all citizens of Belgrade had to pay back, and today, as they paid off, even when he was mayor. Therefore, what is really important to us is that co-operation exists between the institutions and the MPs and the committees, that integration relating to European integration in different chapters, which is related to the fight against corruption, that your co-operation with regard to our participations is one of the important segments of the fight against corruption, such as the delegation and our participation in the Council of Europe Assembly. It has your support, because you directly participate in the work of the GRECO Working Group which is very important, not only for us, but for all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Serbia is one of those members. She shows that great progress in the work. So it shows that it has an active relationship with this topic, and indeed when we leave and the IMF, when we have the report, they show that this level of corruption has been reduced compared to 2012 and that, thanks to that, economic reforms and fiscal consolidation have been implemented in Serbia. So that someone had to work really seriously and think about how they would reduce the degree of corruption from 2012 to today, so that they could simply make many changes in society. Changes in society have also been made on the basis of competition from both Russian and US companies and Azerbaijani and Chinese and EU countries. So, basically, we have shown that the fight against corruption is giving its results. And that's why I think that your content that you gave for last year's report has really come across the support of all the three committees that are in charge of your work and I think that in the voting day it's justified that this report of yours will be voted upon, and we hope that next year he will give better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57964	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57965	Thank you. These remaining few minutes as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to use once again to support the report of the representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency and to point out something that the citizens and how well they know, which is that so far the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done much to prevent corruption on the one hand, on the other hand, from preventing such a negative social phenomenon. It's about justice. Given that even the judiciary is not immune to corruptive activity, I just need to draw attention to one fact that is known to the public, which is that recently a large number of judges have been arrested and prosecuted for corrupting. Thus, the Lazarevec judge, who made a procedural mistake for 2,000 euros in order to free the perpetrator of the crime, therefore, a classic form of corruption, deprived of freedom. The judge in Chačka, also for taking bribes. Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court for taking bribes. The judge in Šapco, and the president of the court, inspired by the President of the Loznica court, also commits a corrupt crime by accepting an illegal and unfounded request to return to the previous situation. Why am I saying this? I am talking about a political pamphlet recently called by my distinguished counterpart Martinovic, when, for daily-political purposes, it is exclusively the government, the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, among those who have not been here, who have been missing for a long time, although they belong exclusively here and not in the hall or on the street, so they say - yes, it is a political influence on the judiciary. Apparently, we influence the judiciary, we influence the judges. It is these examples that I have cited that are fundamental proof that there is absolutely no political influence on the judicial system, because here are corrupt acts where judges have succumbed to money that has given various tycoons, various financial lobbys, various, because I am not going to call them because I am going to use a full and ugly term, but people from the bottom of the social scale, that is, from the foundation. What's this about? Is that political influence? Well, if it were political influence, the question is what would be the verdict with the Cosmic. Neither Alexander Vukic nor Ivica Dacic were released by the Cosmajca, but by the court. So, in that sense, is political influence present on the judiciary? All these phenomena that I have stated in an unequivocally clear way suggest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to fighting corruption and all kinds of corrupt action and that it is not a political pamphlet, as they accuse us, or as those who deserve nothing, how they label us. So they say, yes, you're going on an election campaign with anti-corruption parolees, and then you're going into a corrupt operation. It is these examples that I have highlighted that the government of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely committed to fighting corruption, that the results of the fight against corruption are obvious, that this fight against corruption will continue, because today, in the opening part, I pointed out that immunity to corruption and corruption can be difficult to establish in general, i.e. to realise. But that's why the tolerance for corruption and all the corrupting phenomena must be zero, and these are my distinguished colleagues today pointed out several times. I am sure that this zero tolerance for corruption and corruption is one of the basic premises in the conduct and functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And that's why we're proud to be part of a government where it's imperative to fight an anomaly like this that can represent a cancer that when it metastasizes it destroys or destroys society. There you have recognized, Mr. Sikimiæ, in the correct way certain problems and how these problems should be addressed. I didn't point that out today, so I'm obliged to point it out now, when it comes to the judiciary. You pointed out the role of the Judicial Academy, you pointed out what involves the educational process of all those who through education, through projects of the Judicial Academy as well as in that other part, can be able to identify corruption on the one hand, and on the other hand respond adequately to it. And in that sense, that part of the report is acceptable. Not only acceptable, but absolutely accurate. We will continue to fight against all of this that we have pointed to today, and we are sure that we will achieve results on that path. I thank you once again and your report no doubt deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-12-0.u57966	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Monday, July 15, 2019, starting at 9.45 p.m. as the day for voting on agenda items Twenty-fiveth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. I thank all the MPs, Mr. Sikimic and his associates. I wish everyone a nice weekend and a good preparation for next week. Thank you and pleasant.
