ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-0.u64849	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of Members present in the hall, please insert your cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 146 MPs present in the hall. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in point 1 of the agenda. I put to the vote – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. A year, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – three abstentions – there is no. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendment of Miladin Sevarlic, which is the name of the bill. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – one against – two abstentions. No amendment accepted. I put on the vote by the amendment of Zoran Zivkovic, named Head I. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 1. Muamer Zukorlic and Jahje Fehratovic. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted for it. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, with the correction of MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: seven MPs voted in favour. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Milljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. No amendment accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 of Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted in favour. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Ljiljana Mihajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote: it was voted by three MPs. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3, with the correction, which was brought together by Muamer Zukorlic and Jahja Fehratovic. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. George Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. I'm putting the amendments to Article 3, with the correction, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. I put the amendment to vote, in the same text, on Article 6. Aleksandre Belačić and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter II to vote. Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 8, which they put together, George Komlenski and Bojan Bagica. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 8. Mom Colakovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 8. Hope Lazic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 8. Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. I put the amendments to Article 8. George Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. I put the amendments to the title of Head III, which was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 9, which have been submitted in the same text, MPs Dubravko Bojic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalizing vote: in -two. I'm putting the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Alexander Chabrai. Finalizing vote: for -one. I am putting the amendments to the article 10 that have been tabled, in the same text, MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalizing vote: for -one. No proposal accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 13, which they have submitted, in the same text, MPs Alexander Seselj and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to the article 17 that have been tabled, in the same text, MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, with a correction. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I am putting amendments on the table on Article 18, which they have submitted, in the same text, MPs Ljiljana Mihajlović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the article 19 that they submitted, in the same text, the MPs of Ruzica Nikolic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was tabled by the MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 29 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 31, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 32 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 33 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 34 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 36 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Nada Lazic. Finalising vote: in – two. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 41 which have been tabled, in the same text, by the MPs of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalising vote: for – one. I am putting the amendments to the article 43 that they submitted, in the same text, the MPs of Ruzica Nikolic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I am putting the amendments to article 43, which was tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 44 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments on the table of the 45th that have been tabled in the same text, MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I put the amendments to article 46 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 47 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 48th article, which they submitted, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radet and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I put the amendments to Article 49 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Since we have finished voting on the amendments, I would like to put the motion to the vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 150, against – one, with abstention – there are no, no votes – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 151 versus – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 by majority of the votes of all MPs. I now put to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2020, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 151 versus – no one, abstentioned – no one voted two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2020, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 151, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2020, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 151, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2020 Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for military insurance in general. I conclude the vote: for – 151, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Now we're moving on to several violations of the Rules of Procedure. I'm in session on November 22nd, at 10:00 and 45 minutes, she pointed to a breach of Article 104. In the meantime, I changed my mind. Zero votes, so no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on November 22nd at 10pm and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and find that the said Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on November 22nd at 11pm and 15 minutes, pointed to a breach of article 104. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one's voting. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on November 22nd at 11 pm and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(4). Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one voted. National MP Milorad Mircic, on November 22nd at 11 pm and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on November 22nd at 11pm and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one voted. National MP Verica Radeta, on 27 November at 12 o'clock and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 116. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one voted. National MP Verica Radeta, on 27 November at 13 pm and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 116. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one voted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on 27 November at 15 o'clock and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one voted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, on 27 November at 15 o'clock and 7 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you. The next session starts today at 10:00.
