ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52971	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 77 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Đorđe Milicevic and Marjana Marash. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of the Law on the Security of Traffic on the Roads. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: the Belief of Radet, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Ruzica Nikolic, Milorad Mircic, Sreto Peric, Nikola Savic and Dusica Stojkovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the opinion of the promoters on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52972	The amendments of the SRS to the proposal for this law are, in fact, our relationship to the irresponsible attitude of government towards Serbian citizens, in this case to farmers. When I say irresponsible relations, I mean both the congregation majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Nebojsa Stefanovic said 20 days ago that the government would propose these amendments to the laws that we are talking about today because the media were much attacked because they wanted tractors and tractor connections to be registered every year and, imagine, that law was passed last year and then they didn't know what condition our peasants and the roads they were driving their machines were in, which is the basic reason why their vehicles were broken, then Nebojsa Stefanovic forgot to put it on the agenda and we have then an amazing thing that the MP submitted this proposal. Of course, every MP has a right, but on Tuesday morning we received this bill so that it would be discussed on Wednesday morning and that we would now draw up this law and put these amendments at the very beginning of the session in order to respect the deadline for the law that you passed last year, or that part of the law actually does not apply. So, irresponsiblely, unseriously, as we listened to the Minister of Agriculture yesterday, when we were sitting here with ourselves, as a man tells people that the raspberries have no intention of helping them, because the state can't do it, how the law will be passed, but it doesn't matter, when the raspberries and plums pass, and then he's going to propose some law that will help them, and then, in just two years, he's going to solve the problem of the anti-building problem that exists in all Serbia, and then around -- the raspberries are guilty because they're small possessions because they've doubled the number of those who deal with ravines etc. So the government's relationship to the peasant is below each level and we're just through changes to this law we want to draw attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52973	Thank you very much. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52974	Thank you. As a legislator, I would like to comment on this amendment. There is no room to comment on the amendment because it is very modest and written and reasoned. In fact, this form of the amendment has only opened up the possibility for radicals to talk about something bad about the ruling majority at all costs, about Minister Stefanovic at all costs, because it is hard to listen and what the successes are and the results of Minister Stefanovic and the MUP and then let's take any opportunity. The country's attitude towards peasants, farmers, farmers, is just being pictured in this bill, where it was clear to us that it was impossible on the ground to insist on the application of this law, and we didn't want to close our eyes to the situation on the ground, and we wanted to agree on what reality is in Serbia, which is that farmers, farmers, farmers, people who own tractors, multiculturals, working machines, connected machines that are used by tractors remain permanent registration, because that is what reality is on the ground. Just like this, in the co-operation of MPs of the ruling majority and the MUP, or our members of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, in whose jurisdiction is this bill, we can be the service of citizens. This is the only way, and it is perfectly normal for the law to be corrected in parliament, to monitor law enforcement, to react immediately so that we can meet the citizens, in this case to farmers. Absolutely all the members of the Committee voted to refuse such an amendment, because I can't really accept any of these six amendments that the SRS has submitted, because they don't agree with reality at all, and I know, if they look the peasants in the eye, they shouldn't tell them the same thing, but it's very easy to talk here after the microphone. When you look a man in the field in the eyes, then you realize that this change that we have proposed is something that is fundamental and that is reality in the field. We need to look reality in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52975	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52976	It seems that Marija Obradovic was almost on some golf course, and she certainly wasn't on the field with the villagers. He says, "Our amendments are modest, our arguments are modest." And that immodest one here speaks, she, me, her law. This is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She's just, like, president of the board elected, but imagine how modest her knowledge is. Six members of the law are changing, one is not good to her, so she persuaded a fellow member of the parliamentary group to submit an amendment to change that. So much for her knowledge, for her breadth. You know the easiest thing is, what Maria Obradovic is saying is not an argument. The easiest thing to say is, you're modest, you're bad, you're monkeys, etc., everything that's her dictionary, and basically it shows that she doesn't even know what the job of a MP is, nor does she know what the government's jurisdiction is. She's following the deadlines? So if he's following deadlines, then he should know that this isn't the only law we've changed because of deadlines, but you don't know, your government doesn't know how to work. If they were serious and you were serious that you could teach them, given that every third month you change laws, then they would tell your ministers there, in every ministry you hire a lawyer who will only follow deadlines, because so often you change the laws so that those in the government don't arrive to escort them, and then we here have to break the Rules of Procedure. Of course, what does Marija Obradovic know about the Rules of Procedure, what does she even know about the work of the National Assembly? A woman walks around from time to time through this room, I guess it's the third or five times she's said anything at all and she's going to talk about the amendments to the SRS. (Alexander Markovic: Hello! ) (Vladimir Orlic: Vlado, intervene or we will.) You don't throw 'allo' with 'allo', pal. You can answer by amendment, so maybe you'll make an argument unlike Maria Obradovic, who...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52977	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Verica Radeta: Rules of Procedure. Take it easy, colleague Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic first reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52978	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Article 162 and Article 107 have been injured. Rules of Procedure. Here's Mr. Komlensky, alive and well in the O.R., who's the chairman of the board of directors who's under Article 162. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which I do not believe is at all this lady who proposes these amendments to the laws, as an exponent of the government, in this case of Heavenly Stefanovic, not what she remembered or the SNS. So you know if they were to think, right now they are watching Martinovic and Orlic when a member of the law enters into force, if that were the case, rather than the resolution ministry, i.e. Minister Stefanovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a short period of time, because on April 3rd, they did not have the opportunity, so this decision came to the committee responsible, whose chairman is the president of this law. It wouldn't be a dispute if she wasn't sassy and rude. And you know when, someone does, and they have a basic knowledge, then sometimes it can be cute, of course, if someone's not boastful, but when you don't know anything, you say... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52979	My colleague Jovanovic, I really cannot allow you to insult Maria Obradovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No, then insults us. I don't think it makes any sense, nor does it have any basis. It's not collegiate, it's not parliamentary. Please move on, but don't insult me, I won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52980	I don't know why you find it offensive when the lady spoke and said that our amendments were nothing, modest, such as that, because she's not competent to decide, but I did say again to the committee responsible in accordance with Article 162 in the assembly procedure, you didn't react. It is truly impossible for any argumentable controversy to lead with a person who does not understand reality and what we are promoting, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore our amendments, we also received them in five to 12, the bill, then and before the sitting itself and wrote these amendments, should always understand that it does not enter into force to amend certain provisions of the laws which were as harmful as this mandatory re-registration when it knocks down that time that the member should enter into force. Let him take care of the interests of the citizens, as the SRS does.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52981	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. ) In particular Article 162. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Article 107.) Article 107. I don't think I did, and I don't think that my colleague Obradovic insulted anyone or I've ever heard that she did it in general, knowing her. So I don't think she's doing it right now. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. You don't want to. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. And my Rules of Procedure? He can't! It really doesn't make sense! )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52982	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, because they asked us to turn this way and this way, those who have been very nervous since this morning, and there's no reason to be. There's no reason to be, it's one law that should be understood to everyone, right? It is proposed to provide assistance for 490,000 tractors, i.e. other working machines, to those citizens who own them. When we eliminate everything that is motive here for such stories being run by the amendment promoters, and the motive is like a million times so far personal animosity, right? The desire to search for someone they can't stand. They've done it a million times so far, here we are today on Maria Obradovic. But you remove your motivation, see what's suggested, see what you've suggested through the amendments. When underlining the line so very precisely, that only the essence is seen, Marija Obradovic suggested helping people, agricultural producers, and you said your amendments – should not be helped. Why? Because you are not satisfied with the government, because you are not satisfied with the minister, because you are not satisfied with some deadlines and because you are not satisfied with Maria Obradovic above all. What, who here understands or doesn't understand? Marija Obradovic, as a savingsistan MP and man, a lady who seriously deals with these things, understands that it is good to help farmers, that it is good for 490,000 cases, to find a solution that is beneficial to these people. You do not understand that you are sabotaging this idea, you do not understand that you are against something that every citizen in this country will welcome and that you are doing no harm to Mary Obradovic, nor to the ministry, nor to the minister, but only to yourself. If we talk about things that someone understands, or doesn't understand, we're going to adopt this, and this doesn't depend at all on the will or lack of the will of those people who have decided to create some chaos here today, to argue, to say all the worst and darkest things about any of us. We're going to do this and another sentence, Mr. Chairman, and we're going to be able to look into each other's eyes with these people like Mrs. Obradovic said. What you can and will be able to do when you come out tomorrow and say, "No, we wanted to make it harder for you because we are selfish and because we cannot stand SNS." That's a question for you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52983	Thank you. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52984	In the next two and a half minutes within the replica, I'll say the following. I don't know exactly what it means to "sabotage the idea", probably doesn't even know a colleague who used to say it a little while ago, and now the demagogues are trying to put us, the Serbian radicals, against the peasants. No, we're not. You're against peasants. You only passed a year ago where you asked the peasants to register tractors and connected machines every year. You brought it in a year ago and then you said it took you a year to realize it wasn't right. Why? Because the media started talking about it, because people started calling you. Says colleague Orlic – Marija Obradovic understands that. I don't know what? In the tractor? A motocultivator? What does she understand? In this law, it is obviously not this insult, Mr Marinkovic, but the fact, such as for Mary Obradovic, that our amendments are modest and reasonable. That's what she thinks and let her think, we don't mind. We're just looking for arguments, among other things, on what she said on Friday. It says – it has clearly proved that this year has not been enough time for our society to adapt to the new standards we insist on, etc. Who can adapt? Is she aware of what she said in this sentence? In order for society to adapt, in order for tractors to register every year, then Marija Obradovic, who understands that, and her authority, and your authority, should provide the roads, should provide normal communication to the villagers, not drive over the joints but can normally reach the field, that they can normally reach the property, that they can normally process their surfaces, and not that they do not have all that, and then we will only introduce a European standard, and we will not give them favourable credits so that they can buy tractors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52985	Thank you. It's been two minutes and 20 seconds. Marija Obradović, right on the line. Here you go. (Revealer Radeta: You have injured the Rules of Procedure. I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure while you were talking. Look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Give Maria Obradovic a chance to say something. (Verica Radeta: I give Maria Obradovic a chance? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52986	I will, during the debate on this bill in particular, suffer all the insults that are brought to my account, because the least I have the right today is here to be personally offended, because I am here in front of the Serbian Progressive Party. My name is the signator of this bill, but I speak on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party and certainly the Ministry of the Interior, with which we have co-operated and prepared this bill. I'll take it all the way to any curses. As long as the curses are directed at me, then I'll turn to someone else. Now let's get back to this law. Radical Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to the first member of this bill, and she tells you all the time about one completely different member of the law. So she's not so focused that she doesn't even talk about her amendment. But let's keep it all out of the way. Since our debate, which really can't help any farmer in Serbia, as much as I understand it, or you think I don't understand, it won't help. It will only help the adoption of this bill, i.e. the refusal of amendments to the SRS and the radical Verica Radeta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52987	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52988	Let's make a deal, Mr. Marinkovic, that from this moment on you respect article 27. I understand that you have a great need to court the advances, because your party won't be on their next election list, so maybe you will. But you made a mistake. It is not Maria Obradovic that factor. She jumps like this, because the other day, Vukic told her that she was no longer his vice president, the one where he made triage in the party. But, of course, it's their thing. Maria Obradovic says she speaks here in front of the SNS. I don't see SNS here. I see MPs, or I guess I see a party in the name of the word. But now we don't have time to teach her a language, she was just a speaker, she was reading what was already written to her, and then she couldn't make any mistakes. So, if Marija Obradovic, if any member of the Parliament says two and a half minutes per amendment, then it must also be possible in the replica, and in the injury of the Rules of Procedure. We're not advocating for a short period of time. On the contrary. If we were to ask ourselves, and if we were to bring this Rules of Procedure, there would be no limit to communication at all between MPs or MPs and representatives of the Government. We think there's supposed to be complete democracy here, that there's really a real debate, but you won't. Well, if you won't, then you can't practice on us, with Serbian radicals. I don't mind, give any of the advances seven minutes per amendment, we won't say a word. But in the replica of that same amendment, we're looking for seven minutes. That's all we ask of you. And I'm telling you, you see, I'm not sure there's anyone in the parliamentary group that you can end it through. Get out of this room a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52989	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you know for yourself that all the chairmans, starting with the president, colleagues Arsic, and me, are trying and giving everyone time and we've never had a problem for about 10, 20, 30 seconds. I don't think you can honor us. So, as far as democracy and inciting dialogue are concerned, I don't think it stands. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52990	The last intervention of the amendment's promoter seems to have made it quite clear to me what anyone here understands or doesn't understand. That was the main dilemma this morning. She made it perfectly clear to me that the amendment promoter does not seem to understand its amendments. That seems to be the key problem. So, the bill is to help agricultural producers, and the amendments are to repeal the proposal, to delete, not to help agricultural producers. And when the amendment promoter says -- we're not against helping these people, he doesn't understand his own amendment, he doesn't understand what he suggested. It's a little comical to comment that someone afterwards claims to know exactly what Alexander Vukic told whom in some personal conversation, and he doesn't know what he suggested, he doesn't know what the content of the amendment is. So, to comment, I won't. But, well-intentioned reasoning on my part, there is no such thing, ladies and gentlemen, nothing to do with the fact that Mrs. Obradovic has performed a journalist's profession with honor and integrity, as she is today safe when the MP is. Mrs. Obradović, all she had done in her life, worked with security, honor and honesty, and, as far as I know, she was not a member of the board of directors of Dragan Gilas at any time, nor the Supervisory Board of Dragan Djilas. Those who would like to talk about who did what, how safe, how honorable and how much for the benefit of the citizens, may wonder if there might be in that sweater of Dragan Gilas and their wool. Well, we can talk about history, but I don't think it's worth it. At the very end, the story of someone getting out of the O.R., I would say the opposite, a different proposal. I would tell the amendment's promoters to stay in the hall and still vote in favour of the bill that has been defined, as defined by Mrs Obradovic. This may show that they did not understand their amendments, but that they understood what they were doing today, and for history, to leave it for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52991	Thank you. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52992	I'm fascinated by this earlier comment, and I just called to say thank you to my colleague. However, I'm not sure that he knows exactly what he's saying and how much he has to do with what's on the agenda, but well, he's forgiven, he's young, he'll learn. To draw attention from what we Serbian radicals are talking about, and in such a bold and rude way, is inappropriate. Maybe you could've distracted him, because he said at least seven offensive expressions in the course of his two minutes and 30 seconds. But, well, it's an honor for everyone to say what he says. But what we want to point out, SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, yesterday Minister Nedimovic from this place, when he was talking to the main board of forwards, you were only sitting here yesterday and chatting with the Government, clearly and precisely, and still laughing like that all the time, I guess he thinks that you were just there, that it's not seen in the media, that he has no intention of helping the raspberries, that their matter and their problem of dealing with the raspberries, that he is thinking and that there will be some law, but in the course of the year or at the end of the year, until they pass both the raspberries and chers and everything, then he may pass some law if there is some pre-election campaign, and then he will propose the law. He specifically said that for two years the state will not yet be able to assist in anti-urban protection, and one day it will be on the button, on the sensors, on the sponsors, so what he said, but only in two years. What happens in two years, who knows? So SNS and the SNS government don't take care of the Serbian peasant and Serbian peasants know that. I know now that it will be in the replica, and for whom they vote, etc. It doesn't matter who they vote for, we respect everyone's voice, but the villagers know the way tractors drive, they know they don't have the credits to buy tractors, they know they don't have any conditions to sell their products, they know they're on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52993	Thank you. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52994	Serbian Progressive Party, right? The Serbian Progressive Party, our representatives in the Serbian government, our MPs, among them, of course, and the vice-president of our party's General Committee, Mrs. Obradovic, propose solutions to help farmers. So it's an answer to an attempt to interpret what the SNS is doing. The amendment promoter, on the other hand, says – seven times is offended, severely injured. Here, let's make an eight-way contribution. One more thing that I believe may touch them, I'm sorry if it causes some pain, but with this proposal, SNS helps all farmers, which includes, among other things, raspberries. It is not defined that, on the basis of a specific type of activity or field of work, anyone here is further involved, or additionally excluded. If it had anything to do with who these people vote for, we know. Those who comment don't have to believe it. But it doesn't matter who people in this country vote for, so it can only be said by someone who doesn't even hope for a census and who has come to terms with that fate. Who said that? Yeah, okay. Then it's all on the same page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52995	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52996	So no one said, no one from the SRS said it didn't matter who they voted for, we said we respected every vote. Of course, it's clear to us that when people vote they have the right to make mistakes, and then within 25% of what they voted, then by some mathematics they turn into 50 and something, they have the right to make a mistake. That's not the point. That's what we wanted to say. We're not just talking about votes, we're talking about honest concern for every segment of this society, even for peasants. We talk about it all the time, and we truly care about it. We have a agenda, but we are not Marija Obradovic, so we can't get past the Rules of Procedure our bill. We have a proposal on the agenda to encourage agriculture. We have this bill on the agenda. Why don't you vote on the agenda to discuss it? No, you don't care. You do not care, if you were interested in what you would do first then, gentlemen, you would ask for a solution or a shift from Heavenly Stefanovic. He said a year ago that peasants have to register tractors once a year. You voted for it. All of you. And, after a year, you find that it was a mistake. What about those who had to register in the meantime? They don't mention all the registrations on the same day. What are you going to do with these people? Will you pay them back? Let's say once, finally, when you're going to make these access routes to the atolls, when you're really going to make sure that the raspberries aren't the coolants who are your people. Would you like me to list now the freezers that are your officials? Would you like to list that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52997	Thank you, colleague Radeta?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52998	You know well that we know all this, and people in the field know it, and all the peasants who are tormented, and all the trouble you've put on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u52999	Thank you. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53000	I don't know if this heart's gonna break either. We have no intention of discussing whether to replace Nebojsa Stefanovic, because Nebojsa Stefanovic, you may have forgotten, is what one of you said a few minutes ago, is behind this proposal. Nebojsa Stefanovic is behind the proposal to assist agricultural producers through this bill. Either you don't understand anything, or you don't listen to each other, which is your business. What's what you're suggesting? So you don't agree with anything, you don't know why, and it doesn't matter. What do you suggest? Now you're suggesting that everyone find themselves in a situation that you're criticizing. You're saying someone had to register, and what do you suggest? Your proposal is, look at your amendment, now everyone needs to register, to be in that situation that we find unbearable. That doesn't make any sense. So, I have said and I will repeat, if the main problem is that the amendment promoter doesn't know what he suggested, it's not such a big problem, we have colleagues in the service that are helping in the work of the parliamentary group, they will print out in the number of copies you need, your amendments and what you have suggested to them and what you have explained in this regard. Look at that, you have enough time to vote to see what you've done wrong, so when you realize the essence of your mistake, I'm sure you won't make those mistakes just bigger and bigger. Is it a little clearer now? Does it help to treat citizens, who have something to do with whether censorship is expected or not? I hope I've helped you so much you'll start hoping for something when it comes to censorship. More than enough of me for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53001	Thank you. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53002	Okay, Orlic says we didn't understand anything, that we don't know anything, that we don't know what to suggest. Orlic says we're stupid. When he thinks so, then it certainly has a serious significance, but Orlic is rude, Orlic is arrogant, you allow him to violate the Rules of Procedure and insult the MPs and let him not worry about our censorship. We've never been involved in politics because of censorship and only because of the current political moment. We Serbian radicals know that ideology is not measured by censorship. Orlic doesn't know that. He thought he knew only three days, so he changed his mind, but it all had nothing to do with what the subject was. The theme is the concern of the current government of peasants. The topic is corruption within the freezers that are already beginning to plague the raspberries. The theme is that the government is only talking, and nothing works in the interest of the Serbian peasant. The theme is that a Serbian peasant cannot buy tractors and connected machines with certain subsidies. The theme is that you will not put the SRS proposal on the agenda, the Serbian peasant subsidy bill. The theme is that the Serbian peasant destroys his tractor by driving it along the jumbo roads, because the government, both municipal and republican, will do nothing about it. The theme is that the Minister of Agriculture here yesterday tells that he doesn't care about the problems that follow now that the purchase of raspberries begins. The theme is that his problem is that a lot of people deal with raspberries, which this year is twice the size of... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53003	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53004	Mr. Chairman, I wanted to tell you the purpose of supporting the quality of the discussion. They prepared our associates for the amendment that the MPs obviously did not read when they signed them, so feel free to direct them so they can get them at any time. That's one thing. Secondly, I wanted to tell you, and you feel free to move on, I'm not worried at all about the censorship of those who called earlier, at all, as I'm not worried about the question of life on Mars.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53005	I'm closing this circle of replicas. Please, 40 minutes... (The Faith of Radeta: only one sentence.) You said everything to your colleague Orlic. Forty minutes is a line between you and Dr. Orlic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as a farmer, I'm quite touched by concern. What I can agree on is that the village shares the fate of an abandoned, abandoned, decomposed meadow. It's a congested condition. There's nothing to be done overnight. The severity of the injury determines the treatment. Therapy is painful, reforms are painful. It's an operation that's not two teas and acetisal, but you have to cut deep. In doing so, you should have the equipment and you should have the money. You don't find the equipment or the money, the patient's out there, and the first thing you want to do is save his life. So, if by 2012, we lost 200,000 cows, if the tycoons bought 400,000 hectares of land for 50m euros or less than 300 euros per hectare, today for a one-year lease of one hectare is 220 euros the average price. They've always sold it for 100, 125 euros, according to the peasants. They sold sugars for three euros. They did not allow farmers like in Denmark, the Netherlands to become owners of processing facilities because all processing facilities came from agriculture. I asked Vlahovic in 2001 for all storage processing facilities to belong to farmers. This would prevent road strikes, roadblocks, etc. This would make farmers happy, so if they lost something in primary production, it would be returned to them in proportion to the quantity they would deliver to their processing facilities. Cooperative is the one that works in Western Europe. These unfortunates, a joint criminal enterprise, destroyed the cooperatives and cooperatives after the combinations. The cattle got pissed off, the workers fired, so they only deal with primary production. At this point, we have livestock and plant production that exceeds the needs of livestock for three times. Don't let God give us any sanctions, I don't know who we'd sell our cereal to, considering we don't have enough cattle to make meat. In doing so, we lose, for all grains of over three million tonnes, we get 700, 800m euros. If we turned that into livestock, living scales would be worth about two billion. Another billion pounds would have been produced, and since our slaughterhouse capacity works at 50%, we've found 30%, if we'd processed it all, not at the final stage, we'd have made four billion. We're losing three billion because this joint criminal enterprise, which is currently not there, which simply demoted agriculture, is the one that has been burdening social, economic, military pressures on our country in the 1990s. Instead of returning to agriculture, they took far more than the 1990s, and gave it to tycoons who smuggled oil, cigarettes, those 90s. To the winners of the war, the beneficiaries of the sanctions sold the country and the processing capacity of the Buddha why. They also sold them storage facilities, so what they didn't buy when the peasants drove their goods to steal from them on the scale, on the moisture, etc. That's what these unfortunate people did. That's why I look forward to this agricultural debate, I look forward to protecting agricultural producers. The incentives need to be even bigger. I look forward to the minister's confirmation yesterday that past these 44 billion dinars, which is 135% more than in 2012, we'll get another 1,500 tractors, which will have something to register, and in the next members I'll explain why this permanent registration is important. It's important in Article 1 to know who's driving what and it's easy to determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53007	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53008	Article 106 as long as I want as long as there are members of the Rules of Procedure, as long as you break the Rules of Procedure, we'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53009	Just tell me how I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53010	It's just amazing that I have to intervene. Although, I'm vice president, I could do this better than you. So instead of you interventions and saying that the MP has the right to intervene whenever he wants, you let someone out of there hysterics - as long as more. A woman accidentally stopped by the congregation today, and she's already going somewhere, walking around. As far as we're concerned. We won't even be making a problem that there are no proposing representatives. She's not in the right sense anyway. You didn't give me a line when I only prayed for one sentence, to tell my colleague Orlic when he said in his first address...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53011	Yes, but now you're replicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53012	I have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53013	It doesn't make sense, really. We have to stop this. I want to give you, show you where I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53014	I'm suggesting that I should have gotten a replica per article 106 because he...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53015	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53016	Oh, thank you. What the hell? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53017	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. The proposer and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Milija Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53018	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would have reported this amendment earlier, but I can't say a few things for more than 50 minutes. Since we are talking about problems in agriculture, I come from a community that is in a really difficult situation, where agricultural machinery, tractors, connected machines bought back 30.40 years, where these connected machines and tractors tomorrow that this law has remained until the end, that Mrs. Marija Obradovic has not submitted a new bill, to ensure that our agricultural producers do not register, or that they do not register their tractors every year, I think it is really right. I think in the coming period, we all have to give more time to our agriculture and our village. Otherwise, in the agricultural environment, our villages, our municipalities, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, undeveloped municipalities are very difficult to live with. Believe me, I expect that in the coming period we will have much more time to talk about problems in agriculture. Once again, I would like to thank Marija Obradovic for proposing this law, to ensure that our farmers can sleep more peacefully. From one mistake, the worst are two mistakes. So even though I voted in favour of the previous Transport Safety Act, we are now working out some things for our agricultural producers, helping our farmers. Thank you, Maria, and I think we should all be there to support our agriculture, our agricultural producers, our people who are 40 years old tractors, 45 years old. Agricultural machinery is old, and there is also a great opportunity in the subsidy law, where the agriculture minister gave the opportunity through stimulation to restore the mechanism for buying new tractors, where Mr. Risticevic asked Mr. Nedimovic yesterday, where he confirmed that 1,500 new tractors would have the opportunity to secure themselves through the budget now in the coming period. And I as a folk MP representing the United Peasant Party, a farmer man I have a tractor who bought my father in the '80s. It's really something that's still being used with us. I therefore call on all colleagues to support my colleague Maria Obradovic's proposal that what she wrote in the Bill's proposal be that in the coming period our agricultural producers, people living in the country, people living in undeveloped mountain-mounted areas, who have old machines, old tractors, that they do not have to register every year, but as it says in the law. On the other hand, I think, and we all need to put on a bigger accent. Thank you again, Maria, for the bill of this law. That may have been what I was supposed to do, but always with us farmers, the host was our wife's first-in-command. Thank you again for proposing this law. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53019	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53020	I almost gave up after this heart-to-heart discussion, but I still have to tell you that you have an obligation to respect a member of the 27th Vice President. Don't do that. You couldn't even stop me from saying that Orlic said he wouldn't answer again, so he answered. As if you felt that I was going to say that it reminds you of what one of them has been saying for six years – in two years you will be better off. That's what he tells the villagers. So, a question for you in accordance with Article 27. - have you decided to work in the ruling circle today as you spoke to ministers yesterday or do you want the MPs of the SRS to participate in the work of the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53021	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Of course we will and it's normal and you've had your chance, and I just said that 40 minutes have lasted between you and Orlic and Maria Obradović. It's no problem for two hours to last, absolutely, but the debate began to repeat itself, you simply couldn't agree, which is normal, so don't worry about anything. We won't work in any circles. You will have the opportunity of course for everything that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to discuss as much as you want. (The Faith of Radeta: Thank you, you are very generous. Thank you, too. (The Faith of Radeta: You did not ask me if I wanted the Assembly to plead.) Do you want to? (No) Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53022	This article refers to the amendment of an existing member where the need to print the number of engines to identify a vehicle is needed in addition to the number of boxes. It really wouldn't be a dispute if there weren't any other issues. Here in the hall I see Mr. Borkovic is present, so someone who would, by the nature of his work, have to know what the correctness of the vehicle is. It is unfortunate that in Serbia today, the consumer car market is unregulated because it is in the state's interest only that through the customs declaration and through the paperwork obtained when importing a huge number, a very large number of cars with fake mileage, to take the registration money to drive with such cars along the roads, is that right Mr. Borkovic, many of them in Serbia, which are enough for your racing relays. Now I do not understand at all the need to potentiate something that is more or less undeniable and not the potential for the state to stand at the end of such a mobster for security on Serbia's roads. Is it normal for you, Mr Marinkovic and the MPs present, that this automafia is doing all this in the obvious and in the state that is a silent observer? Cars imported into Serbia, and I remind you that last year for 400m euros, about 130,000 from the EU, do not go through the procedure as you think, but those people are naive, usually cars of up to 3,000 euros, that we do not lie, which are most present on the roads of Serbia, with the euro 3 engine, go to the auto-market, everything is supposed to be right, here is the number of boxes, a service book written on the border with Hungary for about 10 euros, so everyone can put whatever they want there. And by the number of the shassi, when that man comes and sees or someone helps him find out, you can see when that car was manufactured, bought, and how far it's gone, because there's a record of some cars, in some car houses, up to some years of age. Then a man thinks, a car I don't know which in 2003, 2004, that he crossed 157,000, usually some figures are 157,000 162,000, etc. So the problem is you won't save people. People want to buy used cars, but you let the mob deal with fraud, cheat on Serbian citizens, and then abnormally expensively charge them for both registration and technical inspection that you increased four times, 400%.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53023	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53024	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Road Traffic Safety Act is definitely needed and we need a new, completely new law, because these proposed changes and additions only involve those who use agricultural machines. However, it is only one of the categories of population that needs to be helped, and that is only one aspect of this law. What is necessary to do, when it comes to road safety, is to reduce the risk of traffic, and you obviously didn't take much care of it at this point, or you didn't think about it when you proposed these changes that concern only the extension of different deadlines. As the priority is traffic safety, I'll remind you of an accident that took place at a railway crossing when the train and bus crashed and 24 people were injured on that occasion. This is just one of the accidents that happens relatively often, which is why a number of logical questions are asked which should be addressed by this law, which is how to prevent all of this and whether all these spring crossings should have a ramp and why the ramps are not mandatory at all spring crossings, as well as a series of other issues. However, at this point in time, you were not engaged in this, but in different deadlines, and when it comes to deadlines, I must point out that the position of the SRS is inappropriate to discuss this proposal in such a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53025	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Olena Papuga, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53026	Thank you, Chairman. I'm using the MP's time group. In 2011, the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina launched an action called "Stop Annual Tractor Registration". The action lasted from April 2011 to 8 December 2011. At that time, in 200 seats, not only of the Vojvodina, but also of Serbia, perhaps more of the places, we collected 30,000 signatures that were handed over in December to the then ministry, or ministers who were traffic-resistant. That action has succeeded and changed the law. Since 2011, an annual tractor registration has been stopped since December. So LSV will support these today's amendments to the Traffic Act, because long ago, nine years ago, we showed that farmers need help. Every year, the registration of tractors and their agricultural machines makes their lives difficult, tractors are not a luxury for farmers, but is their working machine that earns not only their own existence, but also now shows that agriculture is the only one creating a surplus, or full budget of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I say that LSV will support these changes that aren't new, because we've collected 30,000 signatures for that long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53027	Thank you, colleague Papuga. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53028	The Serbian Radical Party submits amendments for justified reasons. Because we feel it is unsatisfactory to discuss whether it has been enough a year since the adoption of the Road Safety Act to provide for such opportunities, the 2009 Law on Permanent Registrations, which had an occasional character and technical conditions of preparation for the implementation of this law, was adopted. It is quite enough and a reasonable period of a year and we here attend changes which, in our opinion, Serbian radicals, in the explanation of the promoters, are not quite suitable for the reason that discrimination is being made here. This is about making it possible for peasants to use agricultural machinery, connections and everything they use, but it is said that the technical examination of the permanent character, i.e. the technical examination, is valid until the owner changes or changes in the place of the owner's residence. I can't believe that the amendment and supplemental promoter couldn't understand that there was a danger in this provision, because if a technical review is done once, it is valid as long as the owner uses that machine, there's no need to go to re-examination or periodic technical examinations. Perhaps it would be better, for the sake of general security, that is to say, in the first place of every traffic safety law, for the safety of certain benefits, or to subsidise technical checks periodically, every year, or every two years, and tractors, connected machines and all that peasants use. We know that during the agricultural season the number of accidents increases, not a small number is caused by failures in the technical shortages of agricultural machines. We agree that the permit, or registration, does not have to be performed annually or periodically, but that it is permanent, but here is something that is driven by some logic, primarily the security of citizens, not exactly respected. In economic logic, it is, it came out to those who use agricultural machines, not to use them for a year in continuity, but to use one specific period, for a maximum of three to four months, when all of this would be collected in the use of agricultural machines. But you have why I made an observation in front of the SRS that I am unserious that behind such a proposal, Minister Stefanovic has stood entirely. Because Nebojsa Stefanovic, among other things, worked on the topic -- the local self-government city of Belgrade. Why is the use of alternative means of transport being accelerated in urban areas, such as Belgrade? Well, to make it cheap, to sort of protect the city's budget, because huge funds are being allocated to public transport. If, under the old 2009 law, the possibility of using mopeds, motorcycles in transport, especially in urban areas, is left to meet and see the economic factor in the urban environment. This is our remark, specifically mine, completely misread. It's interpreted as being here, simply personally scarred against the SRS, because it belonged to the DS, it wants to honor that we have something against those who were in the SRS. No, we're glad, we're glad when they succeed, we're glad when they achieve their political goals. Everyone has the right to change their political definition, everyone has the right to change the political party. We don't mind, but we're sorry that some have reached out to the mandates of the SRS. To be clear, we have nothing against it personally, and I have led Minister Stefanovic, because I say again, his doctoral or master's work refers to the functioning of the local self-government, specifically the city of Belgrade. Maybe that's why we intervened, maybe we should have left that provision that was an integral part of this article under the old 2009 law. As for the amendment I personally submitted, that's a technical question. These temporary permits are valid until the technical conditions are secured so they can be issued, so-called. It's been a whole year enough to get all the equipment for this, no need to do it twice, minor one, and the same job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53029	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53030	Mr. Chairman, before I explain the amendment on behalf of the SRS, I must make my personal point. I really like this Maria law. I thought it was on the agenda, my colleague mentioned so many times that I think it's the Maria law. But what else is there to support this law on Mary? This Maria, in particular Marija Obradovic, wants so much to help the citizens of Serbia, so she tried through the JUL, via the DS, and made an assessment that the SNS will be in power and come to help. Tomorrow, when someone else is, she'll be helping Serbian citizens with such a heartful thing. Now, let's get back to this amendment. Orlic did not understand why the SRS submitted amendments. He submits amendments for you to understand, I will not replicate to you, nor will I ask the Rules of Procedure to speak, he endures to tell you that you are not hasty, but when you have to, and you want to propose some bill to think about him sooner. Look at one of the laws that will be on the agenda, you explain this through both the table and the narrative, as well as why you bring these laws to fit EU regulations. Did it take a year to see the situation that Serbian citizens, the owners of agricultural machines, above all tractors, would not respond, that they could not fit in, but they began to resent, to be against such draft laws. Soon elections are expected to save what can be saved, make them a promise to help them. You remember that Minister Stefanovic, if I am not mistaken, suggested that all vehicles, passenger vehicles over the age of 15, would be required to go for a technical examination twice a year and register. When a large number of car owners appeared, they were said not to, as we wish to meet the citizens of Serbia. And here you knew these test driver's licenses, the B-category owners, so to speak, that there are patterns, that if they were put out of use, it would go on the budget burden of the Ministry of the Interior. Personally, I don't think public procurement has been harmonised here when it comes to some official forms and real needs. If you knew a year ago that this law would come into force, or some of its provisions on 3 April 2019, then you had to imitate it all. That is why we, colleague Orlic, are submitting these amendments to draw your attention to the rationality of the proposal and the adoption of certain legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53031	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53032	There's no dilemma as to why these amendments are being submitted. We understand each other very well from the very beginning, because of the need for the promoter to speak the ugliest things they can think of about Mrs. Obradovic. That's completely clear to me. But it's wrong, I told you right from the start, it's wrong. Two things that concern a slightly more serious topic, i.e. the results provided by the Serbian government supported by the SNS and in which we have representatives among ministers, among other things, there is, of course, Mr Stefanovic, who is also behind the proposal. That's what the promoters themselves know very well, they haven't forgotten for 30 minutes of debate. What does it look like for agriculture? I just looked a little bit at what's most powerful than the topics from the last year or two, not to go deeper into history, "Helping farmers for tractors half price", an excellent project, you know, was mentioned in this National Assembly, those bought by Vuk Jeremic themselves participated in the project, benefited from it, which of course they don't mind still talking about what they were paid for. But a well-known topic, so many agricultural producers have just made it possible for our government and our ministers to provide this kind of support, or help, the creation of new cooperatives, the work on the new irrigation system for the first time in 35 years, an important topic you will agree on, a valuable result, aid to young farmers, hundreds of demands have already arrived, have been successfully processed, and this implies state support up to 75% of the value of starting new activities in the area of agriculture is not a small thing. The European aspect you mentioned, of course, concerns IPARD funds. The total value and what is provided directly by the state of Serbia, but also by the money that we have made available from European funds is a phenomenal 500m euros, so the total level of investment. For Serbia's agriculture, it's valuable, and that's what anyone who's well-intentioned will tell you. A lab to determine the quality of milk, the way we protected our land when it came to the possibility of being bought by strangers, so we protected it. That's all good stuff. Of course, the gentleman mentioned the question of alternative power sources in urban areas. Good news for both you and the citizens of Serbia, we made it possible for the Chinese partner to come... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53033	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Vladimir Orlic: I responded by amendment. ) Two and a half minutes, please report again, according to the amendment. Highlight it for me next time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53034	So, according to the amendment, I answered. Since there was interest in an alternative power source in urban areas, we found good talkers in the Chinese partner in "Icarbus". For both you and the citizens of Serbia, great news will be produced in the Icarbus. Also, it's a phenomenal thing, so something that a well-intentioned man can only say hello, it's about the results of Alexander Vukic's policy, the SNS, the politics in which the full heart and our MPs participate, as much as anyone loves or doesn't love someone personal among us here. Of course, all this has nothing to do with it, and with this ending, that you do not worry about the management of time, is it said, with the fact that Mrs Obradovic has never changed her mind, she has never changed her election against membership on the boards of directors and supervisory boards of Dragan Djilas. Those who would like to deal with this issue of candace are. And the last thing, that, with all the good will and the desire to understand on my part, has not yet convinced me of the existence of life on Mars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53035	Thank you, colleague Orlic, for helping me be more effective. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic, right to replication, and Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53036	Thank you. I want to respond to a concrete statement by my colleague, Sreta Peric, who made several false statements about me personally, even though I said in the beginning that I would not react to the insults that I was told today. All six SRS MPs have repeatedly insulted me in a very harsh way with many lies and we will put that aside. I just want, to inform the public, to say that I have never, except in the SNS, been a member of any political organization, not a group of citizens, and I would like to say that if someone has evidence other than what I'm saying to bring it out once. It's the easiest thing to say and just stick to someone's label. I don't condemn people who've changed political pauses and their opinions, but I find it ugly to say things about me that aren't true, especially when you're so old that they won't let you tell the truth, it's just not polite. I beg you, this is a replica, but I'm just asking you to stick to these amendments only. No one but one colleague who submitted the amendment spoke correctly about his amendment, everyone else is an excellent spit machine, it is an honor to them, seen by citizens and voters. That's why they have a rating like this. One more thing, I'm doing media and public opinion research, ratings, and thank you for this today. Repeat my name many times because it's very good for the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53037	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53038	Earlier in one of the reports, you said that you had never heard that Marija Obradovic said something bad about the MPs of the SRS. It was a clear insinuation when I said that she, among other things, said we were monkeys, so then you weren't perhaps on that board, so you didn't hear it yourself. But I guess now you've heard her say that we're a spit machine and it's really amazing that the MP is allowed to say that. That she has a problem with her political past, that's her business. Bringing out the truth, bringing out facts is neither spit nor insult. You know, someone has to have the dignity to break his dignity. Someone has to have the honor of hurting his honor. So someone in politics has to be aware of the fact that they have to listen to the truth about themselves. Now, whoever has a problem with their own truth, we can't help him here. But to tell one of the MPs that it's a spit machine and that you're not responding to it is really amazing. I repeat again, I understand your personal relationship with them, but believe me, Marija Obradovic is not an address that can help you on your future list of forwarders. It flies in the first reconstruction of advanced personnel, Vukic said a few days ago. You are looking for someone else, and I ask you to protect us from these, indeed, is not an insult to any of us individually, whom Marija Obradovic can insult, but simply not appropriate to the National Assembly. You know, you just said you were gonna let the MPs of the SRS take part in the work, and then somebody says we're a spit machine and what? You expect us not to react. We can't, you know, we're living people, temperamentary, we're Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53039	Thank you. Of course, it would be most fitting for me if you didn't give each other such words, so I invite both you and your colleagues from the SNS and everyone else to treat each other with respect, as it does to a high home. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote, fellow Radeta? No, I don't. Thank you. Sreto Peric has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53040	We have no reason at all, besides so many arguments, especially when it comes to this bill and everyone else, because we are seriously preparing for these discussions, to insult anyone and at least Mary Obradovic. I said I liked this law. She didn't seem to understand me very well, and I'm not known in public at all as someone who insults anyone. She didn't understand me. I highlighted here her enormous desire to help the citizens of Serbia, so through the parties, I did not claim that she was a member of those parties. Mrs. Obradovic, as far as I know, you must be a member of the SNS alone. But through some parties before that you wanted to help, and that's perfectly legitimate. I admire you for that. You've really worked here quite correctly. Mr. Orlic, I have told you that I will not answer the line, so politicians have no need at all to make that feeling of hate or love especially affirmative. This is kind of one serious job, and we can't go down to the level of hate or any excessive love or anything other than the argument that we're bringing out and that we're arguing here. Do you know, you've now wanted to affirm something and this will be a certain relief for the citizens of Serbia who own some agricultural machinery, and already Mrs. Verica Radeta has said what problems Serbian citizens, or owners of these agricultural machines, are facing. One more thing, I believe that there is a fellow Matic, however, Koceljeva is a small plain-based place, so there are no such terrible and tragic consequences when it comes to the management of agricultural machines. Do you even know how tragic there are at the annual level, even with the deaths of people who lose their lives on those agricultural machines or don't give God their grandkids or their children or anything like that? Are we creating preconditions for this improvement to the citizens of Serbia? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53041	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53042	Not according to the amendment, but you gave me the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53043	I don't really have anything to give you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53044	When Mr. Orlic came up with a very interesting subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53045	He didn't mention you at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53046	No, he came up with a very interesting subject and not only a subject but he showed that we Serbian radicals can particularly discuss with people who were in our ranks perfectly normal and that there is no animosity towards personality or what the person says. It's a good idea, introducing a bus to an electric drive, but every urban larger environment, Mr. Orlic, in the world is trying to get as many cars out as possible, the personal means of transport used by citizens, to introduce something that's much cheaper, which is less polluting. This is as one of the solutions to reduce environmental pollution, air in Belgrade as metropolis. We both have a problem in Nis and Novi Sad and other major cities when it comes to urban traffic. In addition to this, Mr. Orlic, you have to agree, you have to talk, you have to take care of the economic side, you have to cut the costs of the city's budget that stands out for that public transport. Of course, modern modernized transport brings good to everyone, but as few buses as possible are used from the budget. That's the logic that's being guided, anyway read the work of Minister Stefanovic, so you'll see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53047	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53048	Excellent interest in the right topics. How can city transport be helped, for example, in Belgrade? The Serbian Progressive Party has spoken and I think very clearly with concrete plans and clear ideas is a member. We talked so much about the announced subway project that there was finally a clear will to be realized and we talked about what that subway project would look like when it was realized. So, now we're talking about two lines about one that will connect the southern entrance to the city, from Makish across Ban's Hill to the city center, we've been resented by those great geniuses who know everything, but who they couldn't do anything, you know, but who I mean, that association headed by Gilas, Jeremic and other yellow thieves, today strengthened by the fascist Obradovic, that they don't agree with it, because they're against "Biorad on the Water", as well as any other major infrastructure project. But the citizens understood it well and gave support to the project as well. So, the line that goes further to the northern part of the city and should cross right there in the new second centre of Belgrade with one linking the Novo-Belgrade Earth side with the Star and the belt that is extending further. Crossed by Beovoza lines, a very clear perspective of the city traffic organization that he's working on, then the team, that team of people who are at the head of our capital today. So, clear policy, a policy of capable people, a policy of results, a policy facing the future. If we're talking about a clean ecological aspect, it's not a dispute. Here, one of the interesting topics of these days, concerns precisely those famous gondolas, that is, the cableway as anyone who likes to call it a very important aspect, for example, this way of transport is this ecological aspect, also a modern approach, a modern reference to the needs of the city and how we can make it more beautiful and more attractive, so if you want and cleaner. And these are things that we clearly say, and these are things that citizens understand clearly. What we can do on our part to help others who possibly don't understand things, so that's, say, what we're doing today, and I think it was worth it. Here, Mr. Peric will now uphold our law. The rest of you will, if you will, do your best, do a good job, and we are not sorry that we, as a parliamentary group, worked hard to help our colleagues. A colleague should be helped.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53049	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine is a logical trail of the previous amendments the SRS submitted to this law. In fact, we all of our amendments express our view that it is inappropriate in such a short time, that such an important law is on the agenda, although you have had a year to fix these things, and if we warned you a year ago that what you were doing back then was wrong about this law, but finally, you saw that we were right. Now, you're trying this way, not only to correct this law, but also to collect certain points from our farmers, and it's likely to pass with some. But this is not the only way to help our farmers. This government has a great deal of ways and a great deal of opportunities to meet our farmers, and above all, guaranteed the price of buying raspberries, blackberries, cherry, and other agricultural products. Since this government, it is almost never known what this price will be and that our farmers are regularly at a loss when it comes to these products. To go back to the bill. When I saw the procedure of our proposal for this law, I thought it was about one other thing. In fact, this law has other illogicalities and consistency, and the SRS has put in the process of amending and supplementing this law, but according to one thing entirely different. You'll see when it comes to the agenda. It is only proof that no one has dealt with this law, but above all, this was the goal of gathering certain political points for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53051	According to the amendment, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53052	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who founded another faraway in 1988, I want to thank today all those who helped solve at least one problem technically. That problem is the tractor registration. We're grateful that we won't have to register tractors every year, but as responsible people, as state-of-the-art, we're obliged to respect the law, at least in that part to make sure that these machines are technically correct, how much our material possibilities allow. I'm sorry today that Dragoljub Micunovic is not here. He was an old associate of my party, not just the service, but my party. I am sorry that today is not Gordana Comic, that they have avoided this parliamentary debate. Gordana Komic, because she comes from the AP Vojvodina, where she has the most tractor machinery. They boycotted this parliamentary debate. Farmers need to know that they are not to be spent on votes. I cannot believe that Dragoljub Micunovic, that Gordana Komic, that they have agreed to debt slavery with Gilas, is that their party be the pendant of Dragan Djilas. I can't believe they let the party march with Bosca Ljotic, and he's wearing a motor saw, even though I know they've cut 500 platans nearby. He probably forgot that he had already cut those canvass, so he stopped by RTS on the way to cut off what could be cut. I can't believe the old tried-out parliamentary fighters boycotted this topic. I can believe that they don't like the constitution they've brought, that they don't like the election laws they've passed, that they don't like the RTS personnel they put on, that they don't like the Rules of Procedure that they've made, but it's not our fault, that they avoid parliamentary debate, especially one that's very sensitive to the village and peasants. The village's getting old. When you go down the road, sometimes you see a peasant on a tractor without knowing who's older, whether a peasant or a tractor. Other peasants who are often on the minimum pensions of 11,000 dinars, many of them due to PIO insurance have no pensions at all, but when they leave today for fuel, and we now have 20 dinars per litre, at 60 liters per hectare, but only those registered. Many do not register agricultural holdings because they have aged and because it is difficult for them. It is very important to keep at least the other peasants, especially in small areas, along security-sensitive areas, especially in small areas, along borders and administrative lines, because they can take care of the forest, the game, the protection of the environment, to see who's walking around, who's crossing the border, etc. We just helped them with this today. Two waters from our villages. One road leads to the cities, and few come back. It's easier to suffer after the village than to suffer in the country. The second time he leads the one into the world. None of them are coming back. We need to think in the future that we are adjusting agricultural policy, not only with a common European agricultural policy, but also with the situation on our ground, as well as in Europe. To reward these small agricultural holdings, which do not want to deal with commercials, with a flat rate, at least a few tens of thousands of dinars, to provide them with and thus help those old people who can't even get to the city, register agricultural holdings, that is, to meet after that all the conditions of the seed structure, etc. And finally, to thank you on behalf of the other peasants for the mechanism achieved which will not have to register machines every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53053	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the fifth item of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I set Friday 29 March 2019 starting at 11.50 a.m. as a day for voting on the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on road safety. After the vote, we continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53054	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda point, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quarum for Labour exist if most of the total number of MPs attend the session, which, of course, you know. I ask the MPs to insert our cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Just to tell some MPs they were present in the O.R. but they didn't insert the card. Have them pay attention before the vote. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act on the roads in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135 MPs, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted – three. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. I'm putting her motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic is a member of the 2nd Law. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Parliament's 3rd, Ms. Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Ambassador Milorad Mircic, to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. It finds that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Members of Parliament Sreta Perić, to Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic, to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for - 136 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted for three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act on the road in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. I'd like to ask Minister Loncar, whom I saw outside the O.R., to enter the O.R. and proceed with the amendments to the bill on health insurance. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Minister of Health Dr Zlatibor Lončar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Assistant Minister of Health at the Health Sector of the Health Affairs, Deputy Assistant Minister of Health, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Health, Independent Councilor at the Ministry of Health Dr Biljana Stanojević and Zlata Žizic, Coordinator at the Health Ministry, State Officers at the Ministry, and that of Mirjana Veljković, Tatjana Stamatović, Nikola Pandrc and Marko Pavlovic. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Does the Verse of Radeta want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53055	Yeah, we've intervened with the amendment to multiple members with, clearly, the intention of fixing the text of the law. The fact that the minister has accepted a number of amendments tells us that we truly wanted to help, as far as possible, bring this area of health into order, because it is clear to all of us that there are still a lot of problems in the field of health, that what is in the law and what we have heard in the explanation of the minister is not always close to what is on the ground. We also want through amendments, and through this debate to draw attention to both the Minister and the Minister's associates that, as far as possible, the state of health, particularly those famous waiting lists, problems in the appointment of medical examinations. There's a specific review, it may not be very close to this amendment, but you didn't quite explain why you didn't accept the amendment. You said your solution was more precise, and our amendment essentially doesn't change the proposal. It's true that it doesn't shrink essentially, but it's not your solution that's more accurate. There can be no more precise explanation in one word than there is in another word. So now I'm going to tell you two specific problems and ask, Minister, to see with your associates, speak absolute truths from the field, and see what can change there. When it comes to the appointment of medical examinations by telephone, nurses, health officials call patients when they are due to, when they have scheduled the appointment, how the procedure is already going, but there is one problem. They can only invite patients to fixed phone numbers. They say they're not allowed to use cell phones. Here, now I'm talking about a case from New Belgrade's DZ. So absolutely right. You know, the problem is if someone calls, and mostly it's a morning shift of nurses and they call in the afternoon people and, of course, they're not gonna find anyone next to a fixed phone, because it's not about the difficult patients who have to lie down, so they can answer the phone and it's just a practical problem that we hope you'll solve and check in other health homes. We also understand the costs of using mobile phones, possible abuses, etc., but simply, everything should be subject to the patient, and you within your organization see how you will solve it. That's one particular example. Second case. We here have a letter with 196 signatures with a request sent to the director of the medical center in Zajecar and the health administration. It is the villages of Halovo, Gradskovo, Velika Jasenovac, Mali Jasenovac and Šipikovo. They're asking for a nurse to return to the hospital in Shipik. They say that 80% of the locals use this infirmary's services, that it's mostly nursing homes and that they simply can't travel to Zajecar to get an injection. That's their problem, among other things. There worked Daniela Todorovic Trujkić, a nurse. They're even specifically asking for that nurse back, and the problem is they don't have a nurse at all. So, the Director of Health in Zajecar has this letter and I ask you, Minister, also to see with your associates whether these villages and those older people in those villages can be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53056	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53057	I think this is extremely important for everyone to know. We don't have any problem calling patients, but it depends on what number the patients give. It's up to them what number they're gonna give. It's not about saving or not being able to call. Our headquarters are located in Telekom, so there's no problem in calling any cell phones or anything. We can't call someone on their cell phone if they leave a fixed one. Therefore, I urge all citizens to leave that phone on which they will answer. As for that second example, the nurse will be returned. Now we're building a new organization. I'm just asking people to understand one thing. We have hospitals at our health homes in the villages, and as you all know, there's a growing number of people in the villages, and we're going to have our team stay in the village, spend the whole working day, have one or two patients, and the team in the health home falls off their feet from work and has dozens of patients. So that's the essence of the story, and for that reason we've made a new intersection of the state of the village, what the structure of the population is, and we're making a new schedule where they're going to have not only a nurse, where there is a doctor and we're still making a schedule where if we estimate that they come two or three times a week and a doctor and a nurse in that infirmary to do their work, to examine people, to do the controls, and to do everything they need to do. What we want to introduce more recently is that we want to go in with moving pharmacies that will go from village to village, minority, every day, because we think it's much cheaper for us and that we have this one pharmacy for more villages that can leave every day or every other day, that people don't get bullied and that they take the therapy that we need, because now we have this recipe and we know exactly who they need. In any case, they will have some other therapy that they will be able to take, which they need for them or for one of the family members. So that's what we're working on and what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53058	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53059	Very short. Of course, what we've heard is good, and the people of these villages will rejoice in Zajecar. Of course, there are good solutions here and patronage sisters, this as a proposal, which, when it comes to therapy and injection, can't wait to skip the day, but if people knew what time and how many hours a nurse was coming, they'd try to get into the infirmary. As far as the phone is concerned, this is very reliable information. A nurse who receives patients makes that list, etc. she said very specifically, maybe it's just this health care issue, that they can't take mobile phone numbers because they can only call fixed ones and insist that the patient leave them a fixed phone number. Here, let your associates check it out, we don't really want to cause any problems, maybe it's some kind of misunderstanding to clear up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53060	Thank you, colleague Radeta. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Professor Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the current Health Insurance Act dates back to 2005 and many amendments and additions to this law have been made since then, which speaks of the inconclusiveness of proposings who have been being replaced in the meantime. One who intends to improve the health system in Serbia, and the government is moved to do so, must have a serious, thorough and comprehensive concept and strategy, not a patch by piece, and thus wastes valuable time, and we all know how much time is a valuable factor in this area. Otherwise, the government has the view that the laws adopted leave a lot of time for sublaws, which is very impractical and affecting the resolution of the situation, makes it impossible for the system to play, to revive, produce harmful consequences in practice, a matter of vacuum state in which it wanders, so that it turns out that all these laws are laws with a delayed fact. What the SRS resents the promoter is that we believe that this bill does not create an assumption of better functioning of the health system. The question remains without a reliable answer, does the scope of existing mandatory health insurance rights extend in line with real opportunities and how much will the new law really improve the overall health system in Serbia and will the new healthcare system reduce waiting lists in hospitals and give citizens hope for better and better treatment?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53062	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53063	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the government's position is not to accept this amendment satisfactorily. Why? There is no ideal legal act in the world, so I think that the laws that were passed in the previous period, especially in the area of health care, are indeed in place and that our Government of the Republic of Serbia, our Minister of Health and our President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, are trying to regulate all those areas that have been destroyed for years. You know how much we had to change in the past. We wouldn't have had doctors of certain specialities in the field of health if it hadn't been for the last few years. As far as this law is concerned, isn't it enough to improve the position of parents who are now going to have 100% sick instead of the current 65%? You know for a fact that the Dossow Yellow Authority only fought for its staff and its ministers, so the health minister for a routine operation seems to be a stone in a gallstone bag, going abroad. He didn't believe in his colleagues. We believe in the health of the Republic of Serbia, we believe in what our government is doing and we will support this law as it has been arranged so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53064	Thank you, colleague Barisic. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here are my colleagues, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53065	In fact, the article of the 10th has lined up the concepts used in this bill and later in the law and attitude of the SRS, our parliamentary group, is that this is completely unnecessary, that this means nothing essentially in terms of solving the problems that are the subject of this Bill's proposal, and we are each time intervening this law to such members. You say that you do not accept the amendment for the reason why the proposed solution is in line with the unique methodological rules for making the rules. It certainly is, but it is not those unique methodological rules of the Holy Scriptures, and we certainly think that it should be changed in general, not only in this law, but in the same way. Now, of course, I'm using this amendment again for one particular question, Minister, first of all. I assume, Minister, you know that children from Republika Srpska, children are treated with cancer in hospitals in Belgrade and that there is an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and that these costs are borne by their health insurance. Of course, it's no problem, on the contrary, we think it should, that those children should be treated as much as our children from here, but there is one problem. Parents when children come to be treated in Belgrade and let them go home, and then they have to come back for treatment, therapy, or whatever it is, then they have to leave an advance that is a serious sum of money. It counts in thousands of euros. That advance, truth be told, comes back when the cure is over, but we don't think that's good. Still, those people have to find that money somewhere, so I don't know how they get to them. We think that if we have normal relations, and we have to deal with Republika Srpska, where they are not good enough, they should be promoted to the maximum. The position of the SRS is that Republika Srpska is already Serbia, only formally so should it be, and that is why we want these children to be equal with children from Serbia and to see what the ministry can do to help these parents not to have to provide those funds, to advance payment. I say, they're getting their funds back, but you know, when you have to suddenly give a few thousand euros, unfortunately, a lot of people don't have it, so let's help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53066	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53067	Here, we checked about New Belgrade what's going on. It's only about calling for screening. People are invited to breast, colon and uterine cancer screening. Since these aren't the people who answer to us, we call them based on how many years they have and we can only get their fixed phone from the data available to us. So, in what we have, there's no record of their cell phone. It's just this group of people, they're usually old people, over 50 years old, and there's only a fixed phone in their files, and they're called as long as they don't get it. Let's not get mixed up with this ISIS, with this new system that exists, this is something else entirely, scringing. So, what we call people. And when we get to them, then we use the opportunity, which we couldn't get, to ask them to give us a cell phone, too, to call. So we're clear on what this is all about. You can't have the Data Protection Act, where you don't have it, and you can't ask for it some time, because it's personal data, cell phone, home number and all that stuff, not to get into that stuff. As far as this other guy is concerned, it's a thing that's foreseen by their own office and they're doing these things to prevent someone without asking their trust and approval from their trust from coming here. For if they had not worked, it would have been their argument. If they had not done so, then everyone would have skipped their trust, come here, and then only the account would have been made. (Miss Radeta: Must have from the fund.) But it only happens when there's no instructions from the fund. When you have a trust order, the trust guarantee and no one asks you to deliver, because why do you need a higher guarantee than a trust? So that's just what happens when you don't have a manual. And here, if anyone helps, we help. We on today, you know, over 11 or 12m euros are looking at that account. So it has nothing to do with us. They've made it so that when there's no instructions, there's no guarantees, and they're preventing people from bypassing their fund and coming here. But there's no child that hasn't been received, you all know that, so it's gonna continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53068	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53069	I'll be precise, Mr. Minister. At the moment in Serbia, more than 220,000 farmers are due for health insurance and contributions to pension, which is why. That's a big problem. This figure is about 160 billion dinars, 70 billion of which is the principal, the interest remains. This is what we have potentiald when Nedimovic was recently and the problem is that by 2008 the owner of a family in the country was the one through which other residents could secure themselves and receive health care. When it was changed, that's why the impositions grew. There was a mandatory registration of the agricultural land, so they could receive subsidies. And otherwise, to get subsidies for what they produce, they have to pay. Of course, everyone wants to pay. It is not pleasant for anyone to owe and who knows how much, perhaps 300 or 400 thousand other legal entities, entrepreneurs and others that are mandatory taxpayers, based on economic activity, which are not able to pay. Last year alone, 3,600 demands by entrepreneurs and reprogramme companies were filed in Kragujevac. What's the number of farmers, that number is probably much higher. Where is the injustice of the state? The injustice of the state is that it's mandatory insurance. The country, therefore, has a monopoly. On the other hand, a farmer who does not receive a payment of subsidies in time, because delays are huge, one who does not have the opportunity to be treated here in his place, because the networks of health institutions made by local self-government mainly went to the harm of the rural household, so many hospitals have been shut down. I don't want to keep your villages around Kragujevac. It's really one scandal that shuts down schools, but also hospitals that don't exist anymore. So people are forced to go somewhere else and travel from their home to heal. These traveling doctors, as part of various campaigns, can't be considered as something serious. The problem is, Mr. Minister, is that they are people, whether farmers or other health insurance companies who, because of their lack of income and because of the fact that they were unable to earn and operate as they imagined, because it is a vicious circle, someone owes you, then you owe the state, when they enter the programme, they have to pay, which is unconstitutional, retroactive and for health insurance that they couldn't do at that time. A farmer who today, in any branch of the tax administration, has to pay that reprogramme, with interest to be written off during the period, has until 60 wars the possibility of payment, but he didn't use it exactly the moment he needed it, or a member of his family. And what is great injustice and you are always talking – tomorrow, even tomorrow, Mr. Arpad is not here from the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, and he raised it as a question, even though it is in the coalition with you – when will you once pass a law that will allow farmers to pay the government for it on the basis of their incomes? Not like this. Because we have small, tight possessions. Where do you have more than five acres in the Woodland? It's rare, really. They're mostly households that have up to five acres. And when you look at the annual level, each one counts the same thing, it's an average of 96,000 dinars. As you said - tomorrow, tomorrow, here, they entered the new calendar year, here, and he asked you, and he, from the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, and we constantly potentiate it, that you should be so honest. Just before us this Marija Obradović, who knows nothing about the village or agriculture, tells us – you are against farmers, and we are constantly asking, since this assembly meeting was established, so since June 2016, the Serbian Radical Party has been constantly insisting that you help farmers. Now the question is, when are you going to do it? Since you are not a lawyer, as am I, but there are lawyers here and in our parliamentary group, they will tell you, I think even counterpart Jovanovic from Topola, as a citizen, submitted a letter or appeal to the Constitutional Court for such an anti-constitutional law that accounts for everything they did not use.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53070	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53071	I suppose you do, but the Ministry of Health isn't involved in any segment in any of these reprogrammes or things. We just don't have those options. What you can see in this law, what we've done to improve, so far you've had people who don't have health insurance, that their state only covers emergencies. We're now for all people who don't have insurance, that they can go into immunization mandatory, that they receive vaccines, that when they're for palitative care, that they can also use it, students up to 26 years old who have confirmation that they're also using everything, even though they haven't paid for insurance. We're trying all kinds of ways to get people to meet. You know that every week we do preventive checks and that we keep changing so that as many people as possible can use them to be covered, where we don't make any difference between people who have a book and who don't have a book. We stopped for a month, where the flu epidemic was. We go on with it within a week, two days, it's over. You know that's a big response, hundreds of thousands of people are coming to take advantage of that opportunity. So, what's on our side, we absolutely do, and we'll make it so. But the health ministry is discussing making a decision on farmers, what we did, and what's important is that people know, they had some restrictions that I don't think they were supposed to be, you had when you didn't pay or you're down to about 100, 200, 300 dinars, so you can't verify the book. It's changed now, you can make up to a thousand dinars. And we've found some limitations that if you're in the plus again, 100, 200 dinars, you can't verify your book. It's all changed now. You can be in plus as much as you want, your book will be checked out, and by 1,000 dinars of minus you can go. It's a process now. If you remember, there were serious problems, people were going to get those certificates, one and the other, and they were wasting their time, now it's all tied up, it's centralised, and then there's no problem. As far as we're concerned, we're really gonna do everything, but don't expect us to be able to get into those things about write-offs, reprogrammes and all those things that work. They're just not a field where we can act.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53072	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53073	It's your duty, Minister, to know, because I'm talking about those who are both entrepreneurs and bonds. That's at the point of this article's 17th proposal, which I'm talking about. You can't say right now – oh, I don't know, I'm the health minister. Yesterday you explained, or we have nothing against, representing and establishing the Asian Investment Infrastructure Bank, so as you know, you also need to know that farmers owe and couldn't verify the books. Now you say, "Yes, it will." I'm talking about a time when it wasn't possible. He cut himself, God forbid some machine hurt him, a member of his family and goes there and people paid. So, I'm talking about the period, and they're going to have to, all that they've been reprogrammed is going to go back to the Social Security Fund. You can't say it now. I don't know anything about it. Whoever signed the reprogramme today is going to pay the Fund right through the reprogramme. There's a nice item as long as it goes for retirement, as much as it goes for social security, and that's the problem that they couldn't do at the moment. You haven't been Minister since yesterday, at least since 2016, and until today, they haven't had an emergency, no immunization, nothing. That's what I'm talking about. So that's something that's the injustice of this government. The fact that you're counting on him to have a health book, so they don't all want to be without a health book. You are now giving opportunity for those who do not have to come, so that people will have to pay, but not to pay, so that the amount of income is reckoned to them as the one who has 20 acres and the one who has the name of a hectare of the earth. Get in that matter a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53074	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53075	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Secretary, my colleague Natasha just mentioned me by name. I would, by amendment, like to speak and use the time of my own MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53076	You have five minutes, so as you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53077	A very important thing and a very important topic. Minister, in 2008, I was a folk MP in a building in King Milan during the government, unfortunately, Mirko Cvetkovic, and I was talking about the destruction of what my colleague Jovanovic mentioned, which is when we changed the law and from something that was good, when the farmer of the agricultural land was verifying the book, other members of the family who were in the land based on it had the right to verify the book. When it fell apart and when they were all 18, they were supposed to verify their books, the debt grew, grew, grew, and in municipalities throughout Serbia. I've got people in the Woodland who owe me millions of dollars now. We've come to a serious problem. We're talking about the Health Insurance Act. It also concerns hundreds of thousands of farmers. Where's the catch we're trying to talk about here? It's that at this point you have an obligation from previous years, for example, farmers, to pay for something they didn't use. They didn't have a certified book. If they went to a health care facility, certain services had to pay, they didn't use it, and now they have to pay for it. What's the problem? You can't apply for subsidies now if you don't have a level playing field and then you're obliged to go to your tax administration, make that reprogramme we've already talked about and apply for subsidies with the Ministry of Agriculture. I have also asked you several times, as resolute minister, and Minister for Labour, Fight and Social Affairs a parliamentary question as well. I was given the answer that a working group was formed at the level of the government that had to solve this problem. Look, this is a serious problem that weighs hundreds of thousands of people. On the other hand, it is true that as a citizen, in late 2016, I also filed a constitutional complaint in November. I believe that the Constitutional Court should declare this and say whether it is possible for this decision, the unfortunate 2008 government, to be declared unconstitutional and thus to wipe out those obligations. The government of the Republic of Serbia, while the president was Mr. Vucic, made a decision at the end of 2016, that those commitments that farmers have frozen and start to pay again, and we will wait to see. In one answer, I got that negotiations with the IMF, because of certain things, would require all of this to go away, and then it would be seen how people can write it off. I think that you, as a resolution minister, together with the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs, should come up with a comprehensive solution, because we have a huge problem. I don't see how it can be solved, except at some point, when you're not a minister and we're not MPs, someone's gonna be in a position to give the executioners a charge. If that happens, we will have a revolution in villages and cities in Serbia. Imagine those millions of debts that are now standing, piling up. Those who want subsidies, a large number of farmers because they can't settle, don't apply at all for the subsidies the state gives. We mention it here and it's very nice when we say it's given to tractors, it's given to mechanization, it's given to it, and we're not saying that because of this problem that we have a bunch of people can't compete for these same subsidies, and that's a serious problem that can be solved at government level, at the level of multiple ministries. We agree here, but since there's a mandatory health insurance law today, and it's a good thing that you've now mentioned how many new amendments to the law will bring good ones, but what about these previous obligations? They stand, they torture us all who live in the country. Please let the government deal with this problem seriously. I think you just understood him now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53078	Thank you. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53079	Dear MPs, from what you just said, I really don't understand, I can't understand, I can't find any justification if you didn't have health insurance for one period, and obviously you didn't have it, I don't know who could ask you to pay for that health insurance you didn't use. From your version I heard today, it doesn't make any sense to me. You didn't use something, and now you have to pay for it. Gentlemen, it's important to me that you pay today, not to me, but to the system, to use it and to be. You want my attitude? My attitude... Nemanja Sarovic throws. () Absolutely, but you can't pay for something you haven't used. That doesn't make sense. I understand what you're trying to tell me. I'm going to honestly bet that people don't pay what they didn't use, find a way to figure out, to reset it at that level, from today on, with this to be seen, there's going to be a decision of the Constitutional Court and this court and those people who are lawyers, I'm not a lawyer, don't go into something these people know, but by some logic of things, I think this is a solution, we're going to subdue both because of these subsidies and because of some healthy logic people are paying now to have that insurance. Let this matter be resolved at that common level, at the level of the government and all those who have entered it. As for that, you really have my support. I'm fenced, I'm not a lawyer, I've only heard your side. There's probably another side. Let's listen to all those sides. I agree to sit down, to solve this problem. There are enormous numbers that you mention, certainly a great burden for people. I can imagine in a small environment when you mention to him that he owes hundreds of thousands of something, millions, this, what, just, it's a serious problem. I agree to sit down with all the people who have to participate in this next week. I tell you right now what my position will be - let's go to reset, let's get rid of it so that we can continue to function and stop there. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53080	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53081	I'm glad to hear that, Mr. Secretary. So you understand it's not just farmers, it's all health insurance. Article 11 includes entrepreneurs and all those who have the obligation. You know what the problem is now? The problem is that the Constitutional Court has been silent for two years. Here, you heard your colleague file a complaint, and those commitments continue to run. Whoever entered that program didn't use that right. Here, let me tell you the case of a lady, a respected entrepreneur. She has five employees, she has one period to give them, because she has large debts by her clients, all of her employees' salaries regularly and salaries and taxes and contributions, but she couldn't do it for herself. She's been through, it's a younger woman, getting a big goddess in her late years. When she came to the Clinical Center, she had to pay everything, and now she's reprogrammed to pay for that period she couldn't pay for, pay for the state, and pay for the part where she had this very unpleasant and severe illness. It's really amazing, it's such an injustice, and it can't be done at all by the Constitution of our country. So this is very important. We welcome the fact that you've made it possible for people who don't, who knows what the number of these people is, who knows how many of those rights are the numbers, the Verse always points out that it's over half a million working on black, and here's the farmer. Of course, now that this law is passed, they have the right to this urgent care and all that you've counted and what's in the law, but what these martyrs are going to pay for it. And you, when you get that solution about the reprogramme, you have a column there that's what for every month, how much interest is there, how much war is there, and it's exactly set aside for social security, and then it's all coming back to you, and you haven't used that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53082	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is now in order Milija Miletic, so Dr Darko Laketic and Dragan Jovanovic. That's the order. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53083	Dear Ministers, by amendment, I mean in these laws that you have proposed, which are now in our turn, which we're talking about, is really in place, and so it should be, you've given a really great chance for a great number of people who haven't had the opportunity to heal yet, now they can. A fellow MP who spoke before me, or Mr Jovanovic, has raised problems for our agricultural insurance companies who have lagging behind, where really big interest, interest on interest, these people have so far been unable to heal, but now for those who have the hardest chance. That's great. You said nicely that together we all sat down, or representatives of the legislative authority, representatives of the executive government, to find a solution for these people, because it goes on forever, interest on interest, and we'll get to something that's not good. Your proposal is in place, and I support everything you do, this is the right thing, and we need to find together these people the right way to do it, what can be written off, and then continue to pay, that tomorrow they can be treated, and that they can live normally, because with great debt these people don't have a normal life. Minister, it's a great honor for you to have this law, and I think you should support it. I'll vote for all these bill proposals. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53084	Thank you, fellow Miletic. I'd ask the minister if it's possible for all the speakers to say what they have, and then in the end, you can give an answer, if that's okay with you. Here you are, Minister Zlatibor Lonchar. It's important to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53085	I don't think he stays on an empty witness. I'm suggesting one thing, I think we'll be done by Wednesday. I ask you all by Wednesday, the people who are interested in making it out of here, I will organize the Ministry of Finance and Social Work, which is necessary, you and your delegation, to come to the government, we will only report the time it is, to be concrete and Wednesday to make the first meeting to take place with that solution. It's up to you to put together your team that will come to represent, the government will be on the other side and we'll try to solve it as soon as possible because I see it's a huge disturbance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53086	Thank you, Minister Loncar, for your cooperation. The word is Darko Laketić. Doctor, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53087	I really understand the exposure of the previous speakers. We have also heard of Milenić, the Messenger of the people, who is also a farmer, who lives on it, and who is best understood in the matter of which we speak. Of course, here these problems that have been brought forward, part of these problems are not something that has been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, but precisely for reasons I understand this issue, I only came forward to say what the administration of the Ministry of Health has come across since 2012 to understand first of all what has been done, what has been done, what has not been done, and what is what this legal solution regulates. In fact, this legal solution is excellent, but the law doesn't seem retroactive. All these legislative proposals will bring about a change at the time of adoption, i.e. from the moment of entry into force. I'll just remind the public that before 2012, we had huge waiting lists, regular radiation lists, we didn't have enough linear accelerators, I'm talking about basic human needs, I'm not just talking about health insurance, I'm talking about that over 1,500 people in certain cities were on the waiting list. You remember exactly what was going on. They bought places on those lists. You remember the Stonestone well. They were a problem that was incredibly big. These are dramatic situations, dramatic human destiny. From that moment on, from that situation, from that drama at the end of the day, we came into a situation not to discuss it. Today we are discussing health insurance models, how and how to improve health care. I see these legal solutions exactly that way, and that's why Mr. Minister's proposal for this three-way meeting, or whatever it's called, I think it's the right way, because the limitations of the Ministry of Health are such that it can't get in the jurisdiction of the second ministry and the health insurance sector with people from other parts of the system, I think, above all, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Agriculture, I think it will solve this problem in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53088	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word is Dragan Jovanovic. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53089	Mr. Minister, I thank you very much, and I hope that we will have a good meeting on Wednesday that should be representatives of two other ministries, both finance, the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs, and their representatives are very important on these issues and to see how this could be resolved and in what time period. Here's the key thing - lagging obligations, where you had to pay for something, you didn't use it, and now it comes to you for the past two years, and that's the problem that we have to solve because now if people don't solve this problem, they're making a reprogramme, they're paying interest to everyone, and it's a real problem because they can't apply for subsidies either on a republican or on a local level. It is that just as the citizens of Serbia, who are following this transmission, it is clear to them what we want. I'm neither a lawyer nor you, but simple and the lawyers say it's a matter of whether it's constitutional or not constitutional. The Constitutional Court will declare that. There'll be time for that. I thank you for your understanding, and I hope we can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53090	I gave you a replica. Just so you know about your time planning. You're almost there. Faith of Radeta, come in. By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53091	We are obviously in agreement with the solution to the problem that Natasa Jovanovic has launched here through this amendment, but I am not sure that we all understand the essence of the problem. It's okay what the minister suggested on Wednesday to talk to representatives and these other two ministries, but the problem is that these commitments are ongoing, which is due to interest. These are large amounts now and the question is, says counterpart Laketic - this law cannot be applied retroactively, so you have passed laws that apply retroactively and essentially, if there is a serious interest, it is not impossible. But there's got to be a line under there somewhere. Natasha was talking here about the problems of the people she knows from Kragujevac. In Kragujevac, a coordinator or something, the tax administration, was brought in a man from Kruševac, who has no idea what's going on in Kragujevac. I think there's some brother-in-law from Radomir Nikolic, and what's he doing here? He wouldn't be a problem for us like his brother-in-law, but the problem is that the law prescribed that the interest debt could be returned to 60 wars. Now people come, they want to solve this problem, let's make it 50, 40, 60 maximum wars, you know doesn't like people having that kind of burden on their shoulders, just wants to solve the problem. Then he says - 60 wars, well, you'll get a solution. A man gets a six-war solution. He didn't just forget the zero, but he estimated on the basis of nothing that this one shouldn't pay for 60 wars, although the law allows up to 60, but only on six, let's say, and a man can't repay that debt. So he wants the interest to be ratified, but he won't be given any clerks there. So, the subject is quite serious, and if we were to solve this problem, then we would really solve the big problem and our peasants who, conditionally speaking, owe it, I say conditionally, because the question is whether something like that can be called debt at all when it is known that many entrepreneurs who do business and function in this way have not been used. So we're holding you to it, so let's start dealing with it seriously with everything concrete. Now, you've heard all the problems, so tell these two fellow ministers to send people out of the service, and they can, and welcome us. This can be solved, believe me, in a week, it's just a matter of whether the government will accept and have a good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53092	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 34th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 5o. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53093	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Health Insurance Act was passed on November 28, 2005. Since then, as you have stated in this bill in order to improve health insurance, where numerous amendments and additions to this law have been made and even several times a year. So let's say, when there were numerous amendments and additions to this law, let's say 2011, 2012, three times in 2014, 2015, 2016 and now in 2019. This tells us that the proposal did not have a comprehensive concept and a clear draft of the law. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed that Article 50(1). The draft law after the word "in accordance with the law" shall be added to the words "in a month's time", while the said article reads "in a period of at least three months uninterrupted". I find the amendment meaningful because contributions to health insurance are already paid with the first salary. Of course, if the employer reported it. Unfortunately, today it is a practice for only a certain number of workers to apply, and that labour inspectors only work the first shift, and employers who have a second and third shift do so on hand. When the worker stops working, then the problem arises and when he talks to the selected doctor, it becomes even bigger. Mr. Minister, you, as well as your predecessors, find that during your term as the crown of your work, you pass a system law, while less is the necessity or need for that law. In the end, I want to tell you that it's a good thing that this time, unlike your previous laws, you entered into a constructive debate with the opposition MPs of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53094	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 52 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic to Article 53. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53095	Thank you. Under the mandatory insurance system, you are this member of the 11th expansion with Article 16 and this is a great thing for our citizens. I hope that you will promote this media well, that people realize that those who have so far had no right to health insurance, that they are finally entitled to health insurance, especially when it comes to youth, children up to 18 and students up to 26. Then faces older than 65 years of life, then persons who use various social aids, etc. So this was supposed to be done a long time ago, but it's good now, it's never too late. As regards the write-off of debts, it is very easy what the SRS MPs said, for an earlier period, because now these new regulations have no obligation for those who do not have a agricultural ownership to be treated, means what to do with accumulated obligations, i.e. interest in the legal system, or in the system where you have provided for the perpetrators as a state. So it is very dangerous to hold on to this many debts without these debts being settled very quickly, and it is possible to resolve because our MPs just said so. But we've been talking about this mandatory health insurance all along, but there's one logical question now, and you're here to answer us. When you talked about the reasons for the adoption of this law, you said it was a need to reduce public spending and to bring health insurance costs into line with real budget options. This reminds me a little bit of how to account for pensions. So, as much as there's money, we'll be able to heal ourselves. If that's true, you'll answer us now. It reminds me that, you've made a big coverage, and it's bigger for every praise, but we're afraid that the amount of health insurance will be smaller in terms of, if someone's regularly giving blood to a blood count, we're afraid it'll be just red, white blood cells, sedimentation, cholesterol and nothing. But what about hormones, what about other expensive analyses, and to what extent will it be about state spending, and when it goes to this voluntary, additional health insurance? Because here we also have voluntary additional health insurance, it's not an obligation, it's a possibility and depends on free will, but it's not just a matter of free will, depending on the material possibilities of someone who wants voluntary health insurance. That's why we're afraid that the degree of health care and health care will be lower, since you're passing this act that this law will implement and implement, so it would be good to explain for a little bit where it's going.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53096	Thank you, colleague Nikolic Vukajlović. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53097	First of all, I want to thank you for one thing that you've noticed, which we haven't said here, where you've made your point, for trying to help us get to the people to tell them who all these people are now going to be covered and who will be able to use, even though they don't have health insurance. Unfortunately, I will tell you honestly, we do this very hard, because when there is some good news for the citizens of Serbia she is not news and so I think that's exactly the problem. Obviously, it doesn't sell newspapers and it doesn't distract people, people think it's meant to be, and people who do things don't find it appropriate to promote it and do it. You see, for how many days we've been talking here and all that, and when you get the movie back and you look at how much it's represented and how much it says who's going to benefit from this law, it's very little. Of all the stories and the benefits that will be for all, they ask me only: what will you do with those who have not responded to the screening three times, so you brought him to pay for one part of the treatment, and what will you do if he has no money to pay for it, whether you continue to treat him or not? Here, it's a topic that's two days apart from all the topics that we've talked about here and that brings good. Next thing you know, what I'm trying to say to you and all of Serbia's citizens is very important, you asked why we didn't come and do this before. Because this isn't cheap at all. Because we had to find the money for this and put it into the budget for this year for the twenty-one first. Only when we found the money, did we come here before you to make it so that there wouldn't be a case you were talking about, that something would be denied from being done. No, I assure you, absolutely everything stays the same, only we added these people and they're going. Nemanja Sarovic: Time. So, I think this is an extremely important thing. If we can't break through the media already, but I never rely much on the media, I think the most important thing is what our citizens will feel and see and everything that's important to them they find out. Apparently, the media doesn't have to go. As for the extra insurance...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53098	Thank you, Minister. Time. Don't be so exclusive, I'm doing this because of the SRS, the minister is responding to a colleague. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here's my colleague, Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53099	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, when we are already talking about the right to health care from compulsory health insurance, I have a desire to commend the definition of work violation in this new law, which is more comprehensive, wider, more precise than the definition of injury to work in the old law, as well as the fact that it covered labour injury and the fact that the insured suffered injury on arrival and departure. That's why I just came to the phone and it's a more comprehensive definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53100	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 69th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 70th amendment. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53101	Mr. Minister, there is a shift in the health ministry, i.e. in the Serbian population's treatment sector, mostly thanks to the highest number of doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff. Earlier, you complained that what was good was somehow difficult to reach the citizens of Serbia, i.e. in a specific case to patients. If one press conference was dedicated to the health sector, then what should be promoted would be on the agenda. You were brought yesterday several times by the successes of the president of the state, so you seem to have sided with it. But this is what I was going to say, that there's space, there's time if we get organized differently, there's not one man who can treat and educate and work and build and work, but that's what the government should do as a collective organ. The amendment to Article 70 that we have submitted, for principle reasons we wanted to point out and say that this Health Insurance Fund, supported by the expert commission, could do some of the things that you're going to do for now. Just because of a number of problems in the health sector, you should turn around more other things. You say, in stating the reasons for not accepting the amendment, because the law predicted it. Well, if this amendment were now accepted, then the law would have predicted something different. You have a lot of obligations, and this screening, which has been going on since 2012, as far as malignancies are concerned, in Serbia started to apply and live in 2012, would have yielded greater results, it would have been better on the basis of data from the Institute of Public Health, Dr Milan Batut, in Belgrade, it is said that around 4.304 women were suffering from breast cancer, and that about 700 and something even died from it. The minister should be more concerned with these problems and this work, as you just expressed your desire to help solve a problem. It will not be enough for these three ministries, and it will take the Ministry of Finance to get involved in the solution to this problem, and it is possible, many times so far, with promises, whether under pressure, whether in a sincere desire, now not to decide, on a sincere desire to help someone, call on representatives of the finance ministry and then on the problem that she began to talk about, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, he will be easily resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53102	Thank you, colleague Peric. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53103	Just to be clear, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Tax Administration, the legislation, may have already made a list of people here who will be invited to this meeting. If you have the idea of someone else that you need for that being, it's up to you to make a composition here and come. So these are the people who will participate in the meeting on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53104	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The 70th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, Col. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53105	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also in principle discussed how this legislative proposal can be improved and we have also tried through amendments to correct exactly all the shortcomings that certain legal solutions have, i.e. the provisions of this bill. What they would point out is that the degree of corruption in health care is high and that this legislative proposal, unfortunately, will not eliminate corruption in health care and corruption certainly depends on the arrangements and efficiency of the health care system. This bill gives too much power to the minister and we are in Article 70(4). The proposal for a law relating to medical means proposed to replace: "Minister on a proposal from the Republic Fund" with the text: "Republic Fund on a proposal from the Medical Commission". In this way, this legal solution reduces the possibility of different abuses and too many joint ingenuities of the Minister and the Republic Fund. Also, a similar amendment, i.e. the minister's authority, has been replaced with the medical commission, when it comes to the list of medicines, and we have suggested that it is not the minister who, on a proposal from the Republic Fund, sets out the criteria, but is doing so on a proposal from the relevant medical institutions, for the reason that the greatest corruption is just present in the list of new medicines, which is the interest of the pharmaceutical mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53106	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53107	Just to be clear, because of the citizens of Serbia, how it goes and by what principle. Decisions are made by the republican expert commissions on a proposal from health institutions, and the republican expert commissions are composed of the best experts from all hospitals that exist. So they're making a decision, they're with the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but you have a large number of such decisions and demands per day. What we've done is that now these same republican commissions have to set priorities, sit between themselves and set priorities and see what's best to give the best effect, what's most urgent, what's going to make the best effect to go, and then everything else is just one procedure that goes from the Fund to the Ministry. That's it. So neither the fund manager nor the minister can interfere, nor interfere with these matters. Absolutely, the decision of the republic's expert commission and the most professional people Serbia currently has. By adding them and setting priorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53108	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. On Article 73 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 73. The bill and I'll remind you, this law defines the conditions under which the right to cash compensation for the absence from work is exercised. Among other things, point 6 is said to list these conditions, so one of these conditions is – because of the voluntary giving of organs, cells and tissues, except for the voluntary giving of blood. No matter what good things this law has, as well as some of my colleagues have spoken of, it is simply incomprehensible to me that money benefits are exempt from people who are voluntary blood donors. This way, the destimulation of these people who would be willing to give blood voluntarily is done, because we need to be realistic and know what our ordinary people are doing today, that most of these people are working in private companies, that they work in companies whose owners and employers are foreign to the face and foreign businesses and they are simply not interested in anything but working time and profit that they can make. I therefore believe that this amendment that I have intervened in this part should also be accepted and that these people who are voluntary blood donors should be allowed to do so on the day when they give blood or when they announce that they will be given blood to provide them with cash compensation. We also have a situation that a lot of people want to give blood in some joint actions, let's say, if it's some sports teams or so let's say political parties, and we've had cases of members of our SRS wanting to give blood in some of the actions of voluntary blood donation that we're organizing, but they just haven't been able to because their employers didn't allow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53110	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The 7rd amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53111	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 79. Proposal for a health insurance law. This amendment of mine refers to the right to make a profit. This is about the salary of a child who belongs to an insurance company. The law stipulates that the compensation also belongs to an insurance company that is the adoptor, fosterer, stepdad, or stepmother to a child. It's all right, but I think this should be extended to the rest of the family first. Here, first of all, I think about grandparents, because practice shows that in most cases, when there is a need for grandparents, the one who comes first to help and takes care of care of the unsettled children. We often have a situation where older brothers or sisters, of course, on the condition that they are full - age, take care of their younger brothers or sisters. This is one sensitive thing that you can't just go through. This depends on many of life’s fates, and this often defines the life course of those affected by this law. Don't let someone's life get ruined because of this situation. So I urge you to accept this amendment of mine, because it is in the interest of many who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53112	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 84th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53113	Thank you. Mr. Loncar, we have heard from you today that you have, or the Ministry of Health, some kind of republican expert committees, that these are the most professional people in all of Serbia, that they are rarely consulted among themselves, but yesterday you were saying something that is in conflict with what you are saying today. In fact, yesterday you were talking about the fact that you gave Sergei Trifunovic 250,000 euros for a private foundation, that you had no idea how that money was spent, whether or not it was spent, and that money ended up like that money that was being paid to Serbian citizens through SMS messages, which is, as you said, gambling with that money by investing in some investment funds across Slovenia, under now, I think, not sufficiently clear terms. My question is for you, since the Ministry of Health has a similar foundation, which you also said in public that it is not known enough, what are the paths and what are the decision-making procedures at the Ministry of Health? How did it come to you that, again as you said, Sergei Trifunovic played a folk hero in public on those days to give him 250,000 euros? Would you, if he were an example? He was acting like a surgeon, so would you let him operate on someone? God forbid, if Vulin had found himself here, if he had played the pilot, maybe we'd have trusted him with some plane to drive around. So, your explanation for me isn't special enough given the debate that took place on Twitter the previous day, you know that he asked for over Twitter money, that he was promised that money would come and that the next day that money was already paid. As far as I'm concerned, it's a complete scandal. At no time should the state be allowed to pay in private, humanitarian funds, not a single dinar, let alone 250,000 euros, because what if individuals who are at all professional about it will have nothing to do with it, have nothing to do with it, and you said something else, which is that at that moment in that foundation about all diseases, which the child will have a priority, is decided by only one doctor, who can certainly not be professional for all, nor could he drink all the world's minds, and worse still, that the second-degree decision-making committee was Sergei Trifunovic, who absolutely has no education, is not exactly about general education to say anything specifically educated, let alone about health. I wonder how this could have happened, what procedures are regular for what reasons have these procedures been violated, what have you done to get the money of Serbian citizens back into legal flows, because what has been done is undoubtedly not in accordance with the law, and who will be responsible for everything that has been done? I think that's a question that's completely in place and that these situations can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53114	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53115	Thank you for mentioning the state budget fund and what I want to say, the state budget fund is doing extremely transparently that at any moment you can get on the fund's website to see how much money there is, how many kids are being treated, of course without some data that can't be provided, personal data about children, where these children are being treated, how much money is being paid, how much money is being spent, how much is it cost to treat. But that's absolutely not the case with the fund, I don't know what it is, the politician trying or whatever it is, what it is. I'm behind everything I said. What I want to tell you and everyone, they're going to have to justify every dinar from the state they've been given him and from every citizen he's ever paid him. Absolutely every one. I don't have the authority to have me and my ministry go in there and question it. It must be done by other state authorities, but I assure you they'll have to give to every dinar where it's spent. What I'm trying to tell the citizens. I, in his trust, would never give up money. To pay my note and everything. I said what was the situation. If there were five children who were there, those children were absolutely not guilty and we didn't want those children to have his behavior and what he was doing, that they had any consequence. If he, or anyone else thinks that time will forget it and that he won't have to do it, I promise you it won't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53116	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53117	Mr. Lonchar, I have to admit I don't like your answer, and I'll tell you why. You said just so you wouldn't trust that man with 100 dinars that you would pay out of your own funds by texting, but at the same time you gave 250,000 euros in state money. You'd have to have a much sharper criterion when you have state money than when you're doing it with your own. You know, you can go spend your whole salary on hats or split it on the street, that's your right and no one can blame you. But for every penny of state money, you answer. It is not only the responsibility of Sergei Trifunovic, but it is the whole system, as it has come to the conclusion that in one country, which you claim is an organised system, that there are procedures, that there are republican expert commissions, that once a charlatan is paid into his fund, and 25 euros is a lot, because with these 250,000 euros, another child could be treated according to the law and by the state patronage, which is normal, which is what needs to be pursued. And, second thing, if you already have, you say you have no authority, you have a lot of powers, you have the authority to propose laws, so I'm going to ask you one more question. If you have this unfortunate situation that this man could gamble with money, pay into investment funds, lend loans and anything else. What you as a minister have done to regulate the work of these humanitarian organizations legally to limit what they can do with money. Every penny that's been paid was paid on purpose. When he was paying the money, he didn't think about it. Well, let's go if it's not necessary for the child, let him go a little bit, so let's make a deposit to the Slovenian investment fund, and let's see what we get in five, six years. Nor did anyone think that money should support any administrative apparatus in these humanitarian organisations, including the percentage of money that can be spent, and that is not exclusively for the treatment of children, must be reduced to a minimum and must be legally limited. So don't pretend that it's not your responsibility, if it isn't, why didn't you take it? There aren't since yesterday these funds, which serve as public promotion based on someone's disease, based on someone's accident, and you'll admit it's a very poor and primitive way to promote yourself in public. (President: Thank you. I also have the time of the parliamentary group, be patient, Mr Marinkovic. You've released a minister who's entitled to two minutes, as long as he wants. (President: And I let you almost a minute more by the tail) Disinfect that chair, apparently something of Arsic remains. So it's a very serious discussion, I don't really know why you're interrupting it. You are obliged, and it is not the first term that you are a minister, to see what is wrong, not only what the MPs and the opposition tell you, that it is not all malicious, although we criticise you. You should be grateful for every serious criticism that's not personal, not offensive, not vulgar, not anything. But we're criticizing you because we think you're doing some bad things, that you have to do a lot better and that in certain relationships, in certain areas, in which you haven't interfered so far. By the nature of the business, you have to interfere, not just lamentate, cry over spilled milk and say, "Here, we will wait for him to justify it." We don't have any of what he justifies, but we want an orderly system where such things won't be possible and in which they won't be able to, thanks to someone playing the folk hero, to get 250,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53118	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I was going to give you a replica and extend your time for a minute, but you're not going to make it obvious. I just had good intentions. The word is made by Minister Zoran Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53119	To be clear, I'm absolutely not running away from responsibility. So what I want to tell the citizens of Serbia, which is that for those 250,000 euros, they'll know exactly where and what. Don't just move that someone who gave those 250,000 euros that someone on the other side lost money that couldn't be treated. Absolutely not at every moment in all our funds was enough money and that was one of the reasons we gave not to Sergei Trifunovic, but we gave for five children, for which they were sent that they urgently needed money and that they were with him. So we looked at those kids, we weren't looking at him. As far as we're concerned, we're already at the end of a new arrangement, to call it, a law or a regulation on the functioning of these funds. This isn't about him breaking the law, it's about his own statute that he made at the Fund, where it doesn't say he can put it on the line and into investment funds. So it's about a man who doesn't have till noon. And you're absolutely right that he abuses all of this into his own political promotion. How much help do you think we should go out and talk every day about how many kids are being helped, how much does it cost? When we mention some numbers, some figures in the money, how much it costs, and every day it's full of mouths, it still calls people to pay him, and no account can stand where, what, how, now he's in, like, politics. I repeat, I'm not running away from responsibility. As long as I'm in this place, and I'm not in this place, I'm going to insist and do everything in my power to clean it up, not just for him, but for all the future and those who do it now. You have to know, we have a lot of abuse about these things. We have that people, parents, and they don't know that someone took their child and put it on one, that he's advertised and he's collecting help for it. After that, when all this is over, then they come to you with blank bills where the money ended, what happened, what happened. Let's not talk about any shipping companies, these companies stand up and say -- well, here we are, collecting. You can't ban someone from collecting. According to the Constitution, he has the right to say something about someone - here I am, collecting help, to make something happen. So it's very sensitive. Imagine the situation, someone puts a picture of you, which they usually do, they put a picture of a sick kid and they say, "Here, we're raising money for him." And what do you think I go out or anyone says, well, that can't be done. Guys, it's all business, but we need to get this thing into the system. This thing has to be brought into the system and that's how it works through the system, not in some other way. That's the point of the whole story, and we're sure to do that, because we've had enough of those examples that were and what was done, and I hope the citizens figure out where who does what and now they have a show. I can't have citizens in the first second, not in the first minute, in the first week and in the first month to figure out who has any intention, but eventually they find out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53120	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. You want a replica or an amendment? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53121	So, Mr. Lonchar, you're not elected minister because you're beautiful and smart, nor is it a popularity contest. You have been chosen to take actions that are most correct, which are most responsible, to do what is in the interests of citizens, not to act as the public expects, and you have already made two moves here because of the public's expectations. First, the money you've given, it's just for the public, there's no other reason, the second, that you don't have the courage to deal with these side effects more seriously and harder, because the more abuse you're dealing with later, the more abuse you're going to be. It will more, as you say, raise money for someone by using pictures of sick children, and essentially abusing these very sick children, and it will take longer to edit the system. It's your job not to fight for popularity, but to fight to fix the system, so that, when you finish your mandate, it doesn't matter, now or in five years, to say, here, I did it, and for Serbia, for her children, for all the generations to come, maybe they attacked me for this and for that, I did it wrong, but I left the system in order. Now, that's your goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53122	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 89th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 94, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 110th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53123	Mr. Minister, we have just submitted this amendment for a reason to clarify certain matters. You said the things that could happen to you earlier in the replica of your colleague Sarovic. This amendment, submitted by the SRS, we want to prevent possible abuse, not at all say that it will be common, not by you, not by your associates, but perhaps there in some last home of health where someone will turn to take some medical assurance, because it should be stressed that mandatory insurance is a dominant insurance in Serbia, that voluntary insurance is relatively young and that, most of the time, if they did an analysis, they would refer to some better-sighted citizens of Serbia than those who are worse in property. A member of the 110th bill speaks when compulsory insurance is not subject to a service, or is not contained in a service to be provided to a citizen in Serbia. That's what you've listed at 24 points in this bill, with about 130 cases where it's precisely the number that this refers to. The last 24th point says – other cases, but also the first point of view of Article 110, mostly refers to medical examinations in high school, colleges in various doctoral beliefs related to judicial proceedings, pre-examination of the store in insurance companies and the like. The rest is in the end – and the other, and if he were not there in the home of health, he would not be in the dilemma whether it was covered by this or not, we suggested that it be deleted. One more thing, though, and it worked so much more, you might have been able to say where you were – for children who are engaged in sports, so it was a free medical examination until the fourteenth year, to inform you that the growing number of young people, which is good in any case, which is a sport, where up to 18 years should be a free review, because one dinar invested in sport saves three dinars later invested in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53124	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word has Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53125	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, considering that yesterday when we talked about the Second United Search, unfortunately, I may have come out of the topic a little bit, but completely and completely founded when I commended what we have on the agenda today and what we are discussing today, and these are strictly legal proposals from the field of health, including this law that we are discussing. Once again, I will point out that it really is a qualitative new solution, which in any case represents extremely good solutions and answers to questions that were obviously problems in the work of health institutions. This way, I would like to point out something that is very useful for the citizens of Serbia, and that you have recognized and responded resolutely, which is transfusiological services. It is not rare that when the laws of certain norms are norms, they are sometimes both vague and unarranged. When it comes to transfusiological services, this time you have done it in an extremely good way, in one way that implies a very clear definition of the work of transfusiological services, their establishment of protection of the rights of those who exercise these services, again let their rights, and especially the rights of citizens to have security when it comes to supplying blood and blood components. That's why every commendation for one such arrangement. I am saying this on behalf of the citizens of the Zlatibor district, with the centre in Užica, I know that the situation is similar in Subotica, I know that it is the territories that are very frequent, given that these regions are engraving far larger territories, even two states, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH, Montenegro. Accedents are always possible and blood components are necessary. I think in this way we have achieved what citizens need, which is usually done for citizens, is in their interest, which is why I think that this is the standardization of the laws that you've done in this way for every commendation. You have every support, as I said at the very beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53126	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 114. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53127	Mr. Minister, this member is an opportunity to talk about a really important topic in Serbia, and these are rare diseases. Unfortunately, by the assessment of your ministry and by statements on several occasions, which has been advertised on the subject, whenever launched, Mr Mahmutovic, it is about 450,000 people, rare diseases affect children, but there are older ones who get sick of it. What was important and what you promised as a ministry is that by the end of 2018 you will bring a national strategy on rare diseases. It is necessary to do so for the simple reason that the Association of Rare Diseases indicates that only 5% of rare diseases are identified in our country's health insurance system, and the rest is 95% not. As a party, we stand for it after all those scandals and abuses of this unfortunate man, Sergei Trifunovic, on the torture of children and not only him, you who paid him that money, that all diseases should first and foremost strive for relevant institutions to assess which child will go abroad for treatment. This is all about all the insurance companies that are supposed to be treated abroad. That the state of Serbia with so many really smart people in health and with so many recognised experts needs its direction, I don't really know what this strategy will look like, and otherwise the position of the SRS is that not the government, but that in a single amendment to the Health Protection Act we wrote that they would be adopted, ratified in the Serbian Parliament, because there you can hear different opinions. I see you're a man who wants to listen and accept some good idea, but here is really a very sensitive question. It is certainly good for parents, for children up to 18 years old, that you have introduced in these legal proposals that they are paid 100% of their sick leave, but some employer will not suffer the permanent absence of that parent and we believe that the state should assign some kind of parent status – the care provider to those who treat children from rare diseases. What's it gonna be called, whether it's special care or what, anyway, a little more focus. It's not a small amount of these funds, 17 million euros, I was looking a little bit, and I went back to that period when these yellow thieves were, that was up to 15 times less in that period. Maybe they didn't even do that, those ministers, from Tomica, all over the place. It still needs to be a lot more. We understand that maintaining a social security system requires resources. We would all like to have everything available and that people can turn to get it, but this is a very sensitive question, I don't dare say that anymore, because I'm not a health worker, I'm talking about it, but I've simply felt both the need and the obligation, and all of us Serbian radicals, because they often speak to us and these parents write to us as MPs and as our parliamentary group of letters, so we'd like to hear your opinion, but we're taking the view that here in Serbia, we need to establish a centre that will be treated with our experts and children and adults until they can, of course, take care of how and where and where the child guides, but that we certainly have a basis for that and we have experts and just generations that they can do so, you'll agree that this is possible for the future, but at this moment, about the strategy, about money. And what they specifically potentiated in one letter, which we also got, is that when rare diseases are diagnosed abroad, then everything is paid there, and here when they get into some procedure, when they suspect, from doctors who are treating, they're usually children, that it's some kind of rare disease, and that they have a lot of administrative barriers and peripetia until they get to the very diagnosis of what they're dealing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53128	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53129	Let me immediately inform you of the Strategy for Rare Diseases has been completed and this procedure has to be completed to get all opinions and people who give opinions doing that analysis. It's up to them. I think we'll get that soon enough. So in any case, the Strategy for Rare Diseases has been completed. The second thing, I think you said well about rare diseases until 2012, 2013, in 2014. That topic should not have been mentioned for a reason because they held all the media and paid whatever you want to call a racket or anything to the media not to write about it. You know how parents who would go to wait for a minister or someone from the government to point that problem out to him, that guy would wipe himself like he never happened, like nothing happened. So out of that, out of the unrecognized, we came from untreated children to have a strategy today, I say in my opinion, it is, a being, that we separate more than two billion a year for the treatment of those children, and I say we had zero. Imagine that difference. The other thing was established a budget fund where children were not only sent to treatment, but also sent to diagnostics, which was not there, was not even considered. That's the facts. I have to tell you this in order for you to explain yourself to people, that's why they're called rare diseases. Rarely, a centre in Europe and the world in far more developed and much richer countries does not have hospitals for it. For what reason? Wouldn't you have the justification for the existence of that hospital, because you don't have enough patients. You have, say, some disease where you possibly have five patients a year in Serbia. And how do you train doctors and staff to wait and treat five patients a year. So that's the reason. Please tell people that's the reason. That is why Europe is also agreeing and having one or two centres in Europe alone, to do just that, to gain experience and to be able to draw conclusions as quickly as possible and to see what is good, what they can change to do. That's why. Of course, we aim to treat everything we can in Serbia, the children stay in Serbia, parents are with them, there are no additional travel costs, it is cheaper and more comfortable for both children and parents and for all those involved. That's the point. Just so we don't make any sense of it because it's not realistic to do it and promise people something that can't be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53130	Thank you, Minister. The word is Natas Spasoa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53131	Mr. Minister, I don't know if you remember, a few months ago, when we talked about your proposals for laws that were in the assembly, that we put out the idea that it wasn't just for children from Serbia, but for the whole region, the southeast part. This is because we believe that the state should take the initiative to develop it, because it will certainly continue to be. You say, and you are right – yes, they refer to diagnostics. But they told us that when diagnostics are performed here, they have to pay for certain findings themselves and it's a difficult procedure. For this reason, everyone is waiting for this strategy. Because it's all coming again, for us laikas for medicine, from this primary health care and from how you follow someone from birth. You doctors already know better, but you understand these people, they don't know each other, they think it's something passing, and it turns out that it is. We believe that the state and that it has a professional ability and they're just stepping up again, I say, those generations, who will be able to recognize it in time and help, not just the children here. How was this "Acibad" clinic celebrated in Turkey? Just because they first started some operations that others didn't, and therefore profit from it and make international agreements with different funds from countries, as our country did, and then, thank God, and the gamma-knife has arrived in our country and you see that we, or you better and as doctors all know, we can do that, we just need the resources. When you look at the budget, take a little interest, I believe that you just focus on your ministry, but if you put yourself in the role of a MP, you would see that so much money is scattered on various sides for some of the things that are the condition and the EU directive that we certainly won't get into, and that can be shifted, here, and to something like this, and that we can do even more. Yeah, you're right, two billion dinars, that's 17 million euros, and we believe there will be more in the future. From zero to 17m euros, but as time passes, however, it can redistribute and make it a good will to be even more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53132	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53133	I just want to give you one piece of information, based on what you said that we can be proud of our healthcare professionals, that there are more and more patients from the region and from EU countries coming to us to operate and pay for their insurance, especially neurosurgery and vascular surgery, and this way I want to congratulate these people who work, have become recognised in EU countries that send their patients here to treat and operate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53134	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 120th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 120. The Health Insurance Act refers to the reference of insurance to treatment abroad and the amendment we have submitted to intervene in order to reduce the possibility of possible abuses, which occur in this segment of health and how they occur. What we know is that the procedure to refer to treatment abroad is initiated by a domestic health institution of the therapeutic level of health care, after it has been consularly determined that all treatment options in the Republic of Serbia have been exhausted, and that there is a possibility of successful treatment abroad, based on a positive opinion of the foreign health centre, to which a specific case has been presented. But what is a big problem, and about it, Jovanovic said a little bit, is that there are no accurate data in Serbia and that some estimates say that up to 450 thousand people suffering from rare diseases. You were talking about the Strategy, so I would ask you, Minister, is there an appropriate classification and encryption in the health system of certain rare diseases that have remained unrecognizable so far? So is this classification covered by this Strategy?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53136	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53137	Let me get this straight. These codes can't be in the Strategy, they're done in the Republic Health Insurance Fund and there's already a lot of these things done, but not in the Strategy, which is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53138	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 125th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 125. A bill of this law. Otherwise, this law refers to the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. In the first position of this member of the law, the rights and obligations of this health insurance shall be exercised on the basis of the approved insurance documents. On the formal-legal side, this is all right and there's nothing to take away or add. But in practice, in real life, problems can arise here. We all know that they're in use now, let's say, these digital, chipped or how to call them health books, and now that someone who's in charge of work, especially in some hospitals in the country, can know whether someone's health certificate has been approved or not? In most cases, it won't be a problem, but as I said, in smaller places, in some villages in the health homes, a man with a health book containing a chip, and how is that worker there on the counter or doctor, a nurse, whoever it is, going to know whether that ID is certified or not? Of course, they're not connected to the Internet, they don't have the ability to check that way. Just because it can appear in practice, I intervened with this amendment, so that this thing is better and more precisely defined, so that there is no problem in practice, because if someone strictly adhered to the letters of this law, then he could return any patient, even though he has a certified health book, realistically and formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53140	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53141	Absolutely every health care facility has a health book reader. It was a condition when we introduced it all. So, it can't come to that problem, and automatically, all health books are connected, they're automatically authenticated. So far, we haven't really had that problem, and I've never been reported it, because it's already all presupposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53142	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53143	I agree that every health care facility has a reader of these health books, but what do you do in those cases when, say, the power goes out when that reader isn't functional? We've had opportunities like this. First of all, by submitting this amendment, I was thinking about these things. It is simply necessary to predict all possibilities so as not to put up with our citizens, or our patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53144	Here you go, Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53145	Every health care facility is obliged to have an aggregate in case of a power outage. That's one thing. The other thing, it'll never happen to a health care facility, and if it doesn't, it'll bring someone back without being able to verify. These are all people who have understanding and who will bring a book at some other time or if they forget it, there's really no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53146	Thank you, Minister. No one's answering for a word. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic to Article 129. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 148 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 232 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53148	Thank you. With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the illogicalities of the bill, not just this one, but in general. You have set in one of the members a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, I don't know, 12 months, and on the other hand, you have provided for consent to the financial plans of the health institutions of the network plan, where the control of these financial plans is carried out in accordance with the law. You yourself said in your explanation that this will be done when technical conditions are obtained. So you're predicting something that you don't have technical conditions for, and on the other hand you haven't prepared sublaws so that the law can be applied immediately. Otherwise, we make remarks to ministers why they do not provide services with parallels with the drafting of the text of the law and the proposals for sublegal acts. In fact, you pass the law and you say the entry into force of the eighth day of the day of publication in the “Official Messenger, ” and it cannot enter into force when it takes a year for you to wait for a sublegal act and another year for you to get home to health, hospitals, etc. comply with these sublegal acts. I'm going to use it again, keep track of the work of our session today, and apparently health problems are something that people are interested in. It's completely logical and completely normal, because about a little who exists and doesn't have any touch points or any good or bad experiences, when it comes to health, health care, health insurance, etc. We're doing it somehow, and you're doing it yourself, and we're discussing these two laws together even though they're divided, but basically, the problem is the same. I just got a call from Vrsca, the Deaf Association. They say they don't, the man told me about the House of Health Vrsac, the truth he mentions some other institution in the territory of that municipality, but we're talking about this now, interpreting sign language. He says the association has, now that I disagree, and they listen to me, whether 400 or 600 members in the area of that part of Banat. He says: He is the only one who can do it, who can interpret that sign language for the deaf, and then he is wherever he can and as much as he can go and work with those people. Yesterday, he said, he was running a pregnant woman who, if it weren't for him, couldn't agree with her doctor. You may not know, but here I remind you, in 2015 a law was passed that obliges all institutions in Serbia to have interpreters for sign language. This is, therefore, just one specific remark from a particular group of people who certainly deserves that kind of attention. You know, when you see a particular example like this and a case, then they open up, let's say, different possibilities. First, these people seem to be favored, if someone who knows that sign language is employed, and on the other hand, if one such person is employed in each municipality, we have a certain number of jobs. So we're doing something that is absolutely necessary, which is in the end, and it's not some I don't know what the cost of the state is, and even if it is, what to do. Just now, one of my colleagues, was Nikola Savic, talking about prescriptions, medications, etc. Just to ask you, Minister, do you have information that there are doctors who recommend to patients instead of regular medications as the only cure of different supplements. That's what they can buy themselves, so that's what they say. Before they use it, they have to consult a doctor or a pharmacist, so no one knows what he said. So instead of the cure, you understand, instead of the regular drug, doctors who are in a close relationship, not to say what kind of medicine, with some manufacturer of one of those ingredients, recommend it as the only cure. You as a doctor know well that giving supplements can't be medicines, can be used with medicines, etc., but to treat only with them, it certainly can't. This is information for you and your associates to deal with both the team and try, if we're here, and it seems to me that we are, with the aim of, as far as possible, improving the state of health. It won't be good after these laws. I suppose that's clear to you, but you're showing a good will to improve the situation as far as possible in these conditions. We also want the situation to improve, so we've been talking this way for two, three days, with you and we'll continue until we're done with this. None of our objections are malicious, and I didn't want to say that doctors are like this or like that. Generally, we never judge people, we never say all doctors are corrupt, all judges are corrupt, all civil servants are corrupt, etc. We always say, we claim and believe that it is, that all these professions and others, that they are generally honest, honorable, valuable and professional people, but there are exceptions that spoil the image of one complete profession, one complete profession, and medically important and very sensitive, so let's just draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53149	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53150	In particular, as regards this case from Vrsac, the home of health belongs to local self-government, so it is one of the reasons why it now goes to jurisdiction. We'll call the regional secretary tomorrow or Monday. I don't think there's gonna be any problem in solving this, hiring these people wherever they are, to help. It's our responsibility. We don't have any problem with that. The other thing, we just need to clarify one thing, any doctor can't prescribe, you know what can be prescribed on the prescription... (Miss Radeta: Recommend, do not copy. Just so they know. We have to clarify one thing because of the citizens, because you said at one point – they don't overwrite the prescription, and then they say – instead of the cure, go take this supplement. I really think citizens need to know that -- they're not medications, they're not treated like drugs. So, dear citizens, supplements and all that, these are auxiliary medical supplies, medical aids that don't go at all, and they're not on the list so the doctor can prescribe them on a prescription and go on the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Therefore, it must only be clarified, either you are for some medicine or you are not for the cure and it is clearly seen whether you have a prescription or not. For the supplements, dear citizens, there's no reason, nor can anyone make you take any supplements, any medical aids. There's the law, it's very clear - what the doctor prescribes. I have no doubt that there is, since in every profession there are, these pharmaceutical houses or those who produce these auxiliary medications. I'm sure they're bombing with this propaganda material, with the doctors' promises and everything, but the patients need to know it's not about the official attitude, or anything. We know what the system has determined what can be copied, what cannot be copied. It is absolutely the patient's free will whether to use an auxiliary medicine or not, and for people to know, these medical aids are in the Food Act and are used as food supplements. So, between drugs and this is a huge difference and there's no need for citizens to be in a dilemma. The next thing you know, yesterday or the day before yesterday, I said, "I'm appealing to everyone in the pharmacy and to the citizens who see that they're reporting antibiotics without a prescription." So the inspection will literally go on from today. (President: Bringing the end. ) The second thing I have been insisting on for years is the most important relationship, if we want to have better health care, is the most important relationship between a patient and a health care worker. There are things that may not be able to solve medicine or anything, but that relationship is the most important and when there is a conversation, when there is understanding, all things are much easier to solve and they are much easier for both the patient and the person who works there. Don't just ignore it at any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53151	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53152	It seemed to me at first as if we didn't understand each other or I was inaccurate. I didn't say that prescription doctors prescribe supplements, no, but anyone who understands a little bit, let me say, knows that for some medicine, I'm talking about some easier diseases, that this and this medicine are being given. Even the patient says -- here, so far I've been taking this medicine and this medicine, and the doctor says -- no, you don't need the medicine, just go to the pharmacy and buy it. That's what I'm talking about. What you say is in the law. They don't know what the law says, that's logical, that's one thing. The other thing, when a man comes to a doctor, comes with full trust, comes to him to be easier, even if it's a harmless disease, or God forbid, more serious. The patient trusts the doctor and it's perfectly normal, and what the doctor says doesn't care what the law says, or what he heard on TV, or what he read in the paper. What the doctor says to him is everything and everything. Since you're talking about inspections, you're sending in inspections when it comes to issuing, or selling antibiotics without prescriptions. So this should be part of that control, too, so it's part of that surveillance. Perhaps you have a problem with the lack of inspectors. We say to every minister – don't let people spare on something they shouldn't be saved on. It's no excuse when you haven't told us today, and these days, but we've had your fellow ministers, he says - I know about this problem, but you know, I have 15 inspectors for all of Serbia. It's not my problem, not ours, not this people. You have to fight that enough inspectors and it must be people who know their jobs and who will do their job honestly and honestly in the interest of this entire people. You know, I don't have to tell those of you sitting here what the nation's health means. It really takes all of us to make every effort, all of us in our own way, to bring it as far as possible to some perfection, to the perfection of the real one as never, but as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53153	Right on the line, Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53154	We don't have a problem with the number of inspectors. We have absolutely enough of them. Just for the citizens to understand, the inspector can't sit when the patient's at the doctor's. In order for us to work this out, the patient has to report it. We respond literally on the same day. To report - the doctor won't give me the prescription I've been drinking, he tells me I'm going to buy something else. That's the point. We need to know that to report it to us in order to respond. There's really no other problem here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53155	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic to Article 233. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and finds that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic to Article 269. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and finds that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 270 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 273 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I need to share one of my personal observations with all of you. In fact, Mr. Minister, when your laws were last in this assembly, it seems to me that it was the Transplant Act, you were acting extremely incorrectly and slightly inappropriately. You ignored us, SRS MP. You didn't participate in the debate, and you didn't answer any of our questions. As you can see, Mr. Minister, SRS MPs are normal, serious people, committed to maximum work and constructive debate. The healthier the atmosphere is today, and the better the energy, you have contributed to it yourself. As for my amendment, it refers to Article 273 which provides for insurance obligations, I do not like this term, within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, to align their business acts with the provisions of this law. I asked you to take number 12, i.e. 12 months, substitute for three months. It's a reduction in this deadline for alignment. The amendment is in line with the position of the SRS, that the deadline for sublaws must always be as short as possible, otherwise the law itself is devised. As with all these legal proposals in the field of health, greater powers are given and introduced by the Minister, including in the work relating to normative activities, i.e. the adoption of general acts implementing this law. The general characteristics of this entire set of health laws are written with the same hand, so that there are no normative and linguistic errors present, as well as insufficient arguments for their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53157	Thank you. On Article 277 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53158	The position of the 2nd member states that the provisions of Article 177, 178, does not matter, this law, apply until the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. We have suggested that this be deleted and the ministry warns us that the amendment has been rejected precisely because this is applied until Serbia's EU accession. We think Serbia will never join the EU and we do not want Serbia to join the EU and this was a completely unnecessary provision. If it had happened, God forbid, if Serbia had joined the EU, it would have been easy to change this member of the law. It's just, it's kind of kind of kind of disgusting to us, and that's why we asked for this to be erased. There are many things in certain countries that belong to the EU, which are members of the EU, and also those who are not, which can, by example, show us how healthcare works. We don't mind that. We don't mind that as much as it's possible to pay our doctors, sisters, nonmedical staff, so all health employees to bring those developed countries' salaries closer together. There are experts among you, you will agree that we have serious experts, that we have experts in the world and European voice and that it is necessary for more states to be engaged, above all, to raise salaries to doctors. Not just the doctors, when I tell the doctors, I mean all the health workers, we complain for free, people go where they're better and it's not good. The state must make it the maximum possible for as few people, doctors in general, especially doctors and medical staff to leave Serbia, especially to do so for material reasons alone. The doctors say, they're not just paying for the problem. Of course, they are. The problem is progressing in the profession, the problem is specializations, problems in many, unfortunately, institutions, where such things continue to end only through some kind of relationship. It's hard for a good doctor to get a specialist, but a good doctor can't get any better in the profession. Believe me, it's all somehow still, he says it depends on the director, he says it depends on the minister, he says it depends on the secretary of state, etc. It may be just excuses, but it just has to create this healthy environment in health, that the doctor is really happy to do that job that he's certainly doing for pleasure. We're all done, or we've got a certain education, someone's finished high school, some college, doesn't matter at all, but somehow the doctor's call is specific, and it doesn't seem like everyone's minding to go to medical school and finish medicine. There's still something in man, something specific, and we have to treat these people that way. Maybe the public won't understand me well either, they're not doctors of any deity, but in any case, if we don't have good and professional doctors and medical staff, then it's a waste of the state I don't know how much money and I don't know what to provide from that equipment, etc., if there's no one to work with, there's no point. On the other hand, the state can invest, I don't know how much in this clinical center, in that clinical center, this kind of equipment, this kind of equipment, the most modern, or that we have great doctors, and we don't have that equipment. It can't go without each other. It has to be done parallelly. We often listen to you ministers in public, you brag, you talk about getting this, you got that, we got this equipment, we got that equipment, if that's what it is. Come now, then, fight at the cabinet's session, what the president of our party said in principle, to make sure that health workers get out of that limiting profit-restriction session. As for us in the SRS, we have advocated that restricting employment and restricting earnings is nowhere in this way, simply that the state has to function, and not now by some administrative act someone says – well, we prohibit the employment of doctors. It just can't and can't. You must fight it, Minister, so that doctors and other medical and non-medical staff can raise their salaries, so that these salaries can be truly decent of them to live. Now this increase that the doctors got, this last one, can't be said, is not insignificant, but you know when you add to a small salary and those 10% still don't feel it in everyday life. We can't have a doctor burdening us with whether he can pay for electricity, whether a woman can buy it while he's in the O.R. or with patients, whether he can buy these or those kids. Simply, the doctor must be relieved of all these daily problems. It certainly applies to all professions, but the error in each profession is much less and the greater error in each other's profession is much less than a small error in your profession. You really have to take this, the doctors say - yes, the problem is pay, but it's not just pay. Come on, do it, now you're doing that centralization, we don't think that's good, you think it's good. It will show whether or not it is, but in any case, especially what you are about to centralize, see that these people who are your directors, who are assigned to hospitals, health homes, etc., see that you teach them, or that you send those who will really appreciate colleagues who work, who are interested, younger doctors who are interested in progress, to learn. With these jobs that you did last year on two occasions, it was with young doctors, it's definitely something to say hello, but it should continue. For a long time, young doctors have been doing volunteer work. First of all, I don't know if you know it, very little learning. They go, they want, they want, after all, they want to be around, so if there's any competition, I guess somebody's gonna remember that I've been volunteering here for a year, so they're gonna hire me. Senior colleagues aren't exactly in the mood to pass on knowledge. I don't know why, but it is. Not about it, it's the greota that a young doctor goes to a year, two days, even more to volunteer, to go to work neatly in the morning, come back in the afternoon, or what his shift is, that he doesn't even get that money so he can pay for a ride or eat something. So, what's a man like that for? In the course of volunteering, he passed the professional exam, and he slowly packed his suitcases and left. You must do everything, everything in your power. We as MPs will help you with the law and the proposal and we will support every time something you do, which is in the general interest, and what you do, what your ministry does, your responsibility is great, your responsibility is great. You have to fight within the government, so you can answer for something that you're expected to do. Some steps are done, we think insufficiently, insist, hire young doctors, buy equipment, raise salaries and doctors and sisters stop leaving these people I don't like when someone says brain drains, they carry their brains where they go, but stop going people and young doctors, and only these doctors with experience. You know, people leave, doctors who have both sisters 10, 15, 20 years of work experience, who made a trade, conditionally said, trade in Serbia and specialization ended up here and so on, but for 100,000 dinars, they can't live on it and go somewhere where they're going to make 5,000 euros or more. So, we don't expect Serbia to be able to pay doctors 5,000 euros today, now, but they can still get paid more -- they can. You intend to tell the story, both you and the President and the Prime Minister, boast about the surplus, boast about it. The President of the Republic says -- we have the money whoever he's looking for, we have the money, we don't know what we're going to do with them. Here, pay the doctors, nurses, nonmedical staff and equipment to ensure that they have a proper relationship with their fellow doctors. We know it's hard, that you personally can't go from doctor to doctor to doctor to do it, but listen a little and have a hearing when you get some information. Listen, check her out. I'm not saying that it can't happen that someone from pure obscenities writes a letter and says, "I don't know, I'm being squished by the boss, the director, and so on." But you should check that out, too. So, it has to be a complete health system, health care needs to be raised to a higher level in every sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53159	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53160	I'll try with a few facts. I am pleased and we agree that we have both European and world experts and that in order for them to remain that way, in order to be even better, we must also have these standards that apply in Europe and in the world, so we change these things and adapt them. That's the only reason, because we want those standards that gave us results and that we need them to give us results. As for youth employment, I have to say that we've hired over 12,000 medical workers, we've given 7,150 specializations for these last four years. Every year twice, in the spring and in the autumn there is a competition for specialization. I have to say that the first specializations we've given, these people haven't finished specializing yet, because it takes five years for them to finish it. We'll only see those results, but it's necessary to pass the time. No one gets a job without a competition, everyone gets a job at the competition. There are commissions that determine that. We've been hiring the best students, for 160, every six months. The minimum of 50 or 100 best students remain not only to get a job, but what we talked about gets a specialization paid by the state and gets doctoral studies paid by the state. To be clear, there is no restriction on employment in health care. So we just have one kind of control that doesn't happen to us that we hire more doctors or nurses somewhere and there's them in excess, and there's a shortage in the other place. We need to control that to make our system work. Admit it, it can't be any different. I also told you, the fusion of health homes and hospitals at the expense of this nonmedical staff that we won't need so much at all, we'll hire medical staff, doctors and nurses. Then we are guaranteed to have a better service both in the home of health and in the hospital, and where co-operation is taking place between the exchange of staff between the hospital and the home of health, which so far has not been. The doctor at home couldn't keep an eye on the hospital, and, say, the hospital had a shortage of these specialists, like gynecologists, pediatricians. They did until two o'clock, went home, and these people at the hospital were struggling to cover their shifts, how to cover their duty. Or the hospital had extras for some specialists, and they didn't have them to cover the infirmary in a health care facility. When you have that one system, then just make a schedule and solve the problem that you have so far had to solve by hiring, by giving specialization and waiting for all this to happen. Now you can organize yourself much better and plan specializations and these go to the health care care center, from hospital to health care and plus nonmedical care. I repeat, we are not firing anyone, as it stands out for people, as they retire or elsewhere, we receive medical staff, doctors and nurses in their place. As far as salary is concerned, you have to agree that the highest wage increases in health care, nurses, doctors are going to continue. We're all aware that the salaries are small. Who would be happier than me to say tomorrow -- when I was a minister in my day, wages came to Serbia at 23,000 euros. But we have to be realistic. When you get extra money and we say there's money in the register and all that, you have to pay it, you have to give it to the equipment, you've already forgotten that our people went to the gamma knife abroad, so that they went to X abroad. They were all combinations. Well, the accelerators, people were dying waiting to get their turn. For the first time, we have one accelerant per 250,000 inhabitants. We've got more and more hospitals where there's no waiting lists, especially inland. In large numbers, we're going to decrease. It's not over yet. There's no land where there's no waiting list, let's be realistic. When you give that money for that equipment, for the X knife, the gamma knife, for the accelerators, and to build buildings, for clinical centres, for wages, and to buy drugs, do you know how much it costs to treat a rare disease? For one child a year 500,000 euros. Just for one child. Then you can see that from all that money, you're going to schedule where you're going to give it. You can't just choose to give for one thing. If you put on salaries, you'll have to take away somewhere. So we're looking at the most useful thing to do, to be given in all fields, to be the best effect. If you think anyone can look at something other than where the greatest benefit will be, I'm sure there's no theoretical chance. There is no one who would be happier than you and than us, especially us who are here so that we can pay to be a few thousand euros. We'll get to that for sure, but we need to schedule everything he's got. That's the essence of the story. To see it's good, it's ideal, it's not and it's absolutely standing. To improve, people see it improve. Just remember what it was like. It was a ban on giving specials, so you had to work for two years just to compete for a specialization that wasn't even, which you won't give. About hiring me not to talk, what a black contest, there was no competition. Participating, tariffs were twelve, ten, eight thousand. He who is not a member of twelve thousand, ten thousand an ordinary member, and eight thousand he who was a prominent member. Have We forgotten all this? Ask those kids, they're hundreds and hundreds of kids we hired, we gave specials, we gave everything. It's got to pass the time and get there. To throw as much money as you want now and make things right, this is a system of over 120,000 employees. Imagine how it's 120 thousand employees to make it possible in every infirmary, that in every home of health, that in every hospital, there's everything in every room that needs to be gone, that the system works and it works. Meet me in that position and tell me. So what reason would we have not to give anything away from it? Why would they sit here? So who's happier than us when something is given, when there's something? What else? What would they do to me? There, that's the point. I like everyone to understand. The cake when you have, then you have to divide it, let everyone be satisfied, and get the maximum effect out of it. What are we doing with all these savings and what are we doing with the DRG? You know that everything in Serbia in health care was paid for jutura, that you didn't have any price of service as much as it costs, that it's just now started to revive that DRG, where you can know exactly how much it costs, how much you pay, how much medicine, how much material you have in your condition, where it's going to disappear, what it's going to cost you and how much it's going to cost for the operation, for the treatment and for all that stuff. It didn't exist at all. Remember the hundreds of millions who left, who weren't seen in health care. Here, say now, let's buy one thing, what's the principle we introduced? That we can't buy one single thing, and that at the moment we buy it, let the doctors pick whatever they want, at that moment it's the cheapest thing in Europe that we're going to pay for. That's what I'm asking all the producers. Guys, that's what he can do. We can't go over that jorgan, it's as big as it is, but if you pay more taxes, if there's more money, if there's more investment, if there's any more money, there'll be more money for both wages and for treating children than rare diseases. We're going to be taking more and more new therapy. That's our goal. I think we have the same goal. I don't know a man in Serbia who doesn't have this goal, he can talk, but I'm sure he doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53161	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53162	It's not exactly like you said. You say you forgot your doctor's employment tariffs. Yeah, I forgot to mention that when I spoke earlier. Unfortunately, there's a rumor that he's got it now. Tell me where. No, no, I said, it's a story. I want to know specifically... Don't say-say. ) Don't, let it go, and we don't know who it is before, and we've talked before, we don't know anyone who's given 10,000 euros to get a job. No one's gonna say that. No one will say – I gave. It is again a problem in the second part of our legislation that is not related to health care. We have also insisted for decades on this, until rooted corruption in Serbia is equal to the donor and the recipient of the bribe. The one who gives bribes should be freed of criminal responsibility, because someone forced him to give bribes, and the one who takes bribes should go to jail. But it has nothing to do with this law, but we're just saying how many practical things there are that have to be done in the state to get me some, let's say, children's diseases that may already be sick and overcome in our country aren't to get sick. As far as these doctoral studies are concerned, it's not the same doctoral study as a young doctor who's just finishing college and the one who's already started working, so he wants to doctor. Whoever started working has some years of internships, and then wants to enroll in doctoral studies, it goes to the expense of your fund, and a young doctor who finishes his regular studies with a high average is enrolled in doctoral studies and financed from the budget just as a young lawyer ends up a master from the budget, and then goes to doctoral studies, too, from the budget, if he has a great average. These two things are different, believe me, I know that for sure. So, in any case, it's very commendable and that number that you said young, not entirely young, but also people who are already in work, who are in doctoral studies, especially in various specialist studies and, of course, you know best, I don't think personally, but generally what are the specialities that we have in the deficit, etc., this should be paid more attention to, but on the other hand, you should also take care of the affinities and wishes of each doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53163	Thank you. On Article 277 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53164	We understand, Mr. Minister, during your stay here in the Assembly that Serbia is your first priority and that you put all the focus of the debate so that both health systems and social protection and health care should be Serbia's concern for Serbia's citizens' health. For this reason, we have submitted this amendment, a colleague in position 1 and I in item 2 because it binds the entry into force of a part of Serbia's accession to the European Union. Serbia will never become a member of the EU, because the EU, as a freak and bauk, has already failed, it is absolutely clear to all, and there may be a Europe in Germany, because the German Union in the EU is now, as it is making absolutely and economically and all other policies, something that will not survive, especially because of Angela Merkel's unfavourable position. Then the question arises why do you all from the Government of the Republic of Serbia continue to repeat this same story as a mantra – both the EU and Kosovo, when you know it is impossible. As the one called it, here, I had to remind myself, Peter Byer, an MP from Bundestag, who seemed to me, in October or November last year, to say that de jure Serbia must recognise the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, that it is an independent state. Isn't all that enough signal for you, as this McAllister says, yesterday's gatherings of Brussels officials in Belgrade because it marked 10 years since the application for EU accession was made. We don't really have time anymore. On the other hand, see what our enemies from the EU are doing to create a cataclysmic situation in the country. Well, you didn't think that this Ljutician Bosko with this thieving frat brother, Gilas and Jeremic just came up with the idea that he was doing all this, did he? So they're just being shaved by your friends from the EU to do all this, to tear down the state system. That is why it is necessary to break up with this policy, because it will indeed be late at some point in time. The conditions and a legally binding agreement will also condition Serbia to give up its territory if it wants to join the EU. We who participate in these various international delegations as members of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and how we have the opportunity on the spot, believe us, to see this disagreement between them, the EU member states. We look forward to every disturbance that appears there. We are also pleased that the next step towards leaving the EU is Italy, that all this is happening in front of the eyes of the people you speak to – only there is our safe future. No, it's not. After 20 years, they haven't apologized for the crimes against our people. After 20 years, no one was responsible for those crimes. Our only-born children and unfortunately many older people are losing their heads as a result of the vicious NATO bombing and a commission has been formed that has come up with quite certain scientific claims and that meaning. Therefore, we consider this to be the last moment, and those who will support this bulument who is willing to betray everything, the state and the people, let them do so. You turn to your Serbian friends. After all, we have repeated ourselves, but a few days ago the Serbian patriarch once again said so – our ship to bind to the great ship of the Russian Federation and to take care of who will protect us in the geostrategic, military, political, economic alliance, and of those who are our enemies, we have nothing to look for. This is what I'm going to end up with, Mr. Arsic, it's a serious topic, about a lot of people leaving. You're right, we can't offer them that kind of salary right now, but I'm sorry, please, it's a national resource. Every man who graduates from high school, and only college and specialization is the treasure of Serbia, and they are now getting it on the table. People do it because it's propaganda and they don't have the patience to wait for them to be you, what you're saying is better terms, to make even bigger wages. So look, you said, "What is the yorgan," I'll say "guber," so, by chance, the place of origin of Mrs. Radete is called so, it's an old saying, "resume what it is". I think he's a little longer than what you're saying and you have room for employment, for even bigger wages, for the purchase of equipment, and we'll always welcome it, but it's really the last time you leave your way to the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53165	The word has the People's MP Milan Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53166	The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, co-workers and colleagues, is a very important security status in Kosovo and Metohija, I absolutely support the policy of the Serbian state, which takes care of every citizen, or every Serbian security officer, and that is how many examples of Serbia's country, led by Alexander Vukic, or the health ministry headed by Minister Loncar, invests in health care in Kosovo and Metohija. I will list some investments in healthcare because for this I have data, which is an increase in hospital facilities, i.e. the number of beds in institutions, secondary and territorial health activities, the purchase of new appliances, the adaptation of business rooms and offices, the construction of new facilities for the needs of health institutions, for example in the Kosovo-Pomorava County, because of the need for the second-time health care population, the conditions for opening up the internal medicine, surgery, paediatrics, maternity wards and extended services for laboratory and biochemical diagnostics. Then, it was put into office of a new health home in Gorazdevec. It should be stressed that this is the first investment in a health institution in the Pećko district after the war events in Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, after 19 years. One of the most important investments and investments in the Kosovo Mitrovica Clinical and Hospital Centre, as well as citizens of the new hospital in Gracanica. I would especially like to thank Minister Loncar for his endurance in drawing up human resources for health institutions in Kosovo and Metohija and who have generally satisfied both the organisational and personnel structure. It took care of every employee, and now after so many years we know exactly about every health worker in Kosovo and Metohija what their status is. It was a huge job, but the Loncara team has done a huge job in particular in the last six months. The question of all the questions is, where would we be now and what would happen to us to be Gilas? Luckily, I know the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53167	Thank you. Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53168	Dear Members, I just want you not to be nervous about the EU. So you have no reason, I'm just saying, there's no reason. There is no reason because it has its way and Serbia is Serbia's first citizens. What Serbia wants are European values, the values in which both you and I and everyone have just talked about, we seek European good doctors, experts, admit it, admit it, but in order for us to have that, we must have those standards to come to that. That's our ultimate goal. Another thing, as far as the EU is concerned, we EU want all the best. I'm not a man who can be happy when they have problems, not just them, but anyone else. We are closely following what is happening in the EU, but we are not giving up on these European values because it is not because of the EU, it is because of ourselves. Whether tomorrow will be, will not be, will we enter, will we not enter the EU, it can't be a reason why we don't work every day all the more on these European values that are good and that will make Serbia a little better and that it will be better for life and that all of this that you are talking about will be better. You're talking about salaries from the EU and everything, that's where our people go. There they go for a bigger salary, there they go into that system that's just as it is right now. What's going to happen to that system? Of course we'll watch to see. I think they have their own problems. We're too small to be able to influence their problems. Depending on how they solve their problems on us it is to use that time to strengthen us, because if we strengthen, tomorrow they will talk differently to us, then we certainly won't be in this position to keep expecting the EU to tell us – both sides, say these down to the Shiptars, they say – come on, get out of the way, what do you have to tell us? So that's what this is about. Therefore, we are neither small nor naive, nor will we do one single thing to harm the citizens of Serbia. The European Union needs to see what it's going to do with itself and don't worry about it, and we need to use time to do better with us, to sort out the situation with us, to increase investment and employment and surplus, and then to make more wages, and then I repeat, it's going to talk to us differently. And when we're stronger, we'll have even more friends, but those friends who won't abuse us. You know? So that's the point because we'll be able to have the principle of mutual respect. Therefore, Serbian citizens, as far as that is concerned, can be calm. We, we must take care of our citizens in Kosovo, provide them with security, peace, regularly everything they expect from us to get and thank everyone who helps us in this, but Serbia is Serbia's first citizens and we will do everything to make them better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53169	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53170	Mr. Minister, when you say that, and in the context of knowledge, exchanges of experiences in science, free trade in capital and everything, it looks like a beautiful story to be respected, and their so-called so-called. European values. But when they say, don't worry, I have to worry, because Serbia is falling, because all it says and what the conditions are is because it's what the EU wants. I am not just talking about this right now, it was a universal story about the EU's relationship with Serbia. Do I need to remind you how many times this same EU has tried to humiliate us, before opening those chapters of yours on 23rd and 24th, we held a press conference, how the Ustasha Croatian authorities tried to blackmail us and chose them to be some European police officer to determine what Serbia can and cannot do and how these chapters should be opened. You know, that haughtiness and that it's obvious that it's only in their interest to take our territory, that they rule that part, that they install their entire, whatever power you want politically, it simply won't be able to. We warned, I think, in 2011, when Britain was still in full EU membership, one of the biggest haters there, and I forgot its name, it might remember Martinovic after he mentioned it, he wrote a book about how they see Serbia scattered entirely without Kosovo and Metohija. So, it's not something that's just my concern, it's our Serbian radicals, it's also a colleague, and on the other hand, the citizens of Serbia, when they have it all in mind, are asked in the survey, one of the respondents who calls for this random sample and presents it to him with this beautiful side, but when everyone who really is responsible for their country and their people is wondering if you see it with or without Kosovo and Metohija. It's normal to say that it's an integral part of our country, our sanctity, the cradle of Serbia, and it's all going to come to order because those under that name, all of those other values, it's nice, we'll talk about it. I happened to meet the Greek Minister of Ecology today, because he was with this minister of ours here, so, well, we met, normally, what I'm going to say to a man, because he is also a friendly country that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija, and the heritage of some European values, but they also felt on their skin what this blackmail policy means, them economically, us just because of our geostrategic position, and that is not a conspiracy theory, but the truth that everyone knows. The Chinese know that, too, and the Russians know that absolutely everyone who stands in our defense that this is the goal of the European Union here in this space.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53171	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Health Protection Law You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53172	I have intervened on behalf of the parliamentary group only in one word in this Article 1 and 1 the position of that member who speaks what is being arranged, in which way the matter is arranged in this law and stands with you in the proposal: "and other issues of importance for the organisation and implementation of healthcare". We have suggested that it be: “Organization and effective implementation of health care”. We can't see, we find it strange why it wasn't accepted, because there's really no harm in the text of the bill. Who can be bothered to suggest that we want and legally, the law requires the implementation of health care. Speaking of effective health care, we spoke a little before, these two laws will continue to intertwine. I don't think it bothers anyone. We were talking about waiting lists. There's still a waiting list and there'll probably be more, depending on which area, less or more, but there's a possibility, a way to solve this problem as soon as possible. You need to level out private and state practice, as it seemed almost impossible at first, and now it works perfectly, when it comes to pharmacies. When it was before, there was only one pharmacy that said it - you can pick up medicines here and you can put them on the prescription, and now everyone, or almost everyone, is doing it. Of course, they refund funds belonging to private practice, and you should do the same when it comes to the private and state practice of doctors. In this way, you're going to completely reduce waiting lists, because for cataract surgery, you're still waiting for about two years or so, in state hospitals, at least that's how the media writes, I haven't had the opportunity to personally, but in private clinics it ends up as soon as it's gone and it's paid, I don't know how much, but it's quite expensive. You know how much this operation costs at the state hospital and how much it costs at the state hospital to cost at a private clinic, by paying off those funds to a private clinic from the fund. Of course, then it has to be something more, because they have to make money, why would someone private open a clinic, an ambulance, a hospital, I don't know what, if there's no profit. It's normal to have. We are, the previous law mentioned voluntary health insurance that has to do with it, which we didn't get to talk about much, and neither did you, just mention it. You haven't processed it at all, it's completely unclear in this whole law what that voluntary health insurance means. What does someone get if they pay monthly, etc.? It's not well done. Perhaps it would be better if you hadn't predicted this in this law until it was settled, until you had clear views on how it would work. We cannot bring our people, our citizens into such an unequal position. Of course, one who pays for voluntary health insurance should have some higher quality, but not in purely medical terms, can't be operated, because he has voluntary health insurance, should be operated on by a gallbladder. Whoever has voluntary health insurance, we will operate on him, and whoever does not, let him suffer until his bile breaks, until God gives him his death. That kind of difference can't exist. So, whoever has voluntary health insurance can have that luxury of being alone in the room, having a TV in the room, etc. What's purely about treatment can't be in any advantage of that someone who has money, so he can pay, and this other guy can't. So this is completely undefined in the law itself. This is really an idea we're offering, not just to think, but to see in the field of expertise, to see it evenly in the field of profession, private and state practice. We told you the case, the pharmacy. At first, it seemed to be with pharmacies as an impossible mission, and now it's working nicely. They've got the supplies they sell at that price they sell, so they make a good living, but anyone can come and buy, pick up the prescription medicine. It must also work when it comes to private and state medical practices.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53173	Mr. Lonchart has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53174	We did everything you said. So we have contracts with 17 private clinics for cataract surgery, because there's the biggest waiting list. For a couple of years, at least three years minimum, 6,000 operations a year we've already paid the clinics to do it. Now let me tell you what the problem is. We've closed the contracts, secured the material, everything. Now we invite citizens to leave next week for two weeks in a private office to operate, and the citizens say – thank you very much, we don't want to, we want to operate at the state clinic. And how much do they have to pay? Zero, don't pay anything. We paid for everything. And this citizen knows that? That's right, he knows everything. What you suggested, we did everything. It exists, you can take every day to check, give you the exact number of people we call and they won't leave to operate in private practice next week. We have contracts with gynecological clinics for out-of-body fertilization, thousands and thousands, so they don't wait in state institutions to go to private clinics, and the second and third attempts and increase the age limit, they're all the things that already exist. Let me not tell you about the contracts for the hyperbaric chamber. All the things that exist we've already done, what you've been talking about. Remind me, what was the next thing? (The Faith of Radeta: There was an additional insurance policy. Do you know what "additional insurance" means? If the state pays one wheelchair for a disabled person or one brace, then you have the right to pay for someone else's better than you want. That's all it means, and you can't get in over the line or anything else. It's never existed before. Either you could accept what the state gave you, or you could pay for it yourself, there was no possibility that the state was refunding the part that it was already paying you. You want something better, you want something else, you now have the opportunity to pay off what the state has provided you. You don't want that and that's the state, you want something, it's just that. That there's no mistake, that someone who has some extra insurance that paid that package to want something better, that they'll be able to go over the line sooner or later, has nothing to do with it, just this. Don't make any mistake, it's got nothing to do with it. I mean, literally, that's it. And this is another problem. We have private contracts, but the patients want to go to state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53175	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53176	I don't make any mistake or want to, but on the contrary, I want it to and I wanted it to be explained that there are certain things being said in public. What you're saying about voluntary health insurance, it's not exactly stated in the law. You may think so, but it's not exactly in the law. So that's why I emphasized it. When it comes to private practice. You said it was a private partnership in cataract surgery, in out-of-body fertilization and hyperbaric chamber. When it comes to out-of-body insemination, there's no problem, they go to private women, where they get their turn. For what? Because it's been promoted, unlike cataract surgery, because it's not known in public that cataract can be operated at a private clinic and that it's not particularly paid. Every patient finds out, like you said, when you're giving him directions. But you know when it's not promoted enough then there's trust and fear in patients, there's still a lot more trust in state hospitals and state clinics, and let's do that, you work to make it better, but I'm saying it has to be promoted. This is interesting to me for the hyperbaric chamber you said. The information we have is that in a hyperbaric chamber, for example. There can't be a Pyrot patient in Zemun because there's a hyperbaric chamber in Nis. Right? That's my information recently. I personally did something, someone was asking something, and I got such information that RFO wouldn't allow it, if anyone had to go to a hyperbaric chamber, they had to turn to RFZO, and then they said, and you can't go to Zemun, you're going to New Sad, here or there. Just this, information for you. I don't think that's exactly what I'm being told, but obviously there's a problem or it's been regulated like that. Here's it for the associates to see that you solve that problem if there is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53177	Thank you. My colleague Sarovic, on what grounds. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53178	Mr. Minister, this sounds amazing to me that you said you didn't want to go to cataract surgery at private clinics. I'm not saying it's not true, but it sounds amazing to me. You're now acting in a vacuum. You said a moment ago, and the facts cheer us up, that 12,500 employees at the Ministry of Health of around 100,000 employees were employed, that 7,150 specializations were allocated in some period. There are encouraging data, but you still have, or we in Serbia still have huge problems. We're missing specialists, even the nurses are missing. I'm not sure what I'm going to say, but they say the VMA nurse became a prequalification. I'm a layman for this area, but somehow it doesn't sound normal to me that there's some kind of requalification in health care. You know, I don't mean when it comes to specializations, subspecies and stuff. Maybe this information isn't even accurate, maybe it wants to lower our health care. One thing is absolutely correct. Mr. Minister, primary school students learn German. They don't have it on a regular basis. You know why? He's going to go to med school. They want to go abroad. Students too. Now we're acting, or you're acting out of a vacuum space where things aren't done, and that's how we're going to find that infidel. Well, it's not exactly true, I wouldn't say they're worse in private practice than in state. I wouldn't go to that division either, you and I. No one responsible would share that. I have to tell you when it comes to our doctors, there's nothing behind the world's best. Maybe the problem is equipment, maybe the problem is some other experience, but otherwise knowledge and desire. We have a doctor in Serbia who doesn't leave the O.R. until the last need for surgery is complete, not looking at it for an hour or for work hours. And we have to use this the better way. Otherwise, I don't know if this is accurate information that someone asked a cleaning lady in a health care home or a hospital to join a SNS or if she's going to stop working. He didn't ask for a minister, but we suspect if there's some kind of centralization, in that sense, that it's not that we've ruined everything. You know, an officer, an administrative worker, doesn't matter, can be conditioned to be a member of a particular party. Doctors, health workers, should not be subject to such restrictions, but only to discipline and desire. You know, it takes someone to love this. Now young generations are determined to study, or to study for health care, I mean nurses and technicians, because of the possibility of going abroad and making a better living, the question is whether everyone likes it. In an earlier period, medicine was studied or attended to the high school of medicine by the one who loved tomorrow and was involved in the team, not asking how much money he would earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53179	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53180	Please, just so that we don't bring things in, before we've concluded contracts with private clinics, specifically cataract operations, we've made sure that they absolutely have the ability, that they have the equipment, that they have everything that's necessary, that they have everything that exists in the state institution, that they don't make a contract and that we send people that we haven't convinced ourselves that it exists. So don't bring it in. We are, in addition to being the best doctors, who have completed college employment up to 160 and every six months we hire new ones, we give specializations, doctoral dissertation, we have made a deal with high-school medical schools, we are all the best ones who finish high school and school which gives us that they were the best students in the generation, we automatically take them all and hire them. It'll be now and since June, and we'll be hiring by June when they give us the list now from the previous generation of last June that they finished and we'll hire them all. What you're talking about for specialization, just before I told you, we gave that number, 7,150 specializations, but we're not even the first ones we gave four and a few years ago, they haven't become specialists yet. Do you need time? It takes you five years for someone to become a specialist, to go all right, not to take a break, not to go to maternity or anything else. It's a factor of time, which you have to wait for and only then get a result, because it's a process that lasts, and we inherited what we inherited, that no specializations were given, that we had doctors over the age of 55, that are inevitably going to retire and so forth. That's the essence of the story, I think it's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53181	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? ( Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53182	We asked to delete this member, Mr. Minister, because it is understood that the funds for financing health are provided by law, by including two other laws, the Budget Law and the Budgetary System Act. We thought this was too high, because the Constitution itself determines that Serbia's population's health is being financed from the law. This is now an opportunity to potential some other areas of this law that we wanted to talk about, but there was no time. I mentioned something in the principle debate. As for supplemental work, you were not precise, you were precise but it says so – how did you imagine it existed in practice? Here, now we have a situation that some of the homes of health are completely devastated. You tried to recover them, but some didn't, the blockades were up to 15 days ago, and the blockages of the Kragujevac Clinical Center, and you didn't react, the long account was blocked. What's left in local self-government, you'll only see now that it's passed on to your jurisdiction. We believe, we, the Serbian radicals, that a strategy should be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, we specifically called and wrote – the development of health care. There's more. I can't say this ministry hasn't adopted those different strategies, but the ministry. Have you seen from this debate, here, we are the main opposition party, the only real opposition, and not those who have left the Assembly, many of them appear as some parties who have not participated in the elections and are working against the interests of the state and the people, so we really want to approach every business as an opposition, of us you have heard in this debate on amendments, and in the principle debate, I believe, quite a lot of good ideas. Because we're the voice of the people, we're talking to people, which Mrs. Radeta says, if you bring back this nurse and solve these cases that can't come to you, because not every citizen can talk to you, everyone with problems, that's going to mean a lot. But think about it, isn't it good to talk about how we can find more resources? We get the budget within the legal deadline. But we couldn't discuss the budget adequately, in the sense that it was a special item of the agenda, so that we, Serbian radicals, could make all our remarks, once was an expert in writing amendments to the budget, all our remarks on the items, write amendments and say. The Faith of Radeta: It is forgotten, my Arsic. We've always done that. There are more MPs here to confirm that. Since the existence of the Serbian Radical Party, we have always, on a federal level, and at a republican level, sought out what these are where we can reroute for health care, above all, and then for the military and the police. We believe that these are three basic pillars of society that need to function and make up state and people. There is a strategy on public health and youth health, but this, how will it develop in the future? Because the law has given a clear framework, and Serbia must be defined for what is its priority in the area. I'll talk later, when the next amendments are made, and about how to speed up that public-private partnership even more. Yeah, you're right, but I think there's people out there who are scared. A lot bigger should be. You show up, you're the minister. Talk - Serbian citizens, you can execute, we have 17 clinics, here, here and there, it's the same, don't be afraid of anything. Because, you know, people kind of resent everything that's new and doesn't know, it's normal for a Serbian citizen to be afraid of it. He says, "No, it's safer for me there." And here's where great and professional people work, and I'm not going to make a commercial right now. It's a good thing it went that way, but I followed what the president of their association said. They even praised the owners of private clinics and offices. It's a good legal framework, but even more so, by inviting these people, they must be involved. And when she spoke to a colleague, she didn't just think about these clinics, but she meant other offices, which should be determined to make a deal with you to normally get money without the citizens waiting so long for various specialist reviews.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53183	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53184	Thank you. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic raised one question and I think it is essential for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and these are health homes, because the majority of citizens benefit from the service, as far as health care is concerned, from their homes of health. Since the health homes have so far been in public ownership of local self-government, they will now be publicly owned by the Republic of Serbia. It's not so important for the citizens, or for the patients, whose property they're going to be in, but what effects we have from it. What I see, although I'm not from this profession, I think this is a better variant, primarily because the better effect and providing health services will be, because there will be a number of professionals, doctors, who will be able to provide a service to the patient, and not like so far, it has been both procedures and difficulties and in different places. Further – responsibility. It is very good that the vertical was established, which is known to be a health center, if I understood it all well, where it will be a home of health. So there's a vertical management, and there's a vertical funding. And that's all in one place. It's something that makes one responsibility, and I think it's also more of a quality. Because the surrogate has not proved to be something good anywhere, as so far the health homes have been, state or ministry are paying for salaries, everything else local self-government, a certain part of the material costs and investments and the management and management system. That didn't quite add up. Somewhere that went wrong, it didn't work out, and I think this is a better variant for patients and citizens in general. I will set an example where I come from, from Koceljev Municipality, and if that is what it was before, and it will likely be, the General Hospital of Sabac will become a health center, which will include health homes in Šapec, Bogatic, Vladimirs and Koceljevs. In this whole circle, let's say, the House of Health of Kocelev will be the farthest from the Sabac Health Center. This is an average area of about 50 kilometers [50 km], and that is why a network of health care institutions should also take care of these most remote health homes compared to health centers, so that these health homes may get more medical hospitals or as it is called, so that citizens would have the opportunity to have that first health care service, so later, if there is a need, to go to the hospital as well. Furthermore, perhaps where there has never been an ambulance before, I'm talking about these remote areas, and especially remote from the health center, that simply, as with me, let's say, Kamenica and Svileuva, they have hospitals. He's got Lower Black and Darlings. It's simple, that the network plan when it's done to take care of it too. Next, I heard today, maybe I didn't read the moving pharmacy. I think it's a very good thing and it's going to be worth a lot, especially in the country and the old part. Further, distance from the health center, and also from the home of health, but primarily from the health center is in direct proportion to the cost of the patient. The cost of leaving and arriving, and the cost of staying there at the cost site, the length of waiting for transport, etc., so simply, is this 50 kilometers, as foreseen here, is that the right measure or is that 40, let's say, etc. It's probably what someone measured and suggested, but it just needs to be seen in practice how it's going to show, so eventually it's going to change. There's something that reduces the cost of these laws. It's, like, 30 days before the doctor could give up sick, now it could be 60 days. It doubles the costs for whoever used that kind of sick leave, because he had to go to the commission after 30 days, so he had to make the costs, lose days, etc. Further, referring to hospital treatment, so far only a selected doctor could do so, and now a specialist who is located right at the health center, or hospital, and so that part, one day of the patient’s costs, is simply reduced costs for the patient. So, there are these improvements and I think this is a good law. It's probably going to show that part of it might need to be corrected, but I think this is just fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53185	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53186	Thank you. We have suggested, Mr. Minister, that family be included in the social care of health. So, an individual, an employer, that's it, but the family as the important and most important cell of society for the care of a man, because we also think that a few laws that concern family are just pointing us to her and how she should play a role, and that's why we put that word. Here's why. I am also a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and within that Committee, which was formerly the Commission, we are concerned about the health of children in the family, both in the family of biological parents and in foster families, in those who adopted those children. We talked about it a few days ago. That's exactly what a colleague indicated when she proposed to amend and supplement that law and there could be all kinds of abuses, you know, especially in foster families. Then why would that term, when it's most important for the preservation and mental health of every single individual and only a born child and people at all, not be brought into the law? For this reason, we have proposed that you do not think that we are correcting something else, because there is a family care sector in the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Now, if anything like that, I haven't been able to find out, there's one within the Ministry of Health, I don't really know, but what needs to be improved now, since you've returned these health homes to your jurisdiction, it's within the service of a patronage nurse there exists also as a sector, so correct me if I'm wrong, a service that deals with family care. It's a concept that should get close to the citizens, especially the old and the sick for their safety. When we talked about these laws, especially this in the principle debate, I presented a data that is true that over 20% of our population are old people and this demographic image of our society, unfortunately, cannot be repaired so quickly. In order for them to have that option, because, you know, many old people are sometimes left behind from their loved ones and don't care about them, what they need, if they put this accent on the family and make a commitment to these and other laws when it comes to human health, and how we think a new security would be poured in, and at the end of the rights and obligations arising from that law. When it comes to employers that you have made clear here, Mr. Minister, many of them, and in particular private, provide only a health book. And you know it. There are no other conditions for treating these people, so we've had all this happening on construction sites, which is really scary, in supermarkets, fast food stores, etc., where people are left to mercy and mercy. In the end, in the cafes, in the catering facilities. You know, there's got to be a bit of a sadist with you, 'cause that's that man's health back at work. This can't just be a labour inspection to see if they're registered or not, but whether they're accounted for, prescribed equipment, everything that threatens them? We've had various situations, indeed. We still have the Lapov case, right, where it's openly suspected that a foreign company in a populated place is moving nuclear waste. Therefore, we must be very serious, as a society, to devote ourselves to all these problems from one end to the other. Despotovic was talking about a dump at the entrance to Prepolje. All of these are some things that directly affect the health of a man. That's why, first of all, we put an accent on the family, and then these employers, and individuals who do it, consciously or unconsciously, must be more stringently sanctioned, because human health comes first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53187	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(5), trying to specify one fact. This is about asking for a precise determination that the Republic of Serbia must provide health institutions, whose founder is, and the means to carry out obligations under executive court decisions, and for all obligations not financed by the means of compulsory health insurance or otherwise in accordance with the law. You know very well that there have been different examples throughout Serbia, bad and free to say the non-domestic business of some health institutions. We've had cases of blocking accounts, various others, and that's something that puts the entire health system at risk, that's its parts, and the way it's going to be provided to end-users. I think that you, as minister, would also have to do much more as planned for these executive judgments against health institutions, whose founder of the Republic to be less. How are you gonna do that? By conducting a selection that the disputes will be conducted. You know that there's this system in the state that always goes to the end, that the state is judged to the end, that sometimes it takes a really long number of years, that there's an unwarranted cost increase, and that sometimes it has to be cut. The big problem, I know, since I've been working and in the judiciary is that it's extremely difficult to determine the doctor's responsibility and that's something that's almost never been recognised. It is very difficult to find doctors who will artificially testify against other doctors, and it turns out that besides that we have both excellent experts and people who do quality work, it turns out that only in Serbia are doctors absolutely infallible and it may be even harder to prove in court than corruption in ministers. It's easier even the minister to condemn both in public and anywhere else than individual doctors. There are doctors who are dishonest, there are doctors who are a disgrace to their profession and I lead against such a few procedures. I know how hard it is to deal with such things through the institutions of the system. You, as minister, must show willingness, to fence yourself against such people and to make it clear that those who do not comply with the ethical code that obliges everyone, that they are a weed and that they should not deserve and enjoy any protection from the institutions of the system. A particular problem, of course, the courts of honor, I've had a chance to get acquainted with the court practice of theirs, where, for example, The doctor, where it was established, was an ambulance doctor, determined by the court of honor that he had violated the procedure, that it was the result of the death penalty, whether he believed it or not, was a warning. So, it's the least sanctioned, there's a possibility of fines for months, there's a possibility of even withdrawing a license. Instead of being held accountable in such a case, he was warned. It's things that discourage people from complaining at all about what they're experiencing inside the health system, and you're the one who has to send exactly the opposite message and say that you're on the side of a patient, not those corrupt doctors who do the most damage to the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53189	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53190	There's no dilemma, I don't think there's anyone who can justify any doctor who soils a white coat, simply, I'm convinced that there's a minimum of 98% of those doctors who actually do their job, but there are also those who don't. I just want to remind you, you can check it out, I don't remember that at some point more doctors were processed and that they got, that you say they weren't convicted, they were sentenced to both prison sentences and everything else. You can check that, go back one, two, three years, you'll see. I don't think that was the case in the past. Of course, I'm not happy about it, but the judiciary is independent and probably based on facts and evidence. The second thing, what you mentioned about the payment, there's no problem with the Ministry of Health paying if it was found to be a mistake and a lost process, to be paid. There's another thing, when it comes to paying what the state already paid once, and the irresponsible management of the facility, home of health, or some other health care institution didn't put that money where it should, didn't pay the drugs, didn't pay anything else, then they went up those costs, and it came to court and now it needs to be paid. By law, by the Constitution, I don't know what, you can't pay the same thing twice, and whoever did it doesn't have it anywhere. He worked, he worked, he did it all, well, now we're setting an example by, well, that's what the state is going to pay again. We can't, we can't do it by law. For these other things we don't have any, it says, the Ministry can, if it's about these things that he lost in court, anywhere, about a mistake, about anything else, but what hasn't already been paid out of the state budget. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53191	Thank you, Minister. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53192	I thank you, Chairman. I must start by saying that it is difficult to clean up from corruption literally all spheres of life, which means when I speak all spheres of life and the functioning of institutions among which institutions are in the fields of health and education and judiciary etc. In that direction, I could agree with my fellow MP and colleague in the profession Nemanja Sarovic, that there are really these problems that he points to, but we have different approaches in these problems. Since the special department of the D.A. which deals exclusively with corrupt crimes is open, examples from the court practice that I'm familiar with in the profession I'm dealing with, therefore, with the attorney's office have been such that lately a large number of doctors have been processed precisely by a special department dealing with corrupt crimes. Whether it's about taking bribes, misusing official positions, or any other crime, in any case, citizens need to know there's a lot of them. A special group of crimes are the crimes a colleague of Sarovic pointed to, and this is the unconscious treatment of the patient. The fact is that in order to establish the existence or absence of criminal liability, the court must commit itself to the findings and opinions of the experts. Again, the fact that this finding and opinion must be carried out by a professional competent or institution or by a natural person engaged in art, who is a sworn judicial expert, is on the record of judicial skills with the Ministry of Justice. The fact is that the top of the pyramid is a judicial-medical committee at the University of Belgrade Medical Faculty that deals with art. We have a situation where it is determined that there has really been a breach of a certain material and legal regulation and who then fits, Your Honors Minister? In principle, objective responsibility corresponds to the state. Why? Because the doctor will be in full responsibility with the State, or the Ministry of Health, because the lawsuits are generally filed. That's why the health center in Uzica, from which I come, is burdened by a huge number of cases, by a huge number of judicial decisions that are just leading to a situation of total financial collapse and the inability to settle some obligations in a way that will settle. Where's the biggest load? Again, the burden at the Ministry of Health, i.e. in the state, because the state must cost these costs, unfortunately, to cover and again in practice everyone calls for the principle of objective responsibility. I don't want to, nor have reason to suspect that there is an extraordinary effort and the Ministry of Health and you as a minister that all of them, to call them adverse phenomena, are removed, but unfortunately there are and will always have them, because criminal responsibility is an individual responsibility and it is never known whether and whether the most professional and the most incompetent will do something incessant or concisely illegal that has the mark of a crime. What's the big deal? The important thing is to always closely monitor situations that pose risk situations when it comes to possible adverse consequences and always react preventively to eliminate these dangers from adverse consequences. I know by Uzica that you do it and that you've done it many times over and over and you've reacted. And that's why I think it's the only way, and I say, I agree with Nemania in that direction, the only time to root out a monster that, truthfully, is hard to root out not in Serbia, but in the whole world. There is no state on the globe that is not burdened with a problem called corruption, but we are reducing it to the smallest possible level, the smallest possible degree. I hope that's where the fight will continue and the results will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53193	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53194	In this bill, the law is somehow given to the health care authority, so it is said in the first place of the state, the second place of the autonomous province, the third unit of local self-government, then the employer and finally the individual. I personally think that an individual could have been in both the first and the last place, because as you, Mr. Minister, said yesterday, it seems to me, a successful treatment is only what is revealed in time. So an individual would also have to pay a lot more attention not because he wants to or won't. This is something that can't be left in the hands of an individual, because it costs a lot both the state and everything else. And for this reason, because of this strength and importance in the health that we need to take care of, we suggested that in Article 14 and preventive medical examination work once a year, where it would be mandatory for the employer to organise it, at his request, of course, with his payment. You know why a regular, comprehensive annual review would be important? Just before or during today's day about a few things the ministry is doing, so we came to the conclusion that citizens of Serbia or patients are not familiar with these good sides of care about their health. It's easier from the level of organization, and the employer is more organized than the individual. In particular, we should bear in mind that we also have a large number of companies that employ a large number of workers. When I say a large number of workers, I think from a hundred, maybe up to 1,000, and if a foreign company is, now I think of a foreign company, ready to receive all subsidies that move on one employee and up to 10,000 euros, and even more, then it, for the sake of this social, and for the sake of health protection, has the responsibility to take care of the health status of employees, not only to be more effective in the performance of its work obligations, but that our nation also has better health. Surely, with everything that exists as a problem, the state of health of our nation is not exactly at an envious level. This depends not only on what the state will do, invest or not invest, whether they are affirmative or not, but simply here there is much left to an individual and an individual is not organised as an employer. You said the law provided for otherwise, so the SRS intervenes once a year with a comprehensive medical examination of the employees, on the orders of the employer, should carry out those checks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53195	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19th of the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53196	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing these medical laws are on the agenda, certainly the most sensitive areas of social action, because human life and health are the uncut right of every man. It's about the health of the people, and it's a national responsibility, because it's also a health condition of life. In health care, we don't have to go after Europe, we have to go parallel with it. Instead of coughing, we have to go to events, because people's lives are at stake. We wonder, Mr. Minister, what is the situation in our health care? This area is affected by many objective and internal problems, including the most pronounced vanity, then career abduction, the problems of the choice of doctors, getting specialization and subspecies, disdaining colleagues from other health institutions and centres. From objective problems in this area, I would single out, for example, the most important, inability to obtain housing for medical staff, underpaid and inadequate conditions, not everywhere, for work, and especially smaller environments. That's why people in this profession are the first to leave this country, and our health professionals are highly appreciated in the world, and here I don't just think about doctors, of course, I mean all medical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53197	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53198	I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. I think there's a lot that could have been heard and there's a lot that's going to be done, it's going to have an effect. In any case, all Serbian citizens and all patients will benefit. As far as the situation is concerned, the situation of what the citizens say, most importantly, is getting better. The collapse of Serbian health has been halted for 30-40 years. It stopped and started moving forward. There's still a lot to be done. Simply, it's a system, it's a massive system, it's a living system that changes itself, literally, from month to month, not a little longer. Is he gonna be okay? It'll be good, it'll be even better if we get the policy out of it, if we leave it to people who are trained to do it and if we try, which is up to us, everyone from our place and with our opportunities, to make our contribution, to support these people to work in the best possible conditions and to, of course, make them pay. I don't want to lie to anyone. I don't want us all to get carried away. We all know how real things are. Simply, the doctor's departure process is something that happens all over the region, all over Europe, all over the world. There's always a country that can give better conditions. Doctors go from Germany, too. From Germany they go to Switzerland, from Germany they go to Emirate, they go to Kuwait, Sweden. So they go where they get better conditions. We can't stop this process, but we can certainly do some things to slow it down, and what's most important is that you know what we're fighting for, what's our goal, which is that our system disappears, disappears, to stop, not to stop. EU countries, Croatia, which had to suspend hospital work because they did not have enough nurses to maintain the process of work. The same country has an open competition for over 150 doctors. No one's answered for three years. Our goal is not to let it happen to us, to do all that, to make the system work and to work, each one of us in his jurisdiction, to make it even better. What I insist on, and we can all do, in order for this system to work, to be better, must be the attitude of health care professionals and patients to improve. It's the basis of everything, that there's an understanding. When there's an understanding, there's no problem we can't solve. Please keep that in mind. Thank you all for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-29-0.u53199	We'd end this with today's debate. We'll continue Tuesday at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice and an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, a colleague of Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
