ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58417	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to refer parliamentary questions to the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic and Mrs Brnabic, as Prime Minister. Recently in Belgrade, US congressman Elliot Angel, who is otherwise known as the greatest lobbyist in the US Congress for Independence and Promotion, was present. An independent Kosovo. Given that Mrs. Brnabic and Mr. Vukic presented him in Belgrade as our partner and friends of our people and the state, and that we know that Mr. Angel's attitude has not changed towards Serbia and the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, I could only conclude from this that there is some agreement, i.e. The understanding of the government's views and the work of the US Congress is actively working to promote an independent Kosovo. We didn't hear that from the president of the Republic when he was in the National Assembly, when he filed the Kosovo Report. That's not what we heard from Mrs. Brnabic, but we heard him visit our country as an American congressman. We can understand when some anti-Serbian elements on the political scene of Serbia, among journalists, among university professors, are among the so-called. Activists of NGOs are working on the affirmation of an independent Kosovo in Serbia and are mostly doing it for money, as well as everything they have done during their careers, and that it has been directed against Serbia and the Serbian people, such as Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Canak and various others from that mile away, but I don't know whether we should now identify some government members or some government members in Serbia with them on Kosovo and Metohija issues. If we already know, according to the President of the Republic, that KIM is a burning question for our people in this century. How then we can find understanding with some who come from abroad, and do everything that is directed against the Republic of Serbia, its sovereignty and territorial integrity and the promotion of so-called. The republic of Kosovo, which today serves as one base of the US Army and NATO Pact in Europe, in the Balkans. Bearing in mind that the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament yesterday said at a discussion of the SRS MPs - if you like Kosovo so much that you do not live in Djakovica, we cannot treat the KIM issue as such. I guess there should be a consensus in the Serbian Parliament on the KiM issue, not that we're making fun of what we currently have a big problem with our population, i.e. Serbian and Serb citizens in KIM. We need to take this very seriously and work to keep the Serb community in KIM as long as possible and to help them in every way possible. How we do all this because of Serbia's imaginary membership in the EU, and we have heard from Commissioners for the Neighbouring of Johannes Han that without accepting that genocide has been done in Srebrenica, and as you know about genocide cannot be blamed for individuals or organised groups, but only by the state, there is no membership in the EU, I think that in the Serbian Assembly, in the same way as we have discussed the report on Kosovo and many other things, we should open the debate on the continuation of Serbia's European integration and finally take a stand on this, but seeing realistically and soberly all the facts that stand before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58418	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58419	Thank you. I ask my first question, Ana Brnabic and Agriculture Minister Branislav Nedimovic. I ask – why did it take 13 months for the Agrarian Payments Authority to process the demands of farmers who refund the costs of buying agricultural machinery from the state competition and another seven months to send money-paying solutions? So, all of this procedure usually takes 20 months, and people get paid, or wars come in the meantime. Is this because it is the obligation of the state to pay off the money within 21 days, after sending a solution by law? Farmers claim that this is deliberately done slowly and that these items are deliberately delayed for a long time, and without interest, contrary to the case when a farmer, for example, is a farmer. He doesn't pay for the decommissioning, and his tax is immediately charged with a tight interest. Why is the law not the same for the state and for the farmers? So, farmers, even though they don't get that money within a certain time limit, don't get any interest. Also, the state owes farmers milk premiums for both junada and, on various other grounds, money that is late, often up to a year. Also, the state has no obligation to pay compensation. Also, the question – how much is the incentive for tractors paid for 2018, and how much for machinery, how much is not yet paid, why and when will it be paid? I am thinking of 2018, and I am also asking – is there anything left unpaid for 2017, and as regards machinery and tractors? I ask the question I asked last time, as regards the introduction of the Montenegrin language as the official language of the Vrbas municipality, because there were discussions about the fact that Montenegrin language is one, and people speak Serbian, so that it does not introduce Montenegrin language into official use in the Vrbas municipality. The law is very decadent and clear. He does not predict whether anyone speaks or speaks with what language. So, the law only provides for a national-based statement and does not foresee any survey on it. So, the legal condition is the only number of people who are nationally declared according to the last census, and the legal standard has an imperative character. Our country officially recognises the Montenegrin language. Some documents by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, RIK are printed long ago in Montenegrin, and in Mali Ijoš municipality is in official use of Montenegrin language since 2010. Thanks to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, today, in 42 municipalities in Serbia, there are 11 languages of national communities in official use. The only municipality of Vrbas violates the law and avoids the introduction of Montenegrin language into official use in the Vrbas municipality, so I ask when will the Vrbas municipality introduce Montenegrin language into official use in the Vrbas municipality? I ask the third question, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, as regards the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which has come into force and is now suffering from families, pregnant women, mothers, suffering bad solutions that have repeatedly damaged families. I would remind you that five months ago, the Constitutional Court was sent an initiative to assess constitutionality, since it is in violation of the Constitution, contrary to the Convention in the Protection of Motherhood, which brings the poverty of the family in which pregnant women, maternity mothers, entrepreneurs, etc., and families with small children suffer the consequences of the poor resolutions of the law. I'm asking, when will the amendments to the law arrive, which will certainly not be compensated for the damage, but parenting and raising children will be at least a little more carefree?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58420	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58421	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know a few days ago, the visit of French President Emmanuel Macron to the Republic of Serbia was completed. During this historic visit, it discussed very important and important topics for the Republic of Serbia and the relations between the two countries. More than 20 binding agreements, memos, protocols, letters of intent were signed on this occasion. Delegations from France and Serbia signed very important bilateral agreements in the fields of economy, education, military industry. Since Serbia and France already have a signed strategic co-operation agreement, the signing of these numerous agreements tells of the two countries' wish for successful co-operation to continue. France has always been present in Serbia more than 50% of its investments in the Balkans, and it has realised precisely in our country. We can also interpret this visit as a desire for France to position itself as one of the main foreign investors in Serbia's market. Nine economic agreements have been signed. They are the finalisation of some projects prepared years ago, but the start of new projects that are in the interest of both Serbia and France. Agreements that are particularly important for the Republic of Serbia are the energy agreements signed by Minister Antic with a French delegation. Minister Antic says Serbia is making great efforts to improve the electricity sector and that there is a great space for co-operation in the field. I am taking the opportunity to particularly highlight the agreements signed and the protocol on co-operation in the field of waste energy production, wind park construction, geothermal energy use and electricity transmission. I would single out agreements related to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, which are linked to an investment agreed in Vinca, which is implemented by Suez as a co-operant with Japan's Itoca. Today I would like to ask the government and Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, what can Serbia expect from this visit by the French president and signed agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58422	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58423	I thank the chairman. I'd like to ask a few questions in one piece and repeat, and in particular one of these questions is the Directorate for Radiation Safety and Security. It is a newly formed service with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is doing a concrete announcement of the problem where radioactive thunderbolts are. We are witnessing that in the 1970s and 1980s it is for those of us who are old, these younger ones don't even know, the past century when these radioactive thunderbolts were placed in a large part of Serbia where there was a large number of residential buildings. To this day, these radioactive thunderstorms have not been dislocated, moved, and there is a need because there are dozens of such radioactive thunderbolts in the territory of the Low District, where 10, 12 of them are located on residential buildings. The head of the district, Dragana Sotirovska, has potentiated and along with the service asked the authorities to enter the procedure to move those radioactive thunderbolts. I expect that the newly formed Directorate for Radioactive Safety and Security will find the opportunity to find the means to move those radioactive thunderbolts that are located, eight of them are on residential buildings in Nis, there are also in Srlig, there are them in Aleksinac. It would be good to get away from it as soon as possible, if people didn't have a problem just because if those radioactive thunderbolts had moved a little bit, that they were wrong, as they say in our neighborhood, that moment threatens the people, or people. My question is when will it be done and will it be done as soon as possible, just for the safety of all our citizens? On the other hand, there must be a new radioactive thunderstorm, or new thunderstorms that are not radioactive, a new thunderstorm that would protect all these citizens in those buildings they live in. That's one question. The second question is concrete, since we are witnessing that the highways in Serbia are well under way, that the path to Greece has been released, that our Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana, is now located in the territory of southern Serbia, i.e. with his cabinet down in Bela Palanca, where it should continue, where the road to Bulgaria should be done. As long as we are there, while the representatives of the ministry are there, I am sure that this highway will be completed as soon as possible in order to have greater security, more speed and that there will be more passengers coming through our country of Serbia. On the other hand, it would be a good idea that during those days when the Deputy Prime Minister is there, to tour those loops on which to place the payment ramps. On the other hand, I am potential, and I have repeatedly asked to enter the process of completing the road from Malcana loop, which is part of the path from eastern Serbia, where Negotin, Bor, Književec, Svrljig, Zaječar and where a large number of people will now go across that part of the road from Malcana loop to Knjaževacka Street, which is in very bad shape and to enter the reconstruction process. Since Nis is doing a lot of work, there are a lot of streets, boulevards and I would call on the authorities of the city of Nis to get into the process together with the help of our government and the competent ministry, to get into the process of ending this part of the road, from Malcana loop to Književacka Street, and to light up that part of the road, because there is also a zone of industry. I would say one more thing about all those people living in eastern Serbia, that now on Friday from 19th to 21st there will be a Parliament at Kadibogaz, where a large number of people will arrive, more than 20,000 people will be present, where I asked for it last time, because in 2014, a cornerstone was set up to build a border crossing between Serbia and Bulgaria. It's a place near Miniæev, a village called Novo Korito on our side, and that's 51. A parliament that starts on Friday, and I would also ask the authorities if anyone would be there, since we all know that the foundation stone was laid in 2014, when Minister Antic was also a representative of the Bulgarian Parliament, who set up the cornerstone? Will it get into the business of completing that border crossing, because I think it's important for all of us living in southeastern Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58424	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, has the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58425	Thank you. I would just like to add my final question regarding the visit of French President McCron, the issue is for the foreign ministry regarding his statement, which he directly and indirectly speaks of Kosovo as an independent state. I asked the Ministry for a statement on that. He would only complement the question, with an opinion, i.e. by asking for comments, subsequent statements by officials of this government, senior representatives, from Minister Maloga to Mr Nikola Selakovic, who are in their exaltation, visiting the French president, who, of course, has his own meaning, do not want to deny it, then particular emphasis on his willingness to engage in seeking a solution to the Kosovo and Metohija problem. In that light, I ask, why so much enthusiasm, calls and requests, so to the French President, to engage in solving Kosovo and Metohija's problems, if he has told us, in front of our public, what he thinks of Kosovo, as an independent state. So it's a little paradoxical to me with both the Constitution and the official, and here in the Assembly of Things we could hear. My real question or second question goes to the address of the Ministry of Sports, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and concerns the answer to the question I received from the Ministry of Sports regarding the construction of a national football stadium. I asked that question here and the Ministry of Sports made an effort, or minister to answer quite extensively, repeating more or less these reasons that we could hear in favour of building that national football stadium. I am of course troublemakers of these reasons, but nevertheless, there is a mention of the reasons for security, mentioning the need to organise some international gatherings, sports events that require more perfect technical conditions, mentioning the possible benefits of tourism, the development of infrastructure that could be achieved thanks to the construction of the stadium. What is not clear, however, is why I repeat the question, and not only to the Ministry of Sports, but also to the address of the Ministry of Finance, because Mr Mali is also a member of the media, or one of the first people in the inter-resor group to make, so it was announced a month ago, the final decision to build a national football stadium. As previously spoken and interpreted here, I realized that no matter what the funds were defined, as much as 250m euros, the decision to build this national football stadium, in Serbia, was not made, and I then appealed and not to make it, for reasons that are so obvious that neither should be repeated nor explained. Now, however, I see that the press has also published on the UN's website for UNDP development on their site on July 11th, an invitation to collect technical documentation to build a new national football stadium in Belgrade. I say, it's also published in the press, and in, though discreetly, barely visible, there's a UNDP call on the site. In that light, I ask, and it is the deadline of 5 September 2019, when documentation is to be submitted regarding the construction of that national football stadium. Then I ask directly and specifically, Mr. Mali and Mr. Sapic, has the decision been made to build a national football stadium? Is my appeal and some of the public who heard of it, though I would say not enough, some expert public and others, so is our appeals late, is there any chance if the decision was made to be revised and then why is this inter-resor group that needs to make that decision, if it is, as I have already said, a decision made? So the reasons against construction are clear, obvious, and I say here, specifically elaborate them, we can later on on on some other topic, in some other part of the agenda, but anyway, I expect a concrete answer. So, despite the fact that the funds were identified during 2018, it was concluded that it was one of the projects of importance, meaning in July, a year ago, but from everything that was heard and even said here by Minister Mali, in the Assembly a while ago, I got the impression that the decision was not definitive. So, has the decision been made? Is it definitive? So, is there a chance? This is what I appeal to and end, that she recalls, so to speak, my service and a proposal to this ruling majority, because I don't think that this decision will come to the public's approval, even the one that favors the SNS and the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58426	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58427	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I am asking the public prosecutor's office why they did not press charges against the Alliance for Serbia leaders who are in line with Articles 305 to 321. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia violates the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? Explanation. The leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic and other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia met on July 4th 2018 at the Chacan bar "Moravski alasi" in which they made a plan to launch street protests and the ruins of Aleksandr Vukic on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. These moral freaks, instead of tearing down Vukic, should have agreed to bring Kosovo and Metohija back to where they drove him away from. Thus, these moral freaks fell so low that the accident of its own people from Kosovo and Metohija and the Republic of Serbia is used for their own interests. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Vuk Jeremic said on November 30th 2018 without shame and shame that Aleksandar Vukic, quote, a traitorous bastard, has completed a quote. Now you will hear, respected citizens of Serbia, why and who is a traitorous bastard. Let's take the turn. Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international group of thieves and frauds, said in a conversation with US congressman Ted Dol in December 2008, that I quote -- the entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is the best that Serbia should hope for, finished, and thus settled in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Vuk Jeremic, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, requested the transfer of the resolution of the Kosovo problem and of the UN Security Council to the EU, thus bringing the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija, and thus sided with our country's traitors and placed himself in the ranks of traitors. Zoran Zivkovic, former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, said at the International Conference in Vienna in October 2003, I quote -- it is of no importance to me, regardless of whose Kosovo and Metohija, finished the quote, and thus settled into the traitorous bastards of our country. Boris Tadic, in a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, said, quote -- Kosovo and Metohija's independence does not have to mean a loss if the voter's heads are set under the right, a quote is completed. And, to US envoy Wisner, on July 27th 2006, I quote -- he assured himself that he had processed and accepted Kosovo's independence as a result, a final quote. That puts him in line for the traitorous scum of our country. Sergei Trifunovic, who said on January 31st 2019, I quote -- Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not Serbs, has completed a quote, and has thus been placed in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Sasa Jankovic said on 3 August 2017, I quote -- it is in Serbia's interest for Kosovo to enter Interpol, and then recognise Kosovo's independence and thus become a member of traitors. On March 5th 2017, Nenad Canak, as a failed presidential candidate, said, I quote -- I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence, finished a quote, and thus settled into the order of traitorous bastards of our country. On December 13th 1991, Nenad Canak told Lord Carrington that the future of Vojvodina to become an independent state had ended and was secondly placed in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Cedomir Jovanovic said on 29 September 2015, I quote -- the state of Kosovo is an irrevocable act that only irresponsible politicians continue to ignore, finished a quote, and thus settled in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Professor Rade Veljanovski, one of the DOS leaders, called eggs, said on 21 April 2018, quote -- that Serbia should recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence and provide him with a chair in the UN, finished a quote, and thus settled in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Dragan Djilas said on 13 August 2009 in a conversation with US Embassy dispatch Jennifer Bras -- I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic and will give up Kosovo, a final quote, and thus placed himself in the line of eggs, our country's traitors. Here, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while our President Aleksandar Vucic makes superhuman efforts to seek a lasting, fair and compromise solution for our southern Serbian province, so that those of the Alliance for Serbia as traitors violate our country's territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58428	Thank you. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue our work and move on to Search in detail on the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on trade. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings attend: Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boraric and Social Affairs, Vesna Kovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Jovan Stojic, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Milan Dobrijevic, Head of Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Nevena Praizanovic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out the Main Search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. We'll wait just a few minutes until the minister enters the O.R. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58429	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, trade is a good job, especially if you have production. If you don't have the production of goods and services, if you only trade foreign goods, if for foreign borrowed money, if you buy foreign goods for money from the sale of capital, then you'll end up as bad agricultural land. A good farmer looks to produce goods. A bad farmer who doesn't make goods is looking to buy it. If he doesn't have the money, he's taking the credit. If it does not produce, it spends the credit buying goods from those that produce it. When he can't raise his loan anymore, he sells his capital. He sells piece by piece of land, object by object, to finance his needs and that he could trade. Serbia was a poor agricultural land during the rule of the joint criminal enterprise, those who boycott the National Assembly, but do not boycott the salary given to them by the National Assembly. So they're an example of bad hosts. We need to be an example of a good host, who except for what he trades, manufactures, transports, performs services and finances the existence of his population, raises the infrastructure, regulates the debts, these through which we raise the infrastructure, and those that have spent and where they have not created a source of debt recovery, thus increasing the problem of this country. Hoping that we will continue to be the good host, that we will raise Serbia, I have also proposed this amendment, which is almost identical in the text proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58430	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58431	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister, here, we have an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a trade law governing the conditions and way of carrying out trade in Serbia's single market, improving trade and protecting the market and banning unfair competition. I would like to say that I support my colleague Marijan Rističević because, from the reasons for the amendments and from his arguments in the principle debate on the proposal for a law on trade, we see that this is about the desire for the system of trade to be detailed and developed. On the other hand, I have to say that I understand why the government has suggested in its opinion that the amendment be rejected. We agreed yesterday that it's good to talk about today, but it's good to talk about some past times in which the Dossage Authority has done almost nothing for the citizens, no matter what area we talk about. Even today they sabotage Serbia using every moment and as an opposition, which instead of being constructive, they are destructive, trying to collect cheap political points and then decide whether to go to elections or not. I also want to say that I absolutely agree with this finding by colleagues Risticevic that those who boycott are examples of poor hosts. We have a situation that they're not in the O.R. because they have nothing to say when we talk about their unhappiness, but they have nothing to say even when we're talking about the government's results since the government took over the SNS. I've also asked the question here several times in parliament as they come to the sessions to tell us what they did well and positively while they were in power and you know that none of those who need to sit across the street have called us. It seems we won't even get answers to questions, because they're starting to throw MPs out of the party if they come to the sessions and do their job. Imagine what they would do with apolitical citizens or those who do not share their opinion, if their members are intimidated, if they lynch them for example and thus send a message about what will happen if the Alliance for Serbia leaders do not listen. In any case, I believe that satisfactory measures are being implemented concerning the single market and the promotion of trade. About 19% of the total number of employees were employed in the trade, which accounts for about 10% of GDP participation and according to this improvement in this area is very important, but also because of the direct impact on the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58432	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58433	Thank you. I am reporting on Mr Ristic's amendment, because he has said all the things that matter as far as our hosts, our agricultural producers, where I have spoken in the previous period and that our country is headed by our President Aleksandar Vukic in the way good hosts do. We agricultural producers, people who live in both the country and the village, we all know that without production there is no survival, and where production is, there must be trade. As far as trade goes, we've said before that there was a series of things that were negative, that a greater profit has one that buys from our producer, from our peasant than I am a peasant, but on the other hand, we all who are there, who know what agriculture is, who we know how to do it, we want the agricultural producer to have the greatest interest through trade, and that, naturally, he can live normally from his work. We deal with that sentence, as Marian Risticevic himself said earlier, is always said – better produced than introduced. That's what we should stick to. Once again, I will support Mr. Risticevic's amendment, because I think it's the right thing to do, but on the other hand, and the government has explained the proposal, everything she said is supposed to be done, but I think Risticevic is right here right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58434	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58435	We have submitted this amendment, Mr. Minister, because like all amendments, the SRS are in a position to be more precise, to be in the spirit of Serbian language and to be understood for both consumers and traders. It is amazing that Rasim Ljajic, as a legislator of this law, and his associates who have translated this law from some European Union country and have little to do with these opportunities, avoided that, although everyone should know that, every minister in the government, and especially he, that this law regulates trade in general, but also all forms of trade and that it is certainly a law for internal trade. That is why we have submitted the amendment, because this word: "way" means nothing, and the forms of trade – well, that is something else. So you have retail, wholesale, liquor sales, etc. And now we get to it, here's where Risticevic started that story, how that free competition applies to every trader equally. In Serbia, this is impossible because of the import lobby, due to the application of the SPP and the fact that these trading chains cover 95% of our market, there are around 20 of them that have positioned themselves on the Serbian market, of which "Deleze" with the highest participation of more than 30%. This would be unquestionable to protect domestic trade chains and manufacturers on the other hand. It's really true. If you don't have your own product, you're hardly going to break into Serbia's market and have a good profit. What do small shops do where they are mostly members of a family household? They work for the margin, which has to be suited to the ordinary consumer, because daily consumption in Serbia is in a store of little more than 200 dinars, up to even, it says, and it is in ideal conditions, and it is exactly where the urban part of some city is 450 dinars and now a small trader if he gets everything from vegetables and fruit, through the product of "Metro" and other wholesalers, he can hardly survive. You know very well, Mr. Minister, because your portfolio works for employment, that many such shops, although people have enthusiasm at first, unfortunately after a few years, are doomed, because this whole chain of payments, then taxes and everything they have to give to the state is unreachable for them, because they have no product, and these big systems are satirizing them. Then it's really amazing that in this first term, you say that this law should ban an unfair competition, translated unfair competition, which is a staunch term, and on the other hand, we don't even know why we mention it here when we have the Law on the Protection of Competition. You cannot protect our market from unfair competition until customs duties are established to prevent this import lobby from destroying domestic production, domestic products, because we need to recover, first of all, by raising such factories in parts of Serbia, where we have both valuable people and re-promatter for it, the food processing industry. In many cities where it is indeed in that former Yugoslavia, so let me also say for exports across Europe, people are proud of having such factories from the production and processing of fruits and vegetables, to the processing of meat, here in Kragujevac, from which I come the famous "Red Star", not to speak further in Serbia, it is no longer and then small and petty traders are doomed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58436	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58437	I thank you for the constructive debate and for asking that question when it comes to unfair competition. That must be said, because unfair competition exists in several segments. We're talking about unfair competition here, when this law had one completely different essence, it's not about this problem that you've now cited and certainly unfair competition in many ways it's possible to accomplish. When it comes to the Ministry of which I'm headed, unfair competition is where people hire people who don't pay, or they don't have labor contracts, and they have less costs. When it comes to this law, it was primarily a desire here to imitate it, given that over time trade has made some kind of progress, and we need our market to comply with that and, of course, to follow everything that electronic trade requires of this law. What matters is that we protect consumers. Consumers were not protected and you saw that the mass of the measure that we talked about two days ago was precisely in that sense to protect the consumer. The consumer was someone who, in some cases, was deceived, led to come thinking that a product would be, I am now giving only one example, to be sold to him under more favourable conditions, and only when it came, then realize that it was essentially a fraud. Then, there was no clear rule on how and how products are advertised. Each of us was a victim, surely before different frauds when it comes to bombing ads and wrong information and stating that when you come to the scene and you want to buy a product, you actually realize that there is no product, and that there are completely different conditions. It's all been tried to get rid of this bill. I always say, when you have a law in front of you, certainly a desire is to correct certain things, and certainly there will be a need in practice for certain things to be done, but what is our wish, is to edit this system, that there is a clear rule in this system, and then let's see, if we need some fine adjustment, and it will definitely be necessary in the future and then change the law and adjust everything for the purpose of our citizens and consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58438	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58439	Mr. Minister, we will also come up with these parts of the law that you have now mentioned, which is inspection surveillance and we have also considered and you will see in our amendments that these provisions are not the place in this law. We have the Inspective Control Act and it is truly amazing that only newly formed municipal militias, so with the added powers they can treat traders in such a way that they have such powers, I don't have time in this replica to talk more specifically about it. I guess that's the custom of good business, the customer should always be right, that is, the consumer and, of course, anyone who resorts to cheating on anyone should also bear legal sanctions, and also lose their consumers. What's the point here? The point is that Serbia's market is covered with goods from imports, and above all with food goods that can be produced here and how. Is it normal for you, Mr. Minister, to say in the parables, in Kusicu near Ivanjica, tons and tons of potatoes fail every year? We want to talk about the price of cabbage, peppers, anything? Always a farmer who has a plastic, who has fields with these plantations of raspberries, that's just a special question, has to look at the sky first, and then come up with whether or not some import lobby will import from another country, it doesn't matter if I don't mention all the imports of that product, and he throws his own. Who will produce potatoes of the highest quality, and if they had to sell it for five or ten dinars, and if there were these processings and if there were buying centres that, too, should have been specifically defined here by this law, then it would have been easier for the Serbian peasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58440	The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58441	Thank you. I agree with you, but the reason is long ago behind us and at a time when some others were in power, which led to Serbia's lack of small and medium-sized enterprises and led to the collapse of Serbia's economy and we can't talk about it for this short time, I think there would be little and a whole session for that, to talk about everything that was done in Serbia from 2000 to 2012 and probably miss me a lot. But what matters is that we have to change something. Our greatest enemy is time. The government of the Republic of Serbia is working on it, we encourage the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, because small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbones of every economy, so they should be the backbone and Serbian economies and they should be supporting major infrastructure projects, i.e. large investments in Serbia, to make, not import semi-products, but to have semi-products produced in Serbia. I am at your point of view, and we should certainly talk about it openly, because we must not allow that time to return, the time when Serbia did not have small and medium-sized enterprises, but when it imported everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58442	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58443	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we have also made clear in the principle debate under this bill and announced strong support. We will support the law because of all the positive effects this law will produce, and when it comes to the retail sector, and when it comes to electronic trade, but also because of all the results we have achieved, and not only in the area of trade, but also in other areas, and when it comes to the state of public finances, and when it comes to the state of the economy, and when it comes to the percentage of unemployment. I would like to take the opportunity to ask you, Mr. Minister, for some of the latest information when it comes to the percentage of unemployment in Serbia right now, and about other areas, especially when it comes to construction. It is clear from all indications that more is being built in Serbia today than ever before. In May alone this year 1,822 building permits were issued, I speak for Serbia, which is about 6% more than in May last year. Last year was more than last year and so on. Also, the index of estimated working value in May this year increased by 150.4% compared to May 2018, when again, it was more than for the same period before last year. And of course this increase was most affected by the construction of part of the Preljina-Požega highway, as well as the construction of the Bulgarian-Hungarian Master's pipeline, Share 2, but a huge percentage takes up construction of buildings, both residential and non-permanent. In Belgrade only annually, construction permits are issued for over a million squares, three years in a row, which is four or maybe five times more than in some earlier periods, when yellows ruled the city. It's all about a drastic jump on the world's Duing business list, where we hit 11th place from 36th. And these are concrete facts, concrete indicators. Except you won't hear all that on N1. That's not news to them. If Serbia, God forbid, falls for which place on the world's Duing Business List, then it's on the N1 main news, then it's the main theme, then round tables are organised, then various experts are brought in to discuss it. Although I can see that the last few days have run out of these experts slowly, they no longer have a wide range of these experts for everything and everything. I see they've been in charge of some Beshi lately, I think Naim Leo Beshiri. He's their star now. He's commenting on the N1 now. He is now an expert in population policy, he is a security expert, he is an expert in general policy, so he is an expert in foreign policy, etc. Probably that they stayed on vacations, they like to rest for a few months, and the one with the "Steal Week," and that Kesic, and everyone else, take a summer break from a few months to rest. I guess they got tired a lot in the past, I don't know what it is. Anyway, if I didn't spread the story, for all these reasons that I have cited, I would like to express strong support for this bill, but also for all other efforts of the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58444	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58445	You're absolutely right. When something is negative, it's the first news on these TVs and in some daily newspapers, but it certainly speaks more of them, because they're looking for something that's bad in everything. There's nothing that's positive, and there's positive stuff all around them, construction sites around them, but they don't notice it. But it doesn't matter, it's important for Serbian citizens to notice and that Serbian citizens notice it when the elections are. When it comes to unemployment, it is at a record low of 12.1% in the first quarter of this year, some of which is close to one percentage point less than last year. We expect that in the second one, which is always better than the first one, and in the third one, which, by the rule of the second, is close to 10%, perhaps even one-digit, for the first time, which shows that everything the government of the Republic of Serbia does, everything our president does when it comes to employment, bringing investment into Serbia and hiring our citizens, results. We will continue to work, because for them the biggest defeat and the thing that bothers them the most is success and when they see a new crane, that is the biggest problem for them. And we will continue to cause them such problems by hiring our people and making results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58446	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58447	Article 1 requires what is the subject of this law. Among other things, you say -- conditions and ways to conduct trade, improve trade and protect the market, ban unfair competition and control. We thought that's where we should stand - supervision of the application of this law. The Ministry, or Government, doesn't think so. No wonder Serbian radicals and the government don't have the same opinion. But there's something else interesting here. How can we even speak of control over the application of this law, and even of inspection supervision, because you said that this provision also contains inspection controls, even though it doesn't say anything, so let's throw beans and assume so, but who's going to oversee this law? Minister of Resorni, Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister, who must not enter the National Assembly because of the truth that SRS MPs have made about him, because of the truth that Dr Vojislav Seselj wrote, published in his book "New Market King of heroin"? So we expect such a minister to oversee this law and trade at all? It's simply not possible and we've been saying that he can't be in the minister's seat anymore. Mr. Djordjevic, don't get us wrong, we don't mind what you're sitting there. You're a minister in the government, and we think it's normal that every minister can represent every bill, because we assume that this is being discussed in the government and that you know what it says here. So, nothing against you being here, you're a great talker, but we are in favour of reminding the public once again that we have a Deputy Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, who is also the Minister of Trade, who has not been allowed for months, won't and won't enter the National Assembly. There are laws passing in which the signature says that he's the minister in charge and he's gone. Maybe he's afraid we're gonna talk about controlling heroin trafficking here, so that's why he's gone. Tell him, Mr. Djordjevic, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58448	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58449	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is normal and it is good that all the laws, as the minister said, and also some of the colleagues who discussed them, are designed to respond to all the citizens of Serbia and that they are made to make it easier and better for them, but it reminds me of the position of marketing scientific discipline, where it is said – everything is subordinated to the customer and everything that is done, is done in the interest of the buyer. Is it true in real life? Well, it's not. Everything is subordinated to manufacturers, or traders, and we have to be very wise and really harmonize and amend laws and laws so that they are a great help to all citizens. Now what does this time allow us to do? It allows us to develop on the faults of those who were before us everything that they have ruined and neglected. It is a great opportunity for Serbia to develop and process the industry, develop new forms of trade and provide a great opportunity for both working and hiring a part of the population that has these problems. Is that going to be easy? Normally they wouldn't, but they chose us because they weren't good before and they didn't know how to do what they were supposed to do. Regarding this remark by Radeta's colleague that he was supposed to be a colleague here, Rasim Ljajic, I fully agree. Everyone should be where his portfolio is spoken of and the laws of his resources. I hope my colleague Rasim Ljajic is justifiably absent and will be there to defend his laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58450	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58451	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on trade where we have asked for a new position to be added after Article 1 hereafter, I quote: "Inspection of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the Ministry, market inspection and other state authorities in accordance with their powers", explaining that in this article of the Trade Law should be determined correctly and defined by the inspection authority. That trade is a very significant activity with a major impact on the economy, and we see that 19% of the total number of employees are currently in trade, where its share in GDP is about 10%. This figure of around 20% of employees continues to increase, but in large companies, while in micro-economic societies, the number of employees decreases. You can see this from the plane. Someone should say why it's like that and why it's such an approach. A significant growth in the participation of the retail sector should be expected in the future. In a large number of countries there are trends in the stage of maturity, while with us it is at the stage of growth and development. Once again, I will quote: “The trade is a business that records the largest number of newly founded entities, ” but a large number is closed and we wonder what then? Has anyone mentioned, for example, the words “symmetry”, “balance ” and so on? What's the use of a grade like this? The reason for this relationship is that wherever a hyper or mega market is opened, it's going to choke those little ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58452	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58453	Of course, I agree with you that supervision is very important in every segment, even when it comes to this law and it is in Article 45, where the supervisory head provides for how and how surveillance is carried out. I didn't understand why you asked in this particular article, and why here to begin by standing who to supervise when there's an article 45, so if you can just explain to me one more time why here?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58454	Right on line, MP Zoran Despotovic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58455	To make it a little clearer to us, Mr. Minister, when it comes to this surveillance and to stress the importance of this surveillance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58456	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58457	Thank you. Sure, I agree with you, but I think everything, when it comes to surveillance, we'll probably get to it when there's an amendment to the 45-year-old law, and on top of that, where there's a definition of supervision and a concept of supervision. Then we can talk about it. But I think the surveillance is essentially well regulated by this law, I say, in Section 5 and from Article 45, and so on, so we can discuss whether there's any possibility of improvement. I say, supervision is very important to the application of the law, because this law is very important, as I said at the outset, because it concerns our citizens, consumers, which is the essence and reason for the existence of this law. We noticed that in the previous period, and I said so, and when I talked about this law two days ago, that each of us, I think, was a sure witness and a victim so far of abuse of the previous law, or the inability to prevent certain things and be deceived by that, when it comes to either advertising or offering some products, comes into, let me say, the delusion that there is more to what is actually being offered. In order not to, this law, I think, regulate this in the best possible way and I believe that the implementation of this law will improve trade in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58458	Right on line, MP Zoran Despotovic. You gave up. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58459	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, Article 1. The proposal for a law on trade, which is otherwise a roof law, is governed by the subject matter of the law. Article 1 also identifies and apostrophe of a very important and significant role, which is a supervisory role. Of course, in accordance with the methodology of the law-making, the supervisory function of the ministry and all those who oversee the implementation of this law is further developed in one particular chapter. What I want to point out is that trade and that it has a significant share in GDP and trade itself as a business branch participates with 10% in GDP. However, I must make a parallel between the authorities by 2012 and the situation as it is today. Trade as an economic branch and that it has a huge impact on the development of agriculture and on the development of industry. By 2012, a "yellow, tycoon, robbery company" robbed the state of Serbia and committed a true massacre of businesses across all industries at an estimated 100 billion-euro mark. Only from the privatisation process, according to research by the US Institute, 51.4 billion euros. What I want to connect, as far as agriculture is concerned, is that at the time of the "yellow, tycoon, looting company" 91 industrial combinations were sold by 2012. I must point out that in their time 300,000 hectares of land, along with cattle, with agricultural combinations, were sold for 50 million euros. So much today is the annual rent of agricultural land. They, of course, disintegrated the workers. They sold out cattle, of course. The vast majority of agricultural land, later in various ways, went into private hands and thus came through a huge area of building land at a minimum price, at very low prices. Also, I have to point out that today's investments in agriculture are bigger than ever. Also, I must point out that at the time of the SNS government, a combination that has 100 times less land, means three thousand hectares, is sold for 50m euros. So for what the “yellow, tycoon company” sold 300,000 hectares. Therefore, they were fed up and robbed the country by about four billion euros. Of course, they were not interested in “the yellow tycoon company, ” since they left about 600,000 workers on the streets. They still show that they do not care about workers in any way, but today, since they are unable to exercise power, they threaten to insult them in a terazian tunnel and threatened city cleanliness workers on February 24th of this year only because the city's cleanliness workers, after their alleged walk, were cleaning up garbage. This is what they used to do, and this is what they do to workers today who earn their wages in value and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58460	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Belačić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58461	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which reads -- this law applies to all persons engaged in trade in the Republic of Serbia. This law does not apply to the provision of services governed by special law. With my amendment, I propose to replace the word "special" with "other", because this amendment is more precise. We have submitted a number of amendments with the aim of at least technically contributing to the quality of the bill, but unfortunately, we consider the situation to be rather bad for trade in Serbia. As long as Professor Vojislav Seselj was in The Hague, we pointed out the danger of an import lobby, and we launched a campaign all over Serbia against the import lobby immediately after his return, and for the last five years, we are constantly warning of all the difficulties facing our economy and our peasants. We have visited all the places in Serbia, and in conversation with citizens, we have heard that they have major problems due to the suspension of customs duties on goods from the EU, and if you, ministers, are also visiting Serbia, talking to citizens, we are sure that they will tell you the same thing they told us. The fact that our borders are open to goods from the West and the fact that in Western countries producers are subsidized in many ways makes it difficult for our people to work. We believe it is necessary to protect customs domestic production, primarily because of the fact that Serbia gave up half a billion euros by abolishing customs duties and that if customs return, that money could be used in many ways, primarily for subsidising domestic production, but also for investing in increased wages and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58462	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58463	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, here, let me refer to what my colleague Belacic said first. It cannot be replaced with the word "other", because the term special means special law refers to the lex specialis. If the term ‘other’ is used, it does not mean lex specialis. But there's something I'd like to relate to the previous discussion. So, an unfair market game, a term written in this law, is something that every country in the world is fighting against. There is also a grey economy and unfair competition in every country, and it will probably always be. These are two factors that have a negative impact on the economy, and such activities directly affect the damage to the state and the damage to its citizens. Therefore, not reporting income, i.e. avoiding tax payments, not reporting workers, etc. Because of the fact that in this way big money is turned around and, let's say, informally employed citizens still make some income, this is too silently tolerated because it solves some of the social problems. But in the long run, it's very harmful for both the state and the citizens, because the money that the state is losing can be invested in sustainable development, and the citizens are deprived of a number of labour rights. That is why surveillance is crucial in preventing such activities, and it is crucial to report any such occurrences. For these reasons, we daily insist on examining the partnership business of Šolak-Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58464	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58465	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3(1) of the Proposal of the Law on Trade. All the problems and hardships that have gripped us through our history have brought about something positive, which is the ability of the Serbian people to quickly cope and resist all the problems they face. If any other people had experienced what we experienced during the 1990s -- wars, sanctions, NATO aggression, the question is to resist all this. We somehow survived, we found alternative trade routes, and regardless of the sanctions, the goods were enough, if not on the regular, then on the alternative market. It is incomprehensible that we are self-killing in the EU, and it is clear that there is no longer a perspective for long-term members. They are aware of this in almost all EU countries and I am not surprised that they have recently won the national orientation parties. So you're not passing laws just because you're required by the EU. Let's look at our interests, because most of these laws are harmful to us, as well as inapplicable to our terms. Our trade sector can function successfully without this European law, which shows on many occasions on the ground. The state is only asked to prevent a monopoly on the market, and the rest of things will be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58466	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58467	Of course, Mr. Stojanovic, let's not do it because one of us is asking. And that's what our president said several times, that we primarily do something that we do, in the interest of our citizens. The fact that we are looking for the best practice and what once coincides with some EU countries does not talk about us copying or asking us to do so. The best example is the Social Cards Act and what I was talking about. No one asks us to have social cards, and we chose Denmark as the best example of it, and we want to implement it in Serbia, because we think that our citizens should have the Social Cards Act so that we know primarily what we have and what we have in mind and that we know as a country where we have to invest to root out many negative things and that we can't and that we don't allow any negative things to happen, and yet, on the other hand, that our citizens know that the state is doing it in the most just and transparent way, that it works with very little or no administration at all, and that the state where it wants to help out, help out with the spot and in time and that people don't have to prove that they need anything. There are many different things that are completely inappropriate and there is no explanation for them why they exist in our laws at all, but it's up to us to change. I'll only tell you one example. Let's say, in some laws you have an obligation that some people with disabilities, when they know they have disabilities, have to prove for a certain period of time that they still have disability. I've spoken to them, and certainly, it's very difficult to talk to those people who need to talk to them once in six months or a year to prove they still don't have a leg. We all know that this can't happen any wonders, but they have to go to medical exams every year. To get something from the state, they have to prove something like that. It was introduced just at a time when some others, when the yellows were in power and they wanted to get some money and give someone a right, and they made them come every year to give it to them. We want to change that, and that's the point. The amendment of this law is only a change in the sphere of trade. And all that someone brought before and what they let happen, like you said about the various lobbys of the importing and everything else that exists, so look who the import lobby is. You can also name them and identify which parties they belong to. So these are all people who are very close to the former regime. To deal with it, we have to bring something. This is just the beginning of it, and I'm sure we'll root out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58468	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58469	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, this member of the law and law in general, on trade, is a sector that will contribute to the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia designed in 2014 with the exhibition of the president of the then government, and today's President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. These exposures were based on seven letters I. I will show, these are: ideas, investments, institutions, infrastructures, information technologies and integration. The goal was for the Republic of Serbia, whose economy was totally devastated, to design modernisation in all sectors, and this particular sector of trade is extremely important and extremely important. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Djorge Vukadinovic, called Vlah, here in the O.R. today, because in the opening part of his discussion he called French President Emmanuel Makron, citing that he said in his speech at a press conference that Kosovo is a state. We know very well that France has recognised Kosovo and Metohija for the state, but then Mr. McCron was not the president of the state and we know his position. He said he would fight with us for a compromise solution. I am surprised that Mr. Djordje Vukadinovic, called Vlah, has never rebuked his coalition partners, such as Boško Obradovic, on whose list he was, who at a secret meeting on June 13th 2019, in the US Ambassador's residence in Belgrade, admitted the silences to Kosovo and Metohija's independence. At that meeting were all his colleagues, coalition partners. He then did not contradict Mr. Obradovic and his accomplices, Kyle Scott and Matthew Palmer, who repeatedly reiterated that Kosovo is an independent state. This also placed Bosko Obradovic in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm really surprised when it comes to journalists, here we have seen today, that a part of the press is really taking its own freedom and claiming the truth. I advocate, indeed, that the criticism of the authorities is even desirable, but the criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts. There's a huge difference between criticism and criticism. That's how it is, for example. Journalist Congradi today said that, quote, Republika Srpska is a genocide, without arguments, without anything, etc. So I really can't believe it, and she put out the thesis that Mr. President of the State is Alexander Vukic is a dictator. Indeed, I call on this journalist to reason, not to be an ordinary dilettante, but to criticise her, if she wants to criticise the government, based on facts, and to claim to the Republika Srpska that she is a genocide, only one who has come down from his mind can. It can best be explained by Mr. Rancic for such persons. I really don't understand that this journalist can claim so, especially for the parliament here and the MPs. I'm undermining again, I am for criticism and authority, but based on the facts. Criticism is based on it, not debauchery, on half-truths, lies and fictional facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58470	Thank you. Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, under the CEFTA agreement, have positive trade balances with the former Yugoslav republics. While Mr. Atlagic was already talking about Republika Srpska, the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina reportedly led the BiH Army, Ali's Army, for multiethnic Bosnia. Today, Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only multiethnic territory of Republika Srpska, which it wants to declare genocide. The people who lost half their population in the 20th century are victims of genocide, not genocide. Republika Srpska rests on 30,000 lives. We're not trading with those lives. Republika Srpska is a resistance to ethnic cleansing, not ethnic cleansing. Republika Srpska is a multinational republic to its pride, which cannot be said for the Croatian, Muslim Federation. My amendment refers to the same position on the market without discrimination, as the government also wrote in its text, it said. I ask you, Mr. Minister, about services there are media, they are media service providers, they trade media services. I'm not interested in N1 television talking about genocide. That's a lie. I don't care what the "New S" broadcasts or what it's called. They can broadcast whatever they want, but they have to register. I ask you – are media service providers, electronic media, in the same position in the Republic of Serbia? It's amazing that domestic media, registered at REM, and REM is pretending to be dead... It's some combined, mostly, old composition. I think two-thirds of the members should be detained in REM. One-third should be completed and two-thirds should be detained. They did not represent equality on the market in REM, but represented Gilas and Solak. It is amazing that domestic media in the Republic of Serbia have a worse position than alleged cross-border television. So it's the United Group, United Media, interlinked. These are those companies owned by David Petreus, head of the CIA, whether that's right, Mr. Lazanski, Colonel, former head of the CIA with some affair, so they pedaled him up, and former commander of the military forces in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria. It's the one that probably Islamises Europe, but that's Europe's problem. Europe will become, I see multiethnic, multiconfessional, even I think Europeans themselves will be minorities. That's not the problem. We will not defend Europe from their problem. They built Europe without borders in Syria, Libya, Iraq, etc., so now let them accept the population of which the states have destroyed. It is impossible for the media to be in a worse position than fake cross-border televisions that are registered fictitiously in Luxembourg. They really have the right to re-emission the programme in Serbia, re-emitting. This means simultaneously broadcasting in Luxembourg and such a source programme, with such original ads, can be re-emissioned in Serbia and cannot be terminated, cannot be produced in Serbia and cannot be a pirated, fake cross-border channel. I'm not knowing about this twice on N1 television. I won't perform anymore. The N1 TV performance that wasn't registered, a fake cross-border channel, is the same as driving in a stolen car you know was stolen. So N1 and "New" TVs deal with stealing advertising space, stealing programs and, together with SBB, destroying domestic media. The domestic media are paying REM broadcasting fees, paying Sokoya, paying RATEL. These fake cross-border channels pay no one anything in Serbia. This puts them in a privileged position in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in relation to domestic media. Domestic media that live on commercials and pay all these fees are victims of these TVs again because these TVs broadcast domestic advertising and pay them off, because they don't pay taxes, etc., to broadcast it cheaper. That's how they take bread with regular channels. They're in a worse position twice, I've already told you, domestic media versus fake cross-border media. They're media service providers. That's what you trade and that's what I'm talking about in this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent regulatory authorities must deal with it. I received a reply from REM, which was written by the owners of United Groups and "Adria News", owners of "N1" and "New", calling for answers from those who installed these pirate televisions. They say they're not in charge of fake cross-border channels. Yes, they are in charge of the SBB for the regulator and are competent to order the regulator to shut down false cross-border channels, they say they cannot determine. By law, they have the right to engage foreign legal and natural persons in order to help establish such particulars. Ladies and gentlemen, and for the third time, our domestic media, registered in the Republic of Serbia, is in a more unfavourable position, because SBB uses domestic channels, whose program is used in 80% of cases, pay for broadcasting nothing. While these fake cross-border channels, they pay up to three euros per user, i.e. a SBB subscriber. There are fake cross-border channels that receive millions of figures a month, for allegedly re-emissioning, in fact, production is being done in Serbia. This privileged position, the false pirate media must stand in the way. It is the same as bringing a car dealer into a privileged position, compared to a regular manufacturer and a car dealer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58472	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58473	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, we don't need outside enemies when we have internal enemies, said one and stayed alive, I guess his name is Sergei Trifunovic -- there was genocide in Srebrenica. Shame on him, there was no genocide in Srebrenica. We're a defense people, we've been running a defense policy our whole lives. There were crimes in Srebrenica on both sides, both Muslims and Serbs were killed, but I share people in good and bad, not belongings. So, once and for all, come on, those mothers hurt to the bone, to heal the wounds. How is he not ashamed, so does he know what genocide means, extermination? Well, what an extermination when we have a common president of the municipalities, that's where people work, live, practice. We're calming people down. The end of it. It was a crime, genocide never. Over. We are talking today about the Proposal for a Law on Trade, let's see how it was traded, and above all, since this is a roof law, it is in line with the Law on Inspection and the Law on General Administrative Procedure. Let's see how they traded it from 2000 to 2012. The former defence minister, who melted all the tanks and sold the boats, so when it was that catastrophic flood, you remember how it was, we didn't have any lifeboats, he bought a million-euro apartment, no day's work, it's a great honor for him. That's not right, here's who's listening, if he's listening and watching one of the kids, kids don't need this. Zivkovic, marketed vineyards, received 525,000 euros in subsidies, marketed vineyards, didn't return the money. There's something else, nobody's talking about it, the penthouse on the Wizard, and here I'll talk about it. Further, Djelic, incased 11m euros, disappeared without a trace, now appeared there, via the "Meridian Bank". Tadic, incased a 300m-euro villa. Steal this land, shame on them. In 2008, 400,000 people were out of work. Well, it's not 400,000, millions of people with families. Unemployment 27%, today, is now said Minister, 12.1%. That's how it works. I can talk to you today with pride on trade, no robbery, no corruption, and if there are, they were gentlemen from the Anti-Corruption Agency the other day, they have evidence of anyone who has butter on their head, who stole, who will be processed. That's how the government is responsible. Today we can talk about trade, because the average personal income is 460 euros, and it was 330, it's a large amount of money. The minimal was 16,000 dinars, so what can you buy for 16,000 dinars? It's 27,200 today, and by New Year's Eve, it's gonna be a lot more. That's how the government is responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58474	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58475	Thank you. I'd like to talk about Mr. Rističević's amendment, because he's talking about things that concern our agricultural producers, goods, services. As they said earlier, as he said, and I always say, our farmers have very high quality products. Special quality products are from Southeast Serbia, from mountainous mountainous areas where I come from, but it is a problem with our people that trade is because they cannot provide adequate conditions to transport, to drive that goods to the market in Nis, to the market in Belgrade. That's what someone else is doing right now, and we've been doing some things to this law, but we still have people to do that store because they can't provide adequate conditions to transport, to drive that stuff to the market in Nis, to the market in Belgrade, that's what someone else is doing. We have now made some adjustments to this law, but we still have to work to ensure better living conditions for our agricultural producers living in our villages, in mountainous areas, in municipalities, because I say again, that many of our villages do not even have commercial shops, but on the other hand they have quality products. Dear Ministers, you and your Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are working to balance living conditions everywhere, and I will also support the bill and all these things, but I always note that we must put a greater emphasis on our people living in the country and from the village, in the area of southeastern Serbia and in mountainous areas. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58476	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58477	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, we've reached Article 9. We are talking today about equality in trade, we are talking about conditions for doing trade, about preventing the distortion of equality in the single market in the Republic of Serbia. There are always interesting discussions between colleagues Rističević, especially I find this comparison between the authorities from and to 2012 and even before 2012. We remember that the Research Reporting Centre has published a platform containing information from 24 controversial privatisations and what the consequences have been for our market. So it's the period between 2001 and 2003, and later in 2005, the period when Zoran Zivkovic was also prime minister, when the privatisation minister was Aleksandar Vlahovic. That's when about 1,400 companies were privatized. The abuse of the situation has led to great consequences for our public finances. Sartid Ironworks, if we only take it as one to one in 2002, were launched for over-indebted reasons to sell it in 2003. What was disputed was that the first letter of intent was signed with the buyer, and only then was the bankruptcy and sale procedure launched. The company was sold for about $20m even though the estimated value was much higher and ranged from as much as $28-50m. So the Smederevo hardware store was without any perspective, and today we have a completely different situation, today it contributes to the stability of the budget, employs a lot of people. Chinese partners saved jobs for more than 5,000 people and with production that went up to two million tonnes last year, ironworks full of Smederev's budget. Since 2016, more than 160m euros have been invested since the HBIS Group took over the hardware store. Of course, those who took part in controversial privatisations are now first critics and should be honored to have citizens who remember everything well, run a dirty campaign using lies, even attacks of a personal nature on members of the government. Zoran Zivkovic, by talking about the degree of Interior Minister Nebojja Stefanovic, only actually wants to draw attention from the affair and from controversial privatisations, and the answer to the question that counterpart Marijan Rističević has asked here in the Assembly, since we are talking about his amendment – where he comes from, I will add, if Zoran Zivkovic has at all, we haven't received yet. So I would support Mr. Risticevic's discussions and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58478	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have been discussing in the National Assembly the laws on trade without a minister in charge of that portfolio. What was so important, and what was more important than a congregation debate, is there anything more important than a minister not being in the National Assembly? I suppose the minister for that portfolio should monitor the changes and additions and explain to the MPs. I appreciate and respect that Mr. Djordjevic is committed and present every day, I could only conclude that this is probably because he is about to take over that portfolio in the next term. That might be a good move. But now that Mr. Djordjevic is there every time other ministers do not come to the Assembly, he is called Minister of General Practice, what we are talking about today, and the general absence of Minister Ljajic shows the government's attitude towards the National Assembly and shows that we are simply fulfilling the form with these laws, and we are doing nothing about the essence of our problems, which the English would say - we are not talking about an elephant in the room. The source of all our trade-related problems is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As long as that agreement is not put out of effect, we will continue to create an increasingly unfavourable and unfavorable situation for our economy. That's a fact. And now whether we're going to introduce this method or the one over there or something else or change something in terminology, it's absolutely irrelevant. So, we should discuss the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and what most representatives of the ruling majority in the National Assembly say, which is that something epochal happened in 2012, it's finally dawned morning for Serbia, and what's already happened then should be seen in part to show it, and not to be like what's happened for seven years now, that we've actually had continuity with the governments of DS and the former DOS, because as long as there's an excuse -- you know, we didn't do it but someone else, we didn't invent it, and nothing's done to solve the problem, here, now you have most, let's change, if you're against it. We will continue to be in this abyss, hoping that this imaginaryly joined the European Union will in itself bring us something more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58480	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although I highly appreciate the majority, almost all of Risticevic's amendments, I must say that I propose not to accept this amendment because of that argument that the Serbian government delivered in its opinion. But what worries me, Mr. Chairman, is one growing aggression, hysteria and violence in society, which we can see these days and in the media and we have a fragrant example in that sense. Namely, National Party official Vladimir Gajic, by order of his bosses Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas, was most pro-promising the DS MP Natasa Vukkovic. Please, look what he said about her: “You are a poor, poor woman; you are an impotent amateur. ” I am truly, to say, truly human moved and upset by such hysterical, leprosy and vulgar insults to the People's Parliament, from whatever party it comes from. So, it's a DS MP that Vladimir Gajic, in the most vulgar way, insulted on Twitter, and I really think that we as a society should deal with reducing this degree of violence, the hate speech that appears in the media. You know, I'm really one to express a pacifist and I loathe the violence of every kind, so this is really unacceptable to me. Natasa Vukkovic was in an interview in "New Magazine", if I am not mistaken, said the boycott is not politics and it is the only sin of Natasha Vukkovic. And really a boycott is not politics. Boycott can't be a politician in any way, and she deserves such savagery and such vulgar humiliation by the rest of the Alliance for Serbia. And this isn't, let me tell you, the chairman, the only example. For days, there has been a struggle in the Alliance for Serbia between Jeremic and Djilas. It is likely that it is a struggle for power within the Alliance for Serbia itself, and we have every day attacks from one group to another group, probably that Gilas, you know, he doesn't like competition, probably that it's a struggle for predominance, he wants to be an uncut leader, so now he wants in every possible way to remove anyone who is in some way his competition. I do repeat again that as a society, we need to find ways and models to deal with these kinds of violence and hate speech coming from this Alliance for Serbia, Gilas and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58482	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58483	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honored People's MPs, the Law on Trade has been implemented significant changes with regard to the general conditions for the conduct of trade on the internal market. The classification of forms and methods of trade, as well as the legal framework for improving trade, has been introduced, and all in order to develop the competition and equality of traders. A reform of inspection supervision carried out in the direction of a more efficient control system has been carried out. By 2012, trade in the Republic of Serbia was developing without a deliberate and consistent trade policy. The retail sector is a driver of competitiveness and employment growth. It represents the pillar of the economy. Retail services are crucial to the modern economy. Our goal is to build a modern market economy and thus modern trade. Trade is increasingly becoming a key engine for market economy development. An adequate information base is the basis for business development and trade policy creation. In this way, the restoring ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will lead an active planning policy and implement concrete measures in the process of building the structure of the market and trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58484	Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this law on trade should have been passed earlier and started to remove the consequences of an earlier regime that was primarily the biggest in trade, to say, harmful by the state of the Republic of Serbia, that criminals had the opportunity to deal with trade and speculation without the competent state authorities responding in terms of the provisions of the law. What I'm trying to say is that Serbia has the biggest inspection problem. Inspectors do not carry out their duties under the law, it is he who is in force and who is being prepared and who should enter into force. First of all, the question is, when the inspections are being carried out, when the inspection is being carried out, where the inspectors go to do inspection and inspection. We have a lot of inspection. However, consider the municipalities of Chajetin and Zlatibor, the village of Jablanica, Semegnjevo, Dobrosjelica, Negbin, Household, Jasenovo, etc. And this law stipulates that only trade can be dealt with by merchants. And what shall we do when from these twenty villages in Zlatibor they bring out their goods to farmers and cattle farmers on the market, and the inspection comes and says: and you are not a merchant; the merchant is a Goldibor. And a Goldfighter who doesn't have skin, well, he'll have the right to trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58486	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a major market, it's very interesting for us farmers, but I have to say it's a big trade. The former regime party also traded largely. She sold the country for a chair, traded the country's national interests, traded the country's sovereignty and sold it for a living. They were not interested in the production of loans, and the money from the sale of capital for other people's money was traded with other people's goods. As far as farmers are concerned, farmers have suffered a burden of social peace in the 1990s, which they endured, the prices of agricultural products were below social. One car of wheat was worth a bunch of beers for inflation. A cattle truck, you couldn't get more than 100 marks for a cattle truck. Farmers in Serbia or peasants, knowingly without great rebellion, have endured the burden of military and economic pressures on our country. We dreamt that after the change of state, he would return it to the farmers. At the time, Miodrag Kostic and others of today's large farmers engaged in oil smuggling and reselling to farmers. It didn't occur to them to deal with agriculture at social cost. Today they are the owners, while we dreamt that after the change of states, all of this was returned to the farmers who had lost without restoring the mechanism of the 1990s and equipment, until the tycoons, along with individual DOS leaders, dreamed of having a dream that when the change occurred they could possess hundreds and hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land. That's what they did. When they bought the combined workers, they fired the cattle, sold out our processing facilities, slaughterhouses, etc., they left no raw materials. That's how they destroyed the processing industry. The companies were like shells, suck out capital, and return it to a bowl, or what they didn't need to return to the Privatisation Agency, which then had to support such companies from which they sucked capital. The farmers were never returned to their interest, and I advocated that agricultural land would not be the subject of privatisation. Vlahovic, there are MPs here who were MPs at the time, came out for a pay phone and promised me, it stands in stenograms, and promised that agricultural land would not be the subject of privatisation, and lied. I asked 30% of the processing capacity to go to the farmers' property as compensation for the lost profits in the '90s. They couldn't get it either, but they gave it to Miodrag Kostic, for example, for three euros, along with sugar and a contracted sugar tail. But Miodrag Kostic did not have enough of that, so he had to repack, because of the repacking of sugar and in Serbia, the sugar in Bosnia was twice as cheap as in Serbia, which produced that sugar. When he got his hands on the land, he didn't like some plots. Then the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, replaced 1,200 hectares of land bought by Milorad Kostic, small plots, it was a list of this size for this large list of state parcels, and the Law on Agricultural Land, says that the replacement can only be done when the state is aggregated, but that they have accumulated Koletovo. Which means Cole managed the state. It was this kind of trade and I can freely say that they sold the country for a chair, the peasants left without a perspective, without being able to make a profit through the processing of what they lost not only in the 1990s, but what in primary production today, possibly loses, because of the low prices they can't make through the processing industry, because they didn't allow them to be co-owners of the processing facilities. This country did not work for ordinary people, it worked for tycoons and interrelated officials. Private businesses are connected to public functions and if it hadn't been for a change in 2012 this country would probably have been the former. We have to keep an eye on what Mrs. Jeftovic said in the future, 300 thousand hectares of agricultural land, known to colleagues on both the right and the left in Vojvodina today is worth about five billion. At the price of PIK Becej, in some renewed privatisation, the price of PIK Becej with three thousand hectares of the country was 50m euros, a hundred times less land than they sold with all combinations and cooperatives. Three hundred thousand agricultural land is worth five billion euros. The state was damaged by four billion 950m euros due to tycoon and former officials only in agricultural land, and in order to deal with only agricultural land, cattle were slaughtered, workers fired, the processing industry was left without processing milk, meat, eggs and so on. So the damage is multiple. I believe that through major markets we will do something, but without the participation of farmers in storage, without the participation of farmers in processing, without their participation in the ownership of these capacity to raise, subsidize, without participation in freezers, silos, warehouses, without participation in wholesale processing will be little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58488	Thank you. According to the amendment, there is a National MP, Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58489	Mr. Chairman, regarding my colleague Risticevic's submitted amendment, I have the need to point out that in Serbia, out of the total number of residents, 4.5% are resident in the out-of-town environments, that we have 4700 Serbian villages, that we have 631 thousand registered households in which the elderly live, but also the fact that there are no shops in a thousand villages. Since we are discussing an amendment to the Trade Law proposal, this is an opportunity and the need to use this form proposed in the law to indicate that it is necessary to make sure that sales facilities are formed in villages, to say shops, shops where these older residents can provide themselves with the necessary supplies because they are often unable to travel further to obtain the same. We have cooperatives and cooperatives have several forms and they are working and Mr. Krkobiæ is working well on the development of cooperatives, but we need further development of the village and rural area, all in line with the national strategy promoted and supported by President Vukic to put a special accent on the further development of the rural area and the restoration of the village in the coming years. I would like to ask Mr. Minister, who is now authorized, but also the competent minister to consider the possibility to find himself within this bill of a certain advantage, I cannot say favourableity, because their country life is very difficult, so the incentive measures for the opening of trading facilities in villages and supplying our older population. Our government and the policy of this government guarantee that we take care of every citizen, especially through the national strategy of further development and restoration of rural areas and the restoration of the village, that it will be, and I only ask that, in addition to all priorities, this priority be one of the important ones, because it is important for us to each man, and it is especially important for us to provide an older population in the villages with one as much quality life as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58490	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58491	I agree with you that the biggest problem for us is the fact that the demographic image, on the one hand, has deteriorated in Serbia and the measures that the president himself is, considering it to be one of the most important things, because without people, without people, we're free and good laws, we're free of laws and everything else if we don't have people, we have to change something. Of course, the backbone of everything is that not all of us live in cities, but the village must live. When it comes to this law, and when we talk about trade and e-commerce and the stock exchange, one of the things is exactly that approximation and all the possibilities of these laws to the people who live in the country. Because some of the things that apply here are far from accessible or understandable to some people who live there today, and certainly to keep young people alive, they have to have job safety. The security of business is ensured, in a way, and by implementing this law, and then, of course, by implementing the Law on Electronic Trade, because they can literally e-commerce from any part of our country and that even if they live in the country, they have the exact same feeling as they live in the city and are present where something is going on, and that they don't need to place their goods to live in the city or to have daily expenses, or to go to the city or to some center where they would sell what they produce. It is one segment that indirectly affects business security and economic migration does not happen. I think he talked a lot about it when it comes to the village and the problems that exist in the country, but also about what some negative examples of everything that happened in the past, and there have been a lot of stories before, leading to our young people seeing that just some of these things happen badly and that they have nothing to look for here. We as a state, we as a government, want to change that. We want to give them a chance and we want to say that we are a country that offers equal opportunities for all citizens, for all young people, and that is the only way for young people to stay in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58492	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Petrovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58493	Your exposure assures me that you are doing well and that the policy of this government is aimed at both the whole of Serbia and the Serbian village. A Serbian peasant, no offense, or peasant, as said by academic Lukic, built Serbia, raised and defended Serbia in the war and in peace. We must never forget a Serbian peasant. I am a village child and it is my duty and my duty to give support, and your exposure and policy of our government assures me that we will strengthen the Serb village. A strong village is equal to a strong Serbia. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58494	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58495	I'd go up, like my colleague Snow White said, we're talking about the village, we're talking about agriculture, we're talking about trade. All these things are about each other. Where the village, where the peasant is, where the quality of the lamb is, the cheese, whether it's quality white, whether it's something else from our pastures or orchards, it's all very good quality, but it's very hard to get to the buyer, but it's very hard to get to the buyer, and where there's a big price difference, it comes from the manufacturer to the final buyer, where these buyers, people who really do things that aren't good for our farmer. I say it again and I will always talk about our village, agriculture, and it's good to talk about it here in the Assembly, that the village is the pillar of our Serbia, that the peasant defended and fed the country, but it's very important that we know that all of us who are here have a lineage of origin from the village. But, on the other hand, we who live in the country, we who do agriculture, I'm sure we have a sense of those things that matter to our village, to our peasant, to our agriculture. I always speak and always speak from the heart, from what I know, because I'm in an area where it's very hard to live, where a village in mountainous and mountainous areas, where there's nowhere, most of our municipality, and also in southeastern Serbia, has no internet, so I've repeatedly asked the Ministry of Telecommunications to provide Internet coverage to our villages, to those beautiful environments, where we can have the opportunity to live much better. Once again, I would like to invite all my fellow Members to come and be with us when the agricultural work begins, and I would very much like to host some MP who lives in the city, to feel the problems in our village, to go together to do agricultural work, and to go to the village house afterwards, to finish what is needed, and when we see how weak the electricity is, that there is no water, that there is no store, that we don't have a doctor, well, these are things that are now a fact and we have to talk about these things like this and talk, transparently. On the other hand, our government is working to solve these problems that have been lagging behind since the previous period. But it's really a problem, and for every man, we have to fight. Once again, the organizations that we do in these small environments, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, where "Belmužijada" is, where "Belmužijada" is, here, now in Književec is the organization "Cadibogaz", in these places people are seeing each other, there are exchanges of experiences. But on the other hand, living in such areas is not easy. If we want to stay there, we must stand out more for our women in the country, for our children in the country, for our agricultural producers living in such areas. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58496	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine has asked me to delete this article 23, for one simple reason why this member introduces restrictions on who can do everything in trade. I find the government's argument that it has not accepted this amendment at least interesting, where it is said - the amendment is rejected for reasons that only those people who have a degree in merchants can work on wholesalers. We all know that trade is the oldest activity of human beings, that it's universal activity and that trade deals, first of all, those who have talent for it. One can also have all the degrees in the area of trade, and let's just say that, in practice, there's nothing he can do. So I don't think that there should be any restrictions, but simply let people deal with the trade as much as they can and as much as they feel they're capable of it. Since it's a major market, I can assume that you might have wanted to avoid this, eliminate buyers and so on, but that wholesaler has the right to do whatever he wants and sell it in any way. Let's just say, if we take it as agricultural producers, it's the easiest and easiest thing for them to give their goods to the quantum markets, that they sell it all at once to go back to working on their agricultural holdings. So I don't think these restrictions should have been introduced, because there's absolutely no need for that. Graduations as a diploma, we know how to get a degree today. It's easier to buy a diploma today than a little better phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58498	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. By amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58499	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. Ministers with associates, I do not accept the proposed amendment, I support the bill. I must say that the government is making an effort to address the inherited problems in trade as well as in other segments of society. Remember inflation in 1990, remember the destroyed economy, tycoon privatisation, destroyed production in 2012, we inherited chaos everywhere and anywhere. If there's no production, there's no store. Those who are not present in parliament are part of the demolition army, but these days their anxiety has reached maximum. Why? Well, they cannot accept the fact that Serbia was visited by Emanuel Makron, president of such an important European state, France. They know it is the success of Alexander Vukic and Serbia, which is now valued both in the east and west. The opposition gentlemen are furiously reacting because they were not received by Makron. Well, he didn't, and maybe that intelligence doesn't have anyone who speaks French to write a letter to the ambassador that they want to meet him. Who knows, maybe if they had written a letter in Cyrillic, you might have received them, since he tried to speak his speech in our beautiful language, which is the respect of our president, the respect of our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58500	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58501	Thank you. There's only one thing I need to share with you, which is now that you've told me about the big market, it's come to mind, and that's one thing we're talking about here. We talk about Europe and the Russian Federation all the time, and one thing and one market is open to us and I think that when it comes to trade and when it comes to electronic trade, our presence there and how it can be very useful for our country, which is Africa and African countries. I would like to tell you that from some personal experience, given that I was there, that the countries on the African continent are also committed to Serbia and how they love us and that's because of some good policy we've had before, but which we're still leading today. I think that in some period from 2000 to 2012, we talk a lot about things that are negative, and another added in the whole story is that we have completely neglected our friends on the African continent, that when it comes to basic things and when it comes to our country's policy, we simply didn't want to have any contact with them, even though we knew that they were our friends, that when it comes to unilateral recognition of Kosovo and that we allowed them to have no information about what our attitude towards it was, it led to half of our friends on the African continent admitting that we are working hard with them today and that most of them are pulling those recognitions precisely because they are our friends. In conversation with them they are very willing that, when it comes to trade, it comes back to some level from before, to open their markets, to buy goods from us, to be able to our traders, our producers, our farmers place their goods there. This opportunity to, in addition to Serbia having good relations with the EU and with the Russian Federation, be that of the Russian Federation and the EU towards the African continent. They're very willing to do it that way. I think that all of us here and you people's MPs and we, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should work on it every day, to cultivate this friendship with that people, to have constant contact with them, because those opportunities that are ahead of us simply don't have other countries. I think some other country has a tenth part of what we have, that it would make much, much better use of it than we do, that have 100% chance of African countries. So I invite all of you, whoever is able, whoever has contact with anyone in any African country, to have constant contacts, to cultivate this friendship, because that's the future. The African continent is the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58502	Thank you, Minister. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are the final laws of the Ministry of Trade's resources that came to the National Assembly, because this ministry is one of the few that, in addition to its personnel, relied on some projects on the side. The laws have arrived and the resolution minister has not arrived, so Minister Djordjevic plays an ungrateful role today to defend the laws of ministers who ignore both the National Assembly and the MPs. The law on trade is certainly a key and fundamental law of this activity, where all trade-related jobs are regulated. You stated that in 2016 your ministry formed a Working Group for analysis and drafting of regulations from the department's work, and especially regulations governing the market, which is fine, but now the second half of 2019 and means that it has been three years. Three years of pregnancy to give birth to this legislative child? In the light of the legal proposal, you quoted some 2001 reports in English. It doesn't matter if I know that world language, which is certainly an innovation of its kind. Another interesting thing, in this guideline, it says that in Croatia 2016 the participation of the supermarket and the hypermarket in traffic was 68%. It is not a problem that you listed Croatia, but where do you find that you are citing data from so long ago, when trade, according to your claim, is a activity that is constantly growing and developing? Should I remind you that when it comes to trade, it's about objects, pieces, mass, weight, weight, percentages, money? It's not a matter of metaphysics, consciousness or anything that's not tangible. Trade is cash, data, profit, failure. Your ministry is trained to monitor the state of affairs at the store, but how are you going to do that when you have no data? It's the same as when you want to dig corn, and you don't have a field, or a hook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58504	Thank you, colleague Boyic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58505	You can dig corn without a field and without a pest. Like, for example, at Miodrag Kostic's. He's picked up all the fields, and he's got hooks. All you have to do is have a good back. This amendment speaks of prices. We have already spoken several times that by joining public functions and private businesses in privatisation, better say grabbing, these joint criminal enterprise, plus Bosko Ljotic Žutić bought everything for free. Everything that was ours has become theirs. The price was "for free", and that "for free" had some discounts. Is that right? Previously, they were buying stamps for a tenth of its value, not in real terms, but in official terms. They get the right to buy stamps, pay ten dinars, go out to the street and sell for a hundred dinars, come back and buy ten times more marks, bring it out nicely to the sculptor, and when the privatisation came, the grabby, then they turned all that capital into even more capital. According to international organisations, our country has been sold for free. It was carried out in 2011 only through privatisation, which foreign organisations claim, 51 billion dollars. So damaged are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that rich paradise is based on a hell of the poor. The result is 600,000 people fired from work, and that's not all, because these people on the income side have been transferred to expenditure. So instead of filling funds, they went into social cases and the state had to have that kind of expenditure. As far as the price is concerned, we could see how much the state costs, Mr Martinovic, to copy the talks Rocen – Jeremic, how much the state costs, what it costs to the state of Serbia-Montenegro, how much it costs to sell national interests not only to Serbia and the people in Serbia, but also to the people in Montenegro, how much it costs to sell Serbia's sovereignty, what it costs to sell Montenegro's sovereignty. It all cost 30 nights at St. Stefan's Hotel in Montenegro. (Alexander Martinovic: Twenty-nine. There you go, twenty-nine. So not even 30, but 29. Milo Rocen and Jeremiah must have taken off one night and said, "If not, the waves will be 30, but 29. I believe they've appreciated the state so much, and I believe that the citizens should appreciate this for boycotting the National Assembly. I believe that tomorrow the election will be boycotted by the parties boycotting the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58506	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58507	According to this member, the price hike should be given by a resolute ministry, or a resolute minister. We are witnesses of the reality that governs when it comes to executive power and when it comes to the work of parliament. A few months ago, the resolution minister said he had no idea he was showing up in this parliament and apparently his will or better to say self-will is above any law or government. We are here to discuss a law whose resolute minister is not present and to speak with the distinguished Mr. Djordjevic, who can and does not need to know the answers to every question, especially these amendments. In fact, there's something in this bill called doubling powers. The government law clearly states how and on what principle the government works, how decisions are made. The law on trade cannot be above the Law on the work of the Government. As a collective body, the government makes every decision, and this implies that, with the agreement of the resolution ministers, it cannot be stressed here when it comes to price increases. The key problem when it comes to the trade system in Serbia is the next, our largest share of capital, as a state, has moved to trade and this transfer from production to trade. Serbia has yet to find an answer, including on this government, how to return most of that capital to production. We have a trade that's like a flow water heater, imports of goods from abroad, importers sell here at, of course, higher prices, stable dinar course, have no risk at all, they overload it into euro, they export that capital to these wholesalers. The whole system of wholesale is designed like that. We're struggling here to improve, to stimulate the development of the economy, to develop production. We can't because that part of capital simply isn't invested in production, but is invested in new imports of goods, mostly on imports of goods, because if production falls, if the economy falls, that logic will make less domestic products. Besides, there's a lot of personality psychology that people use to open mega-markets. Mega market is a closed space, man has no idea of time, whether it's day or night, it's completely relative when a man finds himself in such a space. Secondly, it's not a mega market for pensioners and older people, because there's nowhere to rest. Third, psychologically speaking, you always have big baskets at your disposal. Shame on a man if he doesn't fill that basket. That's the feeling of a man, that's how it is. It's a based store that's being held in Serbia. Everyone thinks it's a good price, it's a healthy competition, and in fact it's none of it. We have the least use for these laws because with this law, these changes of law have to go to a set of amendments to other laws, such as the Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58508	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58509	I thank the chairman. As the previous speaker said, Article 28 refers to price formation and certainly it is necessary for the government to give consent to form certain prices. The government does not only participate in price increases, but also in price correction. This means that sometimes prices can be reduced, by some product, with agreement with the restoring ministry, or the minister at the head of the ministry. I must return before 2012, when the adviser at the Ministry of Trade, Mr. Misic, who has just participated in the formation of a regulation on the price of folk bread, is also a special condition that this national bread must use certain additives, and of course you could only buy those additives with him in his private company. In order for this to never happen again, today this government headed by our president, Alexander Vukic, is trying to make sure that this malversion never happens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58510	Thank you. Replica, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58511	The bottom line is, fellow Members, here to simply double the powers of one of the resolution ministries, and we have the Law on the work of a government that regulates and makes decisions of the government, and here we give exclusive rights to a minister. Now, imagine what an absurd thing that is? This ministry is called the Department of Trade and Telecommunications. Find me a common link between telecommunications or trade, or maybe it's a relationship like Minister Popovic recently went to talk about these from the "Michajlo Pupin" Institute what should they do? Imagine, what an absurdity, there's no such thing as a man who knows what to do about it and tells scientists what to do there. What does trade and telecommunications have to do with anything? Now, imagine the following situation, hypothetically, at a recommendation from the EU or the European community, as it is said, simply does not appear to be in the name of the ministry of trade, says telecommunications and free activities. I'm a cartoonist. It is here in this law that the Minister of Trade gives consent to an increase or to a drop in prices, it is completely irrelevant. I guess the Law on the work of the Government defines it, not individual laws. There is something called collective decision-making in the government and the Prime Minister decides, in the end he has discretionary rights in certain situations, to the soul in prices, not to apostrophe that the minister must give consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58512	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58513	Article 28 reads: "If the law provides for the government to give price consent," it does not say that the minister of trade gives price consent. The government is bringing on the basis of a proposal from the restoring minister. In addition, it is necessary for other ministries to give a positive agreement at the recommendation of the resolute minister, which is why the government is bringing prices. So you're not right at all what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58514	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58515	The government is deciding, co-worker, on the basis of a proposal from the minister and minister responsible for the relevant area. This is the Trade Act. You don't really think the minister decides here on work and social issues, I guess the law makes sense, the logic of things works, maybe it does. Perhaps we who are not in favour of joining the EU are not at that level of understanding, so explain. It would be nice if you could explain. I guess the minister should. The bottom line is, you're avoiding answering or one of those who gets you that it's not the government's labour law, is the Government Act, where government work is regulated, but let me explain why you don't have the Minister of Resort here? Is that the government crisis? Is this a crisis of government in Serbia? Is this the crisis the authority of the Prime Minister when he cannot resolutely minister, but Mr. Djordjevic comes here? Of course, it provides adequate answers, but they are more for future elections or political accounting, not something that would be called an expert debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58516	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58517	If there was a crisis in the government, surely 55% of the people, as far as they said they would vote for the SNS, would certainly not have spoken out. Another thing, since you asked me to explain the price to you, let me give you an example. The price of coal, a resolute minister, means the energy minister, is proposing that the price of coal be increased or reduced. To this end, consent is sought from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and other ministries, and only on this basis is the government declared and made a decision, i.e. a solution to increase or not the price of coal. For example, for some other products from another resolution ministry, the resolution minister makes a proposal, and then all other ministries agree or disagree, which is why the government is bringing prices. So what you're saying makes no sense at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58518	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58519	I may not be a meaningful man, but look what's going on here, colleague. Why stand out in this Law on the Trade of Ministers? That is understood, it is the Law on the Government of Serbia, read, you will see. All of what you've been saying here is regulated, defined, on the proposals of resolution ministers. But why, in this law, is our question -- why is the resolution minister being apostrophe in this law? Why isn't it in other laws? Why isn't it, say, in the Energy Act, why isn't this area defined around coal? No, it's about the store. I understand what you're talking about, that it should be something that is adequate or identical to the Government Act, but why are we apostrophe when you don't have a minister here? As for the government crisis, don't explain that citizens vote, citizens vote for Alexander Vukic. Leave that story, the people know it, on Alexander Vukic, and even in the local communities when the elections for the council of the local community are, place Alexander Vukic. Why don't these powerful ministers show up with their name and last name, including the respective trade minister, which doesn't sometimes appear in the elections and says the list is named by his name, or any other minister? No, they're using the name of Alexander Wolf. Leave those stories alone, they're not based on reality. So, by replacing thesis, you want to avoid the answer. Why don't you force, in some way, the Minister of Resort to come to parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58520	Thank you. Right on line, MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58521	Thank you for saying yourself that our President Alexander Vukic and the president of our party have so many percent of the people who vote for him. I mean, everyone is aware, except for some, some here are not aware that Alexander Vukic is number one man in Serbia. As far as this law is concerned, at the end of this law, it states that at the proposal of the minister and minister, he is in charge of the appropriate area. It doesn't say here that only the Minister of Trade stands. The fact that you have a hickey on Mr. Trade Minister, that's your business, but this law is right and especially this member who deals with price formation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58522	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58523	As for support, it's all relative. Boris Tadic had over 50%, did you see him fall, hit the ice on all those polls, all those research? Why? Maybe he'd pass, but he had bad associates. Vojislav Kostunica, even in the prophecy of Tarabic. Did you see that? The day comes he's gone, not even the Tarabis take care of him anymore. Tomislav Nikolic was a vision. He knew he was quoting the Tarabics. Remember his quote, I quote, when he said, "Yellow people will come and insult the president of China"? When she saw Serbia as a fool leading Serbia, they immediately denied his trust. Don't rely on it. It is not disputed that he, as an individual, is currently enjoying trust. It's a variable. This is about the government functioning. Do we tolerate or tolerate anyone, I don't know how you get that conclusion? We're just criticizing the work. But you haven't answered the key question. A few months ago, Minister Rasim Ljajic said he had no idea he was showing up in parliament and remained consistent. What mechanisms did you use to tell the minister? That he is in conflict with a certain political option in this House has nothing to do with his work. He should appear here, as did Minister Djordjevic, to suffer criticism and praise, depending on which side he considers appropriate, whether to criticise or praise him. That's the point of the question. Don't explain to us it's not a crisis. Yes, as soon as the Prime Minister has no authority to instruct him to sit here where Minister Djordjevic is sitting. Anyway, it's hard for you to admit it, for the public's sake. It'll come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58524	Right on line, MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58525	Thank you. For seven years, the SNS has been in power. You've probably forgotten already, Boris Tadic never had over 50% of the people's votes, never, and President Aleksandar Vukic had over 50% of the Serbian people's votes. As for the persistent issue for the minister of trade, you have parliamentary issues on Tuesdays and Thursdays, so ask him a direct question. What are you talking to me about?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58526	The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58527	Well, maybe it's not a bad idea to wait Tuesday or Thursday, but it's even days. Who knows if the Assembly will be sitting on Tuesdays and Thursdays? Anyway, I use the opportunity based on this argument that the government's representative is a resolute minister, and his name is Rasim Ljajic, in these documents. Here, who knows which way Mr. Djordjevic or one of the ministers is coming to replace him. That's all I'm using, a possibility. I'll keep your advice in mind. But if I remember Tuesdays and Thursdays, and if I don't remember, be kind, colleagues, as you are beautiful, so remind me on Tuesdays or Thursdays just to ask about Rasim Ljajic. But here I am now openly asking on behalf of the public – where is Resolute Minister Rasim Ljajic? Is his personal position above the work and principles of government work, or parliament? Is there an individual in this state of Serbia who can rise above parliament? He does not disrespect the MPs of this or that political option, does not respect the citizens who voted for the political option. Let me just tell you, fellow Members, that you never lose your mind, on average, for every MP, when you share the total number of votes, vote around 17,000 citizens, the voters of this Serbia. It's ignoring the will and trust of those citizens who gave it to me and you individually, as well as to all their colleagues in the elections. And that's what one individual ignores by saying - I'm not going to show up because I'm going to be exposed to criticism. So, what are the ministries and ministers for, but, among other things, to be exposed to screams, to criticise their legal proposals? You can't defend what's indefensible. As for this number of votes, I told you, just to remind you, polls showed, public opinion research, that beautiful Boris Tadic has over 50%. Kostunicas predicted that they would be a life-long president. He was widely accepted throughout the world, even led as a bear by God to a basketball game of professional basketball players, professional leagues in America, giving him some medals. Here, fellow Shormaz is here. He's a witness. He's a living participant. He was proud to have been president of Kostunica at the time. He was full of heart, raised his head. You're not something now, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58528	Thank you. Right on line, MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58529	You're right, Mr. Mircic, research has shown that Mr. Tadic has over 50%. But he never won 50% in the election, and our President Aleksandar Vukic won over 50%, and that's a big difference. As for what I told you, which day can you ask parliamentary questions, I didn't make it up, it says in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58530	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58531	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS refers to Article 31. The bill, where we've been looking for an erasure of the same, and with a reason that the trust mark is represented in the trade via the Internet and that it's regulated by another law. We all know, merchants in particular, that it's an ever-increasing competitive struggle. It's not only increased, it's reinforced. We haven't heard an explanation, nor an explanation of the shape of this phenomenon. It's not only understandable, it's an extremely important sector for the state. We see in the material a reduction in the gray economy, as a basic task. It is not a question of whether shops must have up to 400 square meters and over 400 square meters, or whether the average store in Serbia has 50 square meters. The basic question for the ministry and government – why is the low purchasing power of citizens, as a consumer, especially expressed in small areas? It's easier to manage the trade sector than to manage some who are more attractive, where the state invests, while others invest here, and citizens are paying anyway. It's less important to them to whom they pay, but they need to know what is paid and what is the quality. I have to point out that someone was smart, so in this bill, he wrote that municipal and market inspectors were the same, that they had the same jurisdiction, and that they wouldn't have called each other different. Everyone looks up and calls on others, especially when they do something wrong. Then you transfer responsibility from one to the other, with done or wrongly done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58532	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The word has a national MP, Studenka Kovacevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58533	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'd like something for the citizens who are watching us. The minister mentioned briefly the opening of new markets for Serbia and I would refer to this and mention Japan's market as a market that offers huge opportunities. I would like to remind you that from a recent time to the Japanese market, the rubber tail of the "Tiger" Pirot factory has also been found. Once the rubber boots from this factory are worn by NATO soldiers around the world in their operations and the pyrotic tail will be worn in Asian countries. Otherwise, "Tiger" Piroth is Serbia's third exporter with more than 170m euros in exports. We also signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with the Japanese in the field of agriculture. They are interested in fruits and other agricultural products, and they want to build fruit processing factories in Serbia. Of course, Serbia exports most to EU countries, but it is very important that we have opened the world's largest markets and all of that, of course, thanks to the friendly relations of President Vukic with representatives of Asian countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58534	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58535	I heard your question and I feel the need to answer, since you asked why it was bad purchasing power. It's because of the characteristics of the former yellow regime. The characteristics are: pride, bad politics, theft, fraud and deception of our citizens. That's why we have bad purchasing power, and we try to change all that and that our citizens are getting better and better purchasing power from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58536	Thank you, Minister. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where Nebojsa Misic was mentioned, so I remembered that very counselor, I think, the Prime Minister by 2003, and I think he was a consultant at the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade. I think he was a multiple advisor. Otherwise, it's Alexander Dracun's husband. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? The lady was Deputy Djelic, Minister of Finance. So, through nepotism, they packed up in the government. They are known for their family participation in the "Energo Green" affair, which will cost this country dearly. Before that, it seems to me, Mrs Kostic claimed that Nebojsa Misic had adopted a regulation, or regulation on folk bread, which is true. It also included the provision that only the additive imported by its company could be used in national bread. That's how he put the function together, nice and useful. When I pointed that out to the Prime Minister, it seems to me that he's the one who replaced him. However, it did not bother Boris Tadic to reactivate it. It didn't bother Micovic, it didn't bother Jesic and the same man, and this is a friend of Miodrag Kostic, with the Belgians he made an "Energo Green" affair in India that will cost this country dearly. When it comes to working time, the sale of assets, the sale of financial assets, the sale of enterprises, the sale of national interests, the former regime, the joint criminal enterprise, which now supports Bosko Ljotic yellowic, did not know about working hours. They sold our interests both overtime and overtime whenever they felt the need.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58538	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58539	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Now that we are specifically talking about the area of trade, we need to point to official information that speaks about the results of this government and responsible policy-making. All areas, trade, market, finance, employment policy, economy, should be seen as a whole. If mistakes are made in one area, it means consequences for all other areas, for society as a whole. We've opened more than 150 factories. They hired a large number of people. Now the average net profit is 463 euros, and in 2012, it was 330 euros. The unemployment rate is now 11.9%, and the DOS regime had a 27% unemployment rate. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, total registered employment increased by 2.7% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter of 2018. So numbers don't lie. In less than a year, more than 50,000 people have been employed. In the processing industry, nearly 30,000, in construction about 10,000, in the trading sector of large and slightly more than 7,000 people, etc. So, the store employs about 19% of the employees of the total number of employees, and that's what's crucial when we talk about this area. Therefore, any replacement of the thesis by the Alliance for Serbia leader does not stand. I don't think it would be bad if every time before their performances, statements, tents, street policies, or politics paid little attention to what the figures say and what official statistics say. That's the fundamental difference between us and the SNS. We have results that we can be proud of, and they mostly have zero for the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58540	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. On Article 34 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58541	This is a major failure that you made, in fact, escaped Rasim Ljajic in law. Okay, he knows the signs for these narcotics and it's an international label so he doesn't care, but as far as the declaration is concerned, Mr. Djordjevic, it has to be clearly translated into Serbian. Not only that, it is not even enough, because research has shown that every third consumer does not understand the labels on the declaration. Given that the huge inflow of goods from imports is due to the import lobby, and this is particularly dangerous in food products. Not a small number of unfortunately cases in Serbia, you could read that in the press. There are many of you who have small children, age of primary school, who are developing, where every vague declaration that is not well translated, which is not clearly written, for which you need a bat, and usually need it, hides the danger, because certain chemical products contain allergens that can harm children, especially young children and children in primary school. And you had to legislate anyone who was a producer and who was an importer to make that kind of declaration on the market. I really wouldn't start paying that much attention, but just from one chain of these markets, I was warned by one employee who told me that all that standards are internationally containing certain labels, especially when chemical products are about us who may be prone to some allergies are health-threatening and that it certainly must be paid attention. I truly believe that you will have a concrete answer to this as regards the MPs of power. I see they're involved in the debate and that's good. I would personally like to be replicated by my colleague Vladimir Djukanovic, not there. I believe he could really competently give an answer or agree or give a different opinion, but I'm sorry he's not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58542	The word has a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58543	Thank you. Of course it should contain all the facts of the declaration, so that the buyer will not be deceived. You have in Article 34(6) that this is in Serbian, Cyrillic or Latin. So that's defined. We can certainly talk about whether there's anything else to exist and something that maybe from practice each of us felt that, in addition to all that's said here, there's something else to write, but in any case, there's a definition of something like that. Maybe, you should add something. I expect a proposal from you, Mrs Jovanovic, to tell us if there is anything else to add. We think this law is defined when it comes to the declaration, which is all it takes, and I think that's quite enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58544	I thank Minister Djordjevic. Right to replicate National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58545	No idea. It exists in the world, but I'm telling you, you see, the minister doesn't deal with his portfolio, and apparently the people who wrote this bill didn't pay attention to that important thing. In many countries around the world, you're a man who's also officially, probably, and you're traveling privately, so you know, there's also signs of that, under the danger that they're dangerous to someone by health, products that are marked with different colors. So that's one of the ideas. The second idea is to really commit to the regulation of how the declaration is done, and these are again sublegal acts that must be clear and precise, what it must say when it comes to chemical labels. Don't expect it, really, from people who, you have a lot of people who don't understand it and they don't know it, and he's gonna read it now. Please indicate to him that it contains certain. It's very small, it's exact research. They say out of the total amount and number of products declared, which are located in shelves, only a fifth of them have this warning that they can contain that and that. Why did the law oblige anyone who advertises certain pharmaceutical products to, you know, when a speaker, or one who follows an ad, speeds up and says – contact a doctor or pharmacist before using it, etc. Now, that must be on these items. We've had a lot of cases, just look through the press or like this, people and children end up in health homes, they don't know what hit them because it's dangerous. It's enough that it's a little bit of a change to be present in the product, simply someone tries it the first time. It's a new product for him, especially those imported ones, and then he's going through some kind of shock or something, God forbid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58546	Thank you. Replication rights, a proposing official, Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58547	I have to tell you and thank you for that, but now I've got one thing on my mind that maybe we missed as the Ministry to react in this situation, especially when it comes to the declaration. I think we might be able to do something like that when we change and supplement the law, and it's an obligation to put a bar code, and I'm going to suggest it along with the Alliance of Blind and Unsightly, to do an application that will help them have an app that reads their declarations, because I think it's very important. It will show a single social responsibility to us and care for this very group of people. I think it's going to be a qualitative step forward, I don't think there's a place in the world yet, but let's make it an initiative now, that when they change and add it just to be a commitment, that the declaration contains a bar code, and then that we can make that app that's going to help this group of people right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58548	I thank Minister Djordjevic. Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58549	And when we thought about it in Serbian, it's not enough, Mr. Minister, that someone thinks it's a Serbian language, and it's some Ustasha's new talk. That's exactly what happened, what I'm talking about, in Republika Srpska. Their parliament seems to me a few years ago, and not to mention the Russian regulations that are strict, has passed an amendment to the law where exactly what we are talking about and what is in this amendment, in use is the official Serbian language, and in Serbian you should write milk, bread, this article contains that and that. So you have a situation in these chains that you buy products that come from there and they're not in Serbian. It is not a declaration in Serbian, because they do not have their own language.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58550	Thank you. Replication rights, a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58551	That's right, of course. Not in a foreign language, in Serbian, but it will help not only this group of people, not only people blind and weak-sighted, but all citizens. It's so tiny sometimes and it's some experience that we all have. I'm wearing dioptria, but even if I don't have dioptria, I don't think any of us can see it. It will also help those who are lazy, who want to read the declaration and want to know and do not want to read. I think something like that will be the Ministry's proposal. I've spoken to people at the Department of Trade now, it's not inconclusive, it won't be forced to be right now, but that's a good idea, we're going to do it and try to animate that until the amendments and the addition of the law in some perspective, in the future maybe we'll live with it and show that we're socially responsible. I think we're doing a lot of work for people with disabilities, and this is going to be one major breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58552	I thank Minister Djordjevic. According to the amendment, the word has been sent by Stefan Miladinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58553	Thanks, buddy. Dear Minister, I have reported on this amendment precisely for the reason that I share your opinion, Mr Djordjevic, which is that this amendment, or the initiative of my colleague Natasha Jovanovic, is something that needs to be considered and it is good that you have recognized and it is good that you want to make an application for just one part of the population that is sensitive, which we should worry about even more. We've had various amendments all these years, the content of the amendments, whether they're deleted, which is common for the opposition, but this is one of those amendments that we can still say have a positive intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58554	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. Professor Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade in Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Congratulations, colleague Marinkovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Djordjevic, Minister of Internal Trade, I did not pass on to my colleagues from the SRS, told me that there has been a redistribution in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that you are now the Minister of Internal Trade, because you have mostly justified it in these few days, especially now that you are breaking up with SRS MPs and assessing what would be good to accept, if not now, in that next period, and Mr. Ljajic, he is the foreign trade minister and mostly narcotics, he follows it, from the east through Kosovo and Metohija, west and so forth. You are the Minister for Internal Trade and Tourism and Services, of course, telecommunications, we will see Marinkovic is doing well, perhaps he could take over, but it doesn't matter now. We have submitted an amendment to Article 35 of the Law, which refers to the price emphasis. The European legislation passed a directive in February 1988, protecting producers. It came into force in early March 1998 and this Article 35 took over those specific suggestions from that directive and that is fine. The price is something that interferes with customers and is a very important factor, whether they define something to buy or not. We are certainly for each product to be marked at a price. You said the price was next to the item. We say – around and above, below, whatever. We have a very practical reason for that. There are a large number of owners or entrepreneurs who have trades. You know when they'll read this bill? They never will. And it would be important if they read it too. For what? Well, because the provision of Article 67 of this Bill has been sanctioned, and that is not small fines, one who does not respect the provision of a member of the 35th Law, and especially with a larger amount of money, a legal person will be punished, a criminal will be punished and a responsible person in a legal person if this happens. Imagine, we don't talk about manipulations that way, we don't stand behind them at all. But here, big and megamarkets, hypermarkets, which have tens of thousands of items in their sales range, imagine that there is only one item, but next to that price. It will be sanctioned by the provisions of Article 67 of this Bill, and if it stands above and below, however, it is mostly important that this price is in a visible place for the consumer, although many may find it harder to manage, I speak primarily for hypermarkets and large sales facilities, but this applies to all sales places. Minister, I hope you can handle this or accept it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58556	Thank you, Mr. Perry. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58557	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also made remarks in the principle debate on the proposal for a law on trade, and we have indicated that there will not be much improvement in this area and we believe that the changes must have been much more serious. We have tried our amendments to fix certain members of this bill. Namely, Article 35. We have submitted a number of amendments to the bill and this member refers to the price emphasis and it defines the obligations of the trader when highlighting the price of the goods. You also provided for this legal standard to highlight the prices of goods sold or services provided no longer have to be highlighted in domestic currency, i.e. consumers are allowed to display the price in foreign currency. We are precisely at these positions which define the display of prices in foreign currency amended interventions, because the emphasising of prices in euro or in some other currency, and most often in euros instead of in dinars, can often confuse consumers and highlight prices in domestic currency will avoid any ambiguity and lead consumers into error, as it often happens to get a completely different impression of the price if it is shown in a foreign currency. This change is in line with our position which is clear and unequivocal, which is that prices in the Republic of Serbia should be highlighted exclusively in the currency of payment traffic of the Republic of Serbia, which is exclusively in dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58558	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Dragana Kostic has the word. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58559	Thank you, Chairman. I certainly disagree with the proposal for an amendment by my colleague from the SRS because here it refers exclusively to the fact that prices are expressed in foreign currency regarding tourism services and which are directly related to abroad. What does that mean? This means that we made 1.4 billion euros from foreign tourists last year, which is 6% more than in 2017 and that Serbia is the destination with the second largest overnight growth and arrival of foreign tourists in Europe in 2018. Fifteen per cent of foreign tourists' growth was recorded in 2018, compared to 2017, so about a million and a half foreign tourists visited Serbia. I can especially say that the visa-free regime towards China has also contributed to increasing the number of foreign tourists in Serbia. In the first two months of 2019, 54% of the arrivals of foreign tourists from China to Serbia are reported. Certainly, by eradicating this position in this Article 35, it would reduce revenues as regards the arrival of tourists from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58560	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The right to a replica has a national emissary, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58561	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that these views refer to electronic trade and are directed at consumers in the Republic of Serbia, but also to consumers abroad and says that the price can be pointed out in foreign currency, in a way that gives consumers the opportunity to choose a currency in which the sale price of goods or services from the entire supply of that trader will be displayed. And it is here that the Tourism Act is at stake, but then how do you explain the price emphasis in different dental offices, where prices are first shown in euro and then in dinars? The same goes for certain clinics, where prices are first shown in euro and then in dinars. That's exactly what we're talking about with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58562	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58563	Ladies and gentlemen, this member is talking about sales, seasonal downsizing and action sales. Trade also includes trade in media services, RTS, public service. Do we have the right as MPs, as citizens, to know at what price Dragan Gilas of RTS bought advertising seconds from the yellow Buicket? Do we have the right as MPs, as citizens, to know at what price Dragan Gilas of RTS bought advertising seconds from the yellow Buicket? Do we have the right to know how much media services are in that marketing section? Is it true that RTS together with Gilas made this kind of climate business, that if you buy a commercial directly from RTS it's more expensive than buying from Gilas? That Dragan Gilas was not only in RTS but also in some private media buying advertising space at one price and reselling it to a higher price. In this way, thanks to its function and trade in influence, he provided himself with an enormous wealth. Citizens who pay the subscription to the Public Service, which is supported by subscription and advertising, certainly have the right to know that, we as MPs, I think we have several times recovered the losses of RTS made thanks to the negative trade with Dragan Gilas. I want to know, and I believe fellow MPs, since commercial seconds have been sold, since they were sold by RTS, and since they were sold in the media market, as media services through advertising sold by Dragan Gilas? It's time the police and the D.A. told us that information and told us if there was an impact trade, if there was a resale and speculation, it's time for the D.A.'s office to tell us who he's after and by what member of the Criminal Code? I'm also asking, I'm asking the Public Service, I'm asking the Ministry, and here's where the Department of Commerce covers telecommunications? I'm asking the Department of Trade, when it's already covering telecommunications, not only about the poorer position of domestic media versus the fake cross-border, now I'm asking them the following, sports rights, to give us exact answers to whom RTS bought sports rights? Did he buy them directly or bought them from a company related to the United Group, United Media, the Darekt Media by Dragan Gilas with the companies of Dragan Šolak, David Petreus head of the CIA? Whether sports rights, transfers, purchases directly or as advertising seconds let Dragan Gilas, Solak and United Group, United media buy sports rights from the organisers although their media under their control do not cover the whole market and cannot, according to the Media Act, transfer to Serbia's territory and sports events. The question arises why someone who can't transmit the most significant events doesn't cover the whole market doesn't have free access through the antenna, why does someone buy sports rights when they can't transmit it? So he buys them because he knows they'll be resold by Bujosevic, the yellow Buicket RTS. And that's why we're interested in whether RTS bought sports rights directly from the organizers of sports events or bought it from the Diract Media, United Media, United Group, or from companies associated with Dragan Šolak, Dragan Gilas, David Petreus? We also want to know the price, to see how much Mr. Buke, the yellow Buke has been installed, it's the one that won't let me come in there to not talk about these cross-border, pirate televisions, false cross-border. So he doesn't care, even though directly his television is damaged because they're taking money from their commercials. He doesn't care what they do on the market, he's only interested in reselling. I claim that the second robbery of Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak, SVV, United Group, was a resale of sports rights, bought sports rights knowing they couldn't carry them, bought them with a goal, because they knew that yellow Buicke would pay for it far more. They knew they'd take the money, they'd give something to Buket and the RTS team, and they'd have a lot more left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58564	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58565	Thank you, Chairman. Unlike the previous amendment by Mr Risticevic, I would suggest that this amendment be accepted in the voting day, I will vote yes, while also joining the initiative and appeal launched by my colleague Risticevic, and that details of this, apparently, be learned from the large robbery of RTS. What I'd like to present as a sort of addition to my fellow appeal, which is to ask the question, is it true that 650 million dinars are damage that RTS suffered thanks to this robbery and this hoax with seconds and minutes when it comes to the Direk media and other Gilas firms. Just like he was messing with minutes and seconds that he was reselling seconds and minutes, so he's been buying political parties lately. We all know that Gilas bought a party that had a name by then, I guess, a party of the Green Party or something. A man came and bought a party. What's to torture? What to make a party from the beginning, what to visit Serbia, what to build a party infrastructure, what to form committees when it can come and buy for granted. What he's going to do with that party later, if he's going to resell it, that's already a question for him. Like his colleague Vuk Jeremic, who bought the party of that Alexic from Triestenik, the MP here at the National Assembly, also came and bought it for granted. What happens to that party afterwards, it's a question. Just like earlier, over those debts and mortgages that the DS came into and bought a party. And now he's trying to impose how the president of that Zelenovic party from Zapac, so he can gain absolute control in all the parties that make up the so-called. Alliance for Serbia. So, I hope that we will get answers to these questions as I hope that the investigation, the official investigation announced by the interior minister, will give an answer to this question and whether this, as Mr. Risticevic says, is a major robbery, and I doubt that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58566	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58567	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Markovic, it's not just about advertising seconds and reselling sports rights, it's not the only businesses of Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak, with the yellow Buket, the yellow Bukke that censors me. Here, I let him do it again, his TV said, there's an editor, to throw out some of my contribution, just because she listed it, she won't broadcast people from the farm. I downloaded my contribution to the harvesting remains, where, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, at their invitation, I said that it was dangerous and harmful to burn the harvest remains that this should be plowed. Those two sentences sometimes bother me. I don't think they mind those two sentences but some others, and I'm being punished for what I'm talking about, business RTS, black business, blackest corruption conducted by yellow Buke, Dragan Gilas, Dragan Solak. The yellow Buicket should be launched, that's what I'm saying, right away, until he changed his destination and went to Malta as well as the ones he trades with. Put that right in chains and locks. He's doing it for sure. He's doing it for sure. Tell him to get us information on whether he was buying sports rights from a dealer, and you'll understand. You'll know who's in it, who's in it, who's in it, who's in it. And all that damage through the subscription of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a public service and we have the right here to have that information. But that's not all. Remember the series that people play with money. A series, the first series of dozens of episodes, is funded by RTS, played by actors, cast team, technique, play everything, play and the audience, challenges audience interest and series after the first series suddenly change TV station and goes to TV station under the control of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak. As much as it costs, that's what yellow Buicke knows, and if what I'm proposing is done, I believe that that bird in the cage would sing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58568	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58569	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, article 37 speaks of a time period and quantity of goods to be sold out. I asked my amendment to delete this member. What was I looking for that for? Why deny traders the ability to determine for themselves what time period their goods will be sold out? Why should traders be free to decide for themselves what amount of goods they will be exposed to for sale? Namely, there's no law that can reach the merchants. It's the merchants who have to get along and they use all kinds of tricks to attract customers and place their goods. It has been known since Bible times, she says - it is easier for camels to pass through needle ears than for a merchant to enter the kingdom of heaven. However, it must not be interpreted literally, it does not mean the classic needle ears. In old Jerusalem at the entrance there was one narrow space where all camel caravans had to pass and he was so small that literally camels had to bend down to the maximum, so they could pass. So, I think this restriction to traders is completely unnecessary, because traders are the ones who have to get by. Even in that communist time, when it was not a full market economy but an agreed one, many producers, especially confections and similar products, blew up the price of goods and then put the same goods on sale. Those discounts went from 50 to 70%. That's what he used to do when he was ahead of May I. Of course, I have no intention of advertising anyone. So it's a completely unnecessary restriction of this kind on traders, that is, sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58570	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has a folk emissary, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58571	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I do not agree with the previous speaker that this member is prescribed that traders will not be able to determine for themselves when their goods will be on sale. On the contrary, this article only prescribes that traders will no longer be able to include and order the sale of new quantities of goods. So it prevents traders from cheating on our buyers of certain goods. The member of the law clearly states that the goods will be able to be sold out only in cases of full termination of the work of the trader, termination of work in certain facilities or termination of the sale of certain goods. So the goods won't be able to be returned to their shelves again if the sale is prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58572	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Col. Jovanovic, you want to follow the amendment, but before you reply, MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58573	Whether Honorable MP Čapić agrees or disagrees with my amendment does not matter to me or to her or to this parliament. But just what I'm talking about is something that requires, and the need is and the reality. Let's say, in time, here, now, almost there will be a season before school, where parents buy clothes, shoes, wardrobe to their children, and now, let's say, there's an artical sale. One contingent that was in the store was sold out, so according to this law, that same merchant should not order other goods from his warehouse, which could be in that city or another city, because this law restricted them. So this is directly directed against the parents, against the customers. It just doesn't make any sense in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58574	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. Comrade Charapiche, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58575	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The law defines exactly what a sale is, what seasonal reductions are and what a stock sale is. So what the predecessor was talking about were seasonal reductions, not sales. This is where the concepts are mixed, what's a sale and what's a seasonal downturn. The sale is one thing, seasonal reductions are the other, and action sales are the third. And it's precisely defined by law. When it comes to seasonal reductions, the law clearly defines that they can be prescribed twice over the year. So we have a summer and winter seasonal reduction in winter clothing and footwear, from July 1st to July 15th, and winter during the period from December 25th to January 10th. That's exactly what they do in all the developed countries of the world. Whether certain amounts will remain in the shelves or not, it's a matter of purchasing power. That's good because in Serbia, high purchasing power is high and that such goods are rapidly sold out for which seasonal decline is called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58576	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Right on line, MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58577	What the law says is, what's a reduction and what's an action sale and what's something else, that's one thing. The law can say that the country is a quarter, but it is the people who are direct actors, i.e. consumables of goods, so consumers. An ordinary man, for him is the same action, reduction, sale, etc. But that's not the point. The point is, this law prevents sellers from expanding the amount of goods they had on sale. If they had one of the items sold out at the store, this law does not allow them to obtain the same amount they already have, but which is already in the warehouse, which does not have to be there where the store is located. That's the point, but I guess it's the essence of every sale to meet the sellers and sell as much goods as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58578	Thanks, buddy. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Čaapić. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58579	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. That's what I was just saying, that the legal solution was precisely defined in which cases sales are prescribed, and in which cases we have seasonal reductions, in which action sales are being sold. So, when it comes to sales, it's only possible in three cases. They repeat once again, the complete termination of the work of the trader or the termination of work by certain facilities, or the termination of the sale of certain goods. So, if there's any goods on sale, she won't be able to go back to the shelves anymore, because she's on sale. In other cases seasonal reductions and action sales are prescribed, it is quite clear. It's good for the sellers, and it's good for the buyers. So the law is in full compliance with the Consumer Protection Act, which is the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58580	Thank you, colleague Charapic. The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58581	We have a session where we talk about amendments and I really expect that before... It's no problem, let whoever wants to come forward on our amendments and we'll do some of the others, but if your colleagues read it anyway, and it's your duty, you have the text of the amendment ahead of you, Mr. Chairman. I am reporting under Article 27 of Article 1 of Article 107 and Article 32 to refer to the previous case of colleague Čaapić, what is being discussed. She's completely mixed up in terms and what's going on here. He's talking about season sale dates and what season sale is. It's not the amendment of fellow Savic on that. My colleague Savic is talking about, it's a really big failure, pay attention, Mr. Minister, the inability for a shoe dealer, bananas, chickens, anything, to put on sale, a new amount of goods, if it is sold out at the moment... Remember that famous action in "Lidla"? Well, you have that in other places. You directly want to damage the customers. Most of the time, they're people of a weaker property and material condition. Come man, I'm a witness to that and you probably-- why isn't there? Of course, they say -- they'll come, they'll be here in the afternoon, we expect them to arrive. No, this is the law you say - it can't. What's in "Maxie", in "Lidl", in "Idea", in "Roda", is there, but it can't come from Belgrade anymore, from the central warehouse. He said the law, he can't. He writes well, and he asks to delete it - from publication of the sale until the end of its term the trader must not order, including the sale of the new quantity of goods that is subject to sale. That's exactly what this is about. It should be able to include a new quantity of goods, because people need that goods at that price. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58582	counterpart Jovanovic, just to get to the bottom of this, I have made it possible for dialogue between colleagues and colleagues. You noticed that during the debate, I didn't want to interrupt my colleague or colleague. I cannot predict how MPs will understand and how they will interpret the amendment and I cannot predict how they will speak. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. ) The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58583	Thank you. Mrs. Jovanovic, here is only an explanation and an explanation for the MP who tabled the amendment. So there's a difference between sales and action sales. In the action sale he, of course, has the right to represent and give at which price he gives a discount and amounts as much as he wants, but the road to hell is paved with the best intentions, so that if the sale were allowed in such a case, he deceives someone to stay at the end and it is known why the sale is. You know, you came into a situation so I could take out one glass and say, "I only have one glass." As soon as that glass is sold, you bought it because it's the last piece, and in fact it's so unfeeling and brings us all who we're buying into error that we just bought at a cheaper price because it's the last piece and that's why it's called the action sale at the price of that and it lasts until the stock expires and here it's said in this last position – the longest 31 days. Now, I've got one other thing on my mind, which doesn't exist here either, I've talked to my colleagues from the Ministry of Trade, and that's an example of good practice in some countries where there's a possibility when you have a sales announcement or an action sale, you're obliged to apply it, say, and say, in seven days, there's going to be an action sale or a sale. Now, that doesn't exist with us and there's no punishment for that. When you don't publish something like that and, say, I buy this glass for 100 dinars, and the next day he lowers the price to 75, I'm kind of fooled, because the day before that I didn't even know there was going to be a sale tomorrow, and I'm deceived to buy at a more expensive price. In these countries, with a bill, you can come and get those 25 dinars back. It's, maybe, an idea just. I said that perhaps in some subsequent change and addition, we use the example of this practice to introduce such a thing with us. So, it's a salesman's duty to announce and when he announces, everyone who buys was aware that at some point there would be a sale, but if there's no announcement, and it happens the next day, then it's a salesman's duty to make up for that difference to whoever bought it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58584	Thank you, Minister. (Natasa Jovanovic: Replica. You can't get a replica, you've had a bit of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The amendment has been submitted by a colleague and you can't get a replica. (Natasa Jovanovic: The minister addressed me directly. ) Right to replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58585	It may be, Mr. Minister, and the way you interpret it, but most of the time, it's like we wanted to change this text of the law. You see, we live in Serbia where it's very difficult. Here, we'll soon have the start of the school year, and then, let's say, the kids buy the necessary things. If that's what you say and let the action price last for a few days, and what are we going to do for those parents, then you're the minister of that, who, on that very day and while it lasts, doesn't? The sale, according to this law, has a longer deadline. If something's on sale in the long run, it's not the same, action and sale, and you said it yourself. Is that right? There's a clear difference and the point is, it lasts longer. Someone with money, they're gonna buy those shoes, that backpack, anything to the kid at that moment when it's action. If the sale, well in these big trade chains is no longer there, physically separated as it stands here, but it can come from the center, from Zemun, Novi Sad and I don't know where, in this long time period then it's more favourable for customers, because he knows, because usually people ask – sorry, it's sold out, when... You have these summers now, and you're here, and we don't agree with these dates, so that's what your colleagues are going to do later, but you have that long time period. It's a summer sale. It's not action. You also have winters, when it will come, and he says, "Here we will see." Yeah, there's a situation in Krushevac, in Vranje, and I don't know where, it can be ordered. By this law and by such a proposal you prohibit that trader from having another item or two or 50 pieces in the course of the sale of the message. Now, our intention was to remove it. This isn't a good solution at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58586	Thank you. Replication rights, a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58587	Well, you said so nicely. It's termological in law. You in your head need to know what a sale is, what a stock sale is. When you tell someone - we have a 31 day stock sale, it lasts or runs out of supplies, but you know it's gonna be that 31 day and it's like a salesman to you... If we're talking about September 1st, you'll definitely be leaving because of your vacations and you won't be on August 1st, but you'll certainly be looking to make it 20. If the sale is for that same September 1st, you will say – we have a pillow sale from last year and there are no new ones. It's that 10, 15, 20 or one that's existed since last year, and that's why she has that price. Then you hurry up, buy after that because when you say "sales" you didn't deceive him that there would be more, but you just told him to hurry up and buy that one, because after that there is no more. If you say "action", you can extend that action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58588	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58589	Sometimes on the spot, without notice, he finds out it's an action. When it comes to the sale, you've just mentioned the pillow, you're now saying that what's gone, and there's a model and something since last year, it's now on sale and it's gone and they can't bring the next amount. What if someone imported who knows how many thousands of them, and that's good? He can't, he won't. Okay, why can't he be on sale? Who's the one who's gonna limit some dealer, someone who wants to have action every day? You've really written one nebulose here, since then, it's a sale. First of all, we're not that manipulative, Western mental set, this is Serbia. Maybe some merchant wants to have a sale all the time, not to have the law tell him when he's going to have it. So these are some things that they don't actually want to live up to and aren't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58590	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58591	I thank you, Chairman. Obviously, there is a good intention for both the promoters and those who defend the amendment, but I also have to accept from some legal way of thinking and what is in some way disputed, which is why the amendment should not be accepted. In this particular case, it is essential that there is no discrimination, that there is no violation of the principle of non-discrimination, neither in the case of sellers nor in the case of buyers. For this reason, it is very important that this notional part be differentiated, means to make a clear distinction between the action sales in relation to the sale. For what? Because it's very easy to lead a customer astray. What's wrong? The error is to distort a certain fact, which is why the customer can create a picture that is completely wrong with reality. For this reason, I fully agree, I agree that there must be armed periods when it comes to the stock sale of goods, and when it comes to the sale, let's say, in a way, that, let's say, limit or limit the possibility of literally preventing any kind of misleading a particular buyer or consumer for a new quantity of goods that could be sold out. So here the concepts are very important on the one hand, on the other hand, they're also extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58592	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58593	Mr Jovanovic, Article 37(3) says, there are two members, one is, come on, I will read only those two positions: "The sale of goods is at a lower price compared to the previous price in the event of a trader’s termination, the termination of business in certain facilities or the termination of the sale of certain goods", very clearly defined. It says: “A stock sale is a sale of goods or services at a price lower than the previous price of the goods or services and lasts for a maximum period of 31 days”. Very nice, in other words, what is it used for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58594	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm now setting a break in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58595	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 37. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, talk about the Law on Trade, and ignore the basic postulates, I find that at the very least unfavourable. Trade is not a goal for itself, it is tasked to make the exchange between production and consumption, and to regulate other market relations. This is how you explained the reasons for not accepting the SRS amendment to article 37 absolutely does not stand. I guess the primary goal is to increase production. We have a constant hyperproduction of production, a question of placements and the possibility of placement of these goods is raised. There are various ways that what the market can accept, i.e. what is delivered to the market by production, should then allow all the opportunities available to traders to make those goods on the market reach the final buyer. It is essential that traders, i.e. the final consumer, pay sales tax, on the goods produced, and it does not matter which types of sales will occur at a reduced price. In particular, here we have applied that in Article 37 paragraph 5 of the seasonal downsizing of goods at a reduced price, after the season has passed, no more than twice a year, the seasonal downsizing begins between 25 December and 10 January, that is winter, and between July 1st and 15th, that would be the summer seasonal downturn. The European Union, or 27 or 28 EU member states, is only ten regulated in this way, and not so restrictively, but it is said that ten countries have some restrictions on the time when it comes to seasonal downsizing, or the sale of goods in seasonal terms, which is why we have then defined ourselves to limit the possibility of selling our goods if not all EU countries have done so. Although you have accepted the path to the EU as a dogma, this is more now related to some religious relations. Anyway, there are some things we need to look into. I think there are serious and sufficient reasons to accept this amendment and seasonal goods, or sellers, can on several occasions organize seasonal sales of goods. I don't see any reason to shut down, it could even be extended, it's common sales, like seasonal goods of textiles, equipment and footwear, of course, this could spread to a larger number of products to look for a larger quantity of goods, and thus production would develop more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58597	Thank you, Mr. Perry. She answered for the word, according to the amendment, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58598	Thank you, Chairman. I think the proposed amendment by my colleague is completely unnecessary, because Article 37 of Section 5 defines exactly what a seasonal downturn is. In addition to other types of low-price sales, it is said that the seasonal downsizing of goods is at a lower price after the season, and twice a year at the most. The seasonal downturn begins in the period 25 December and 10 January, and this would be a winter seasonal downturn, and July 1st and 15th, or summer seasonal downturn. So soon this summer seasonal downturn begins and the vast majority of us are preparing for this summer shopping to, for example, provide some of the top products, for example, from the spring-flight collection for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58599	Thank you, colleague Todorovic. Right on the line, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58600	There are, this fellow Martinovic as a university professor knows well, there are so-called. natural and social laws. This is about social law. The social law aims to regulate relations in such a way that it corresponds specifically to each entity, in this case it is Serbia. We want, and I said, we have the Trade Act on the agenda, and the basic postulate trade, the definition of trade exists, not in today's day, not in the 19th and 20th centuries, but from much earlier, and to honor these postulates, which is why we're jumping ourselves, or you're jumping yourself into your breasts, mouth, whatever you want, for whatever reason, and we talk all the time, that the more, the more people we hire. Here's a good opportunity for us to hire them in the real sector, in the manufacturing sector, and let those who do business and organize trade, because trade is not their goal. She's tasked with connecting manufacturers and end customers. Although there are often modern forms of trade and electronic trade, where there can be a direct link between manufacturers and end-users of their products, but standing right here, quite precisely, it is necessary to be written and read what is in the bill. We're putting up with that part of this article and we're saying that seasonal downsizing implies selling goods at reduced prices. I guess it's in the interest of Serbian citizens to get goods at more favourable prices, to make it as much as possible, and at this point it's probably appropriate to buy power and standards for citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58601	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58602	I believe that the bill offers sufficient opportunities for the goods on the market to be bought at reduced prices and it is defined that these are both sales and seasonal reductions, as well as action sales, and that this will fully meet the needs of our consumers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58603	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58604	Now, this is relative. Perhaps Mrdakovic has twice offered a term quite enough. He could have been once. I'm absolutely certain that you here in the bill of this law have said that the seasonal sale is any date. In Italy, each region has been left with the possibility of deciding when their seasonal terms will be, or season-sale terms. This is relative now. But I'm talking here about something important for the state of Serbia. The question here is not what is more relevant to SRS or SNS MPs or those who do not come or those who have ruined the potential of the economy and everyone else in Serbia, but what would be useful for the citizens of Serbia. And it is absolutely rational that what we have proposed means that there is no time limit, because you are always calling on how it has been done in EU member states. Here, I told you at the beginning, only 10 of the 27 or 28 EU member states accepted some terms. They're different, though. Only 10 accepted, and a much larger number didn't. We can and need some specificity to express. It may not even be necessary to organise a seasonal sale someday, but today it would be very useful and practical for Serbian citizens to buy goods under more favourable conditions throughout the year. I guess the goal is to sell as many goods as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58605	Thank you, colleague Perich. Just to point out that these were replicas, to record time. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58606	Article 38. The proposal for this law regulates advertising of sales incentives, and this member should not have been found in this bill, because in 2016, the Law on Advertising and Article 11 of that Law refers to misleading advertising, and Article 12 on disguised advertising, while Article 16 speaks exactly about advertising of sales incentives. So, a completely unnecessary violation of the law, if we have another law that normally refers to advertising. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. We have today, say, seen what one of these looks like, let's say, misleading or disguised advertising when, at the beginning of today, a colleague here talked about Natasha Vukkovic and how she advocated returning those MPs who boycott parliament, advocated returning to the National Assembly and then attacked those who are for boycott and then here we listen to something that, until two days ago, was absolutely impossible, when she was part of that group, that bulumente. Now she's changed her mind and suddenly there's a need to talk positively about her here. In this way they actually advertise and various reductions, etc., with the complete deception of the public of citizens who come to the shops and you know, so people make fun of it, although it's not funny, that in our stores you have a huge decline, something cost 300 dinars, and now it costs 299.99 dinars and this is simply the truth. As it is true, let's say that an article costs 420 dinars, writes large letters down, and now it costs 450 dinars. Nothing's been arranged, and this law won't fix it, simply because there's no interest in fixing it. If there were, then you wouldn't be plagiarizing this article 38, because this is pure plagiarism from these three members of the Advertising Act, but somehow when plagiarism enters the blood, then there's no law without plagiarism. Just because of this member, it would be good if Minister Rasim Ljajic were here. As part of the government, Rasim Ljajic is obliged to sit here and to listen to all the criticisms that we have prepared for him from the SRS and it is simply amazing that one of the MPs says – you have Thursday and Tuesday, so ask him. We have nothing to ask him. We're the National Assembly, he's the minister. It is the ministers who are thus subject to the National Assembly. Not only does the National Assembly choose them, but the National Assembly has both the right and the obligation to criticize them, to present its knowledge, etc. So, don't get some things that are absolutely incorrect to represent the public so that the citizens of Serbia now get the impression, what, that we're after something special, Rasim Ljajic. No, we've just established some details of what he's doing. Vojislav Seselj published in his book, but this is not all the reason why Rasim Ljajic, as minister, does not come to the National Assembly and we insist on that, and thank Mr. Djordjevic, who has obviously come to this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58607	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58608	Thank you. Mrs Radeta, Article 38, where you have proposed to delete, advertise sales incentives, has just been done on the basis of the Law on Advertising and here in Article 72(2), says Article 16. The advertising law puts it out of effect. This is just an updated Article 38 and an expanded fact about advertising sales incentives and is closer to being arranged. He was not a plagiarist, since the writer was the same – the Ministry of Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58609	Thank you, Minister. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58610	You're wrong, because we still have the 2016 Advertising Act in force. Imagine, since 2016, it hasn't changed once. It's an epochal success of the government. Now, I'm not saying it again, so, Art. 11th, 12th and 16th of that law predicts what's standing here and there's no need to... You know what would be best? Let's say, from that advertising law, you divide everything into different laws, where there's a place and then there's no such thing as a law anymore. There's no need for the same things to get back to normal twice. On the other hand, we're telling you, let's get all the crimes together and do something that's really worth it and what this country needs to do, to codify the Criminal Code. That's what nobody's gonna do, so with 100 laws, we've got 200 crimes that the guilty, the judges don't know about, because they're applying the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58611	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58612	Mrs. Radeta, Article 11. The advertising law says that this is closer to regulating misleading advertising, Article 12, covert advertising, Article 13 of the recognition mark, Article 14 of comparative advertising, Article 15 of the use of personal goods in advertising, which applies to other things and other products. Article 16, the one that's put out of force, is the same as this, and that's advertising sales incentives. He's closer set up here and put out of force in Article 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58613	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58614	It's not like that, of course, but now let's not waste any time and quote all three of these members of the whole. When the Law on Advertising was passed, it was said that this law was being passed and that it would cover everything that was related to advertising and then it is not. So you have to deal with yourself. The best thing to do is to accept this amendment and at least to fix this bill a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58615	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Alexander Markovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58616	I think I had the right to reply, given that I was misread in one of my presentations today, which concerns a colleague who is not with us today, Natasha Vukkovic. I have to say that I am not Natasha Vukkovic's lawyer, and I didn't want, in any way, to make a positive statement about her political activity. I felt the need to condemn a phenomenon in society, and this phenomenon is very bad and problematic and concerns the spread of hate speech and concerns an unauthorized dictionary who comes from those from the Alliance for Serbia, and it is Vladimir Gajic, who in the most simple way, insulted one lady, one MP or MP. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: One spy. I would not now enter such traits, but it is the MP of the National Assembly, regardless of which party he came from. Today, an SNS MP, tomorrow an MP from another side, is still in this case. So here we have one brutal insult from the representatives of the Alliance for Serbia who told DS MP Natasu Vukkovic that she is a poor, poor, impotent amateur. These are inadmissible phenomena in our society. I think as a society, we need to find models to prevent this kind of behavior in the future, to resist this kind of hate speech, spreading hysteria, as totally unacceptable behavior. One more thing, I'm not the only one who reacted and condemned this behavior. I may be the only one when it comes to this particular case, but we remember this Gajic and we know who his employers are, the same Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas. He doesn't do anything on his own, everything his bosses tell him to do. But we remember him, too, when he stood up and called for the ban on the entire political parties, including the party whose previous speaker belonged. And then we reacted, and then we condemned. I really think that as a society, we must condemn powerfully these phenomena so that they do not happen to us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58617	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58618	We heard what Vladimir Gajic said about Natasa Vukkovic, but from your ranks it was recently said that she is a spy who is muddying Serbia, who goes around the white world and all the worst stories about Serbia. So we heard from you. But Vladimir Gajic said on the same day, perhaps even in the same text, that Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal and that genocide took place in Srebrenica. Let's not be touched when someone so brutally insults Vojislav Seselj, your thing, and it should not be because of Vojislav Seselj, but because of the fact that he is not a war criminal, but that Gajic says – there is a genocide in Srebrenica. You don't mind, or you don't react, but when she insults Natasa Vukkovic, who announced a direct return here, then she needs to defend Natasha Vuckovic, so I guess that son-in-law of hers was to say that he was a half-France or I don't know, so he waited for Macron, etc. You know, don't throw dust in our eyes, you do whatever you want politically, you're right. You have the right to find ways to please the European Commission and bring back some MPs here in whatever way you think you should. But just don't do it in a way that makes it feel like we don't see it and we don't understand what you're doing. So if you're already responding to this Vladimir Gajic and similar to him, which I've never thought of very well, I've never said, which is neither professionally respected nor politically, therefore, I have the worst opinion of him. Then, when you follow what he's saying, at least now tell me that for the greatest conviction is that Vladimir Gajic said that genocide happened in Srebrenica. Let's talk about it for once, just from the heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58619	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on the line, Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58620	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't want this to turn into a competition today that will strongly condemn the statements of certain quasi politicians, if I may say so, about their statements, about how genocide happened in Srebrenica. So I don't want us to compete now. It is common knowledge that everyone in the SNS has come out in time for such pointless claims, these quasi politicians, not to mention now many MPs here who responded to such claims on the same day. Of course no one from SNS could ever accept the thesis that genocide happened in Srebrenica, and I have no intention of plowing about it. Now, this isn't really supposed to be a competition that's going to work harder. When it comes to Natasa Vukkovic, it will not be possible that no one from the SNS has made a positive statement about her and her performance. We here nicknamed her "the Duchess of Strasbourg", in the context of the false dukes, "the Duke of Maldives", that was Balša Bozovic, right? So he was “the duke of the pastures, ” the Sutanovac, who was nicknamed“ the warrior of Strasbourg. ” So, the SNS made it clear about its political functioning. We don't think much of her political activity, but we're ready to defend against the cruel and completely, I'll let myself say, idiotic attacks by someone worse than her. In this case, this Vladimir Gajic. The same Vladimir Gajic was willing to argue, apart from his senseless claims of genocide in Srebrenica, he was ready to claim that 60% of the people in Serbia are illiterate, and that that's why they have nothing to look for in the elections, because there are some illiterate people, and he's not ashamed that he said something like that, and that's why they won't go to the elections, because they know they don't have anything to look for in the elections and that's why he wants power on the street. That's the category we're talking about here, people like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58621	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58622	It wasn't that long ago. Okay, here's three and a half years ago when permanent delegations were formed. Natasa Vukkovic wanted to be a member of a delegation in Strasbourg, in the Council of Europe, because she went there for years because she had her connections there, her channels, which were of course not in Serbia's interest. They couldn't get that place by those proportions that were then calculated. Now, just as it's possible that she's an honorary member of that delegation, and she's going back in there doing whatever she wants, talking about what she wants, etc. As for the plea, you say -- we're not gonna compete who's gonna be stronger or louder, I don't know what he's saying, that there wasn't a genocide in Srebrenica, you could have been so loud that you wanted to. We have suggested that as a criminal offence in the Criminal Code, a criminal offence be brought in that anyone who says publicly that Srebrenica was a genocide. If you wanted to be very loud, you should have voted for it, because you're going to have a majority, we don't, we just suggested, but of course it wasn't something interesting for you at the time to adopt it. You are well aware that there is an increasing rumor that one of Serbia's conditions on the road to the EU will also be recognition by our country that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. It's amazing to us that someone in the current council might think of doing something like that, but you know you never know, nothing is known, here this morning, when I heard Vladimir Djukanovic's column, something goes through a man's head. He also calls out to Vukic why he didn't do what he promised, why they didn't resign some who were supposed to take it. Then I guess right now in that mess, in that fight that I'm not exactly gonna be the one to point the finger at, then here we're listening to everything and all kinds of defenses unguarded.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58623	Thank you, colleague Radeta. We're moving on with our work. These were replicas. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58624	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 40. Proposal for a law on trade. In my amendment, I asked that member to be deleted for reasons that all traders in our market would have an equal standing. The government must not favour any subject on the market, no matter how justified it may be, it always carries with it certain corruption. I guess the government's goal is to contain itself, not to promote corruption in trade. Our market is too open to foreign entities. That's why the government has to take care of all the details. The government's main objective in this area should be to protect every commodity producer, especially the agricultural producer. Speaking of agricultural producers, what does the government do to help agricultural producers on KIM? Since I was born and lived in KIM, I know that agricultural producers in my Kosovo Pomoravlje still produce very high quality products today, but unfortunately they have no one to sell them to. I know it's not easy for the government to solve these problems, but there's got to be some way to help these people. This is not just a matter of free trade, this is a matter of strategic national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58625	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58626	Thank you. The Article of the 40th Law refers to incentive measures to improve trade. I would like to emphasise the special importance of this Article 40, especially when it comes to electronic trade. What was recorded in the last year is that 1,800,000 consumers made purchases, i.e. on the internet, that is, for 130,000 more customers on the Internet than in the previous 2017. The objective of this member of the law is just to curb the gray economy. What is focused on SNS and what is one of the objectives of our policy is just to curb the gray economy, from which, of course, corruption can also arise, etc. What I also want to point out is that our currency dinar in the previous year is marked as the second most significant and important currency in the world. During the robbery of the yellow doss company, the dinar was nowhere on that list. I would also like to point out that last year, the National Bank of Serbia introduced an instant payment system under a Digitalisation project to improve the quality of life of citizens. What does that mean? This means that citizens on their cell phones can make purchases of what they care about. This also means improving trade, but this also means that the user of funds, i.e. that payment, or transfer from one account to another, is possible 24 hours in just 1.25 seconds. I find Article 40 very important, I don't think it should be deleted. And as for the situation of our population in Kosovo and Metohija, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Aleksandar Vukic daily show how much they care about the security, security and quality of life of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, which they, of course, show in the elections, giving growing support to SNS and Alexander Vukic's policies year after year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58627	Thank you. There's a word, according to the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58628	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, I respect the initiatives or motives of the promoter to submit such an amendment, but I must immediately point out that the full law is more than anti-corruption and that exactly the member to whom the amendment is proposed and directed is exactly what I just said, which is a ban on discrimination, i.e. that in an equal way is treated and that all traders are placed in an equal position. But what is very important is that it is very important to point out the fact that here the proponent, dear colleague Filip Stojanovic, pointed out something that we, as MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, are very well-recognizable. It is true that fighting corruption is imperative. Unfortunately, this imperative did not exist when agricultural cooperatives were destroyed, and it was a huge number of farming cooperatives, when agriculture was devastated, and I must remind myself that it was the period from 2000 to 2012. Only in the Zlatibor County is no less than literally destroyed, so driven into bankruptcy by nearly 20, if not more than 20 agricultural cooperatives. In this way agriculture has been brought into a very, very unfavourable position, of course as a branch, of course as a resource, from which citizens have and how great benefits. Why? In view of the fact that agricultural cooperatives were the best possible service for agricultural producers, both in terms of purchase and in terms of everything that was protected by agricultural producers. In this way, literally by destroying everything that represented one great value of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia was led to a very, very unfavourable financial position, not to say the beggar stick. Since 2012, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia which recognised this problem, which has managed to address this problem, something has been happening only in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is, on the one hand, the revitalisation of agriculture, on the other hand, the resuscitation of agricultural cooperatives, through the work of the government, the minister without portfolio, but in charge of this very issue. That is why I support initiatives and motives of distinguished counterpart Filip Stojanovic, but I cannot support the amendment's proposal, only because the law in this part is very precise and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58629	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The title above article 41 was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58630	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. All right, the amendment proposes that the title above article 41 be changed and that instead of "Unfair Competition" it reads: "Unloyal Competition". I mean, it's absolutely acceptable, because they both mean the same thing. But here's what I was gonna say. This is the case in Article 41: “A unfair competition, namely unfair competition, is a trader or service provider directed against another trader, a service provider, or a competitor that violates codes of business morality and good business practices which cause or may cause damage to another trader, i.e. a service provider, i.e. the competitor’. Now, you see, we were just talking about MPs boycotting parliament. So, in this case, they're unfair competition. You see, all the time in this House, we have been talking to the citizens of Serbia who have chosen us, both us and the gentlemen of the SRS. But to whom would the opposition MPs boycott this parliament? They cannot turn to the citizens who voted for them in the previous elections, because they failed them when they sold their mandates to Gilas and Jeremic, in fact the votes and trust of these people well cashed in and benefited themselves, but they did not return anything to the citizens, and apparently they do not feel the need for this people to represent them here in parliament and I am clear, as most in Serbia do about what their intentions are. The fact is, they don't like to cover up their lives by playing the victim, and the way it's devoid of them saying it's a lie. Mr Risticevic presented information in this parliament on the duration of their discussion before the boycott. When these data are extracted from the National Assembly system, it is clear that they spoke more than the ruling coalition MPs, and there are far more of us, so according to the Rules of Procedure, of course, and it belongs to more time, because we have won more mandates. There, such unfair competition is at stake within this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58631	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 41st Amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58632	It is not true that it is also an unfair competition and unfair competition, because this term "unfair competition" first appears in this law, not only with us, but anywhere. But we spend all day in this debate, and what's great, we support, we listen to some things that are related to earlier events, to some former governments, and we certainly need to shake things up a little bit, every time we're able to talk about it, but we're constantly left without answering our essential questions. First, if spoken, speak to a colleague earlier on about the yellow thieving, tycoon, dossal company, etc. Well, the one who was supposed to be here today, which is Rasim Ljajic, is the feather of that yellow doss, criminal, thieving, as they all call it, regime. It's the same thing, we said yesterday, here, we'll do it again today, and Djelic and Labus and Vlahovic, and it's all true. But the only question we have no answer to is – how is it possible that all these people are free, aren't there no criminal proceedings against them, that no one touches them, that many continue to participate with both the state and with some public enterprises and with tycoons, etc., in various dirty jobs? It is true that when we talk about sales and trade, it is true that all major sales facilities, malls or almost all of them were built in places where factories were once, factories that were purchased in thief's privatization two years by contract, so the contracts were concluded, for two years they were obliged not to change their performance. Those two years didn't do anything, two years passed, those people on the street, and so 500,000 people lost their jobs. And in all these places, therefore, today your shopping malls are whose work we're talking about, among other things, through these amendments. The question, let's say, is how can it be said here yesterday, and not just us, about Bozidar Djelic, about the 11m euros he stole in Serbia through Meridian Bank. As it is possible for him to become the business partner of the Government of the Republic of Serbia from Meridian Bank, he welcomes Macron as co-owner of the vansi airport, which is the concessionary of the "Nikola Tesla" airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58633	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word now has Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58634	Thank you, Chairman. It's true that we're talking about some former governments, past times, past and past events, but the truth is, for the sake of your will to determine what the situation is today, you have to make comparisons with something in the past, or anything in society at all. To determine that I'm a few pounds or a few dozen pounds heavier than the chairman, we have to stand on the scale, that's a fact. So in order to determine today's situation and bring some objective judgment about it, we must make a comparison with the past, and that is why it is good for someone to do so in this House. But let's get back to the present. It is not easy to fight in an unfair and unfair competition or for those who are the bearers of this trade activity, but not for people in political life in Serbia. Yesterday you saw a title in the daily newspaper "Blic" that speaks of the waste in the town of Subotica, about the cost of six million dinars on restaurant costs, and this is one example of a unfair and unfair competition, primarily in politics. In fact, the public works, the truth works, only 720,000 dinars are planned for restaurant services this year in Subotica. Thus, six million dinars could not be spent in the first six months of this year. It's a ninefold lie. And that's one example, to say unfair, or unfair, political games. However, if you look further at the text in the paper, it is said of the House of Culture in Tavankut and the failure of the Serbian state's obligations towards the local community, and then if you get a little deeper into it, you will realize that the state has so far invested 27m from the province's secretary and 20m from the city budget in the House of Culture in Tavanakut, resulting in the election in Tavankut. Just ten days ago, the SNS list led by the mayor, with our partners from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, won over 70% of the vote in Tavankut. Now, that's exactly what the work and the nerado and our response to the unfair and unfair competition is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58635	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. She's got a right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58636	Well, here's a colleague, I guess, just explained the difference between unfair business and unfair competition. If this is what the newspaper published and what it's talking about, if that's what it really is, then it can be said whether there was unfair competition in choosing that restaurant where that money was spent, etc. If that's true, the fact that my colleague says it's not true, I'm not getting into it right now, I'm just trying, since he took that example, so that I explain on that case. If that's true, then there's only that president of the municipality that can be unfair, because he got into one of those jobs. And that's quite nicely explained what unfair competition is, what's unfair about trade in addition to unfair competition can only be talked about the monopoly. Now, if that only bar, that restaurant in Subotica, was a restaurant that serves all that expensive stuff where the six million were spent, if it was spent, it would be a monopoly. So, my best friend, Vujadinovic, explained that our amendment is good and that our amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58637	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go, buddy. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58638	Some of the most important words in my distinguished colleague's presentation, if that's true. Is it true it's very simple to determine. Any experienced politician or any responsible man can first and foremost determine this by taking into account the budget of any local self-government, any autonomous province, or at the end of the Republic. I repeat, in the budget, a total of 720,000 dinars were planned in the city of Subotica's budget for restaurant services. The lie in the paper was that six million dinars were spent in the first six months. That's my answer to whether it's true, and we invite anyone to determine whether it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58639	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58640	Well, both such inscriptions and various other inscriptions in some media are actually talking about the dishonesty of these media, they talk about how proselytic they are, how anti-Serb and so on. I repeat, I'm not going into solving this problem at all because it's everyone for other organs. Says colleague Vujadinovic, just looking at the budget plan and seeing. If the city of Subotica was just making a budget, and it wasn't discussed and the committees didn't have a chance to see the final budget account, then we still don't have a solution, because he said in the Republic. In the Republic, I remind you, we haven't had a final budget account in ten years. Since we are always honest and correct politicians, here and now I'm going to say to the public, Minister Sinisha Mali here said that ten final accounts have been prepared and that we will receive them in September. So if that's the case, we'll see and then through those final accounts we'll see and how loyal, unfair, how monopoly, how unfair. We'll see in the end, here, if there's a better example, another better example than that from Subotica for unfair competition, Zorana – Scott – "Bechtel", 300m euros. As it comes to "Bechtel" getting a job, some will now cry out that it is not true, that Bechtel did not get the job, so I will have to find that Vucic's statement, Natasha, please, if there is a replica to tell me when he said it. So, through this we will see and on this case we will see how correct our amendment is and how much reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58641	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The right to a replica has a colleague, Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58642	Examples from Subotica, I think that Subotica can essentially serve as an example in many areas, if you're going to end up an example of action, a coordinated operation of local, regional and state authorities, and here's what examples are. Aqua park on Palic, Y arm in Subotica, works on National Theatre, works on infrastructure in local communities, and many other projects. If we're talking about a specific thing, I think it's clear to everyone and I repeat again that you can't drink half a liter of water from a bowl that can fit a half liter. You can't spend six million dinars if it's planned and planned 720 thousand, it's simply impossible and it's a lie and a lie that came out in fact and the local politicians' kitchens which are in fact the exhibits of Jeremic and Gilas and Obradovic's group, and perhaps some of them I say wider circles. If we are already talking about what is true and what is stated in the text, I must say, that it is true that the home of culture in the Tavankut is at a rather final stage and it is true that the state of Serbia, I am talking about the province and I am talking about local self-government, invested 47 million dinars in the home of culture and that its equipment is under way, that the public procurement has been completed, and that for the benefit of all the citizens of Tavankut, this job of home culture equipment will be completed. It is the citizens who gave the right answer to it, and they gave it ten days ago, and the response is 70% of the vote for the list led by the Serbian Progressive Party and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58643	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will repeat my dissatisfaction with the absence of a resolute minister here today, especially having been in all the authorities since the Petoctobar coup, and thus he was in power with those who carried out the country's economic genocide. My amendment refers to Article 41, which refers to an unfair competition or unfair competition, but I will continue to talk about my vision of this bill. The three-year analysis contains modest data from 2003, 2004, 2009 and 2012. The question is, can the lack of data be followed by trends and used to falsify data? Everything can be thicker, but what's the effect? Let's download everything into statistics and say we don't need data for all the laws, but, you'll admit, it's easier to work on a sample base, i.e. Assessing. If nothing else, it's less binding. The bill states - Transport data to the level of an individual sales facility are necessary to analyse the state of trade and its planning. Their planning will form a database on the trade network of the Republic of Serbia. Please, this translation means that we in Serbia don't have a trading network and that everything goes well. In principle, new laws are passed when basics are laid, when the system of institutions is established, but with us there is a strange manner - old laws are easily brought down, and they are easier to bring forward. With us ministers have an irresistible desire to propose and pass laws, as if the area would be recognised by them. The new law is, then, the measure of their success. Thanks for the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58645	Thank you, Professor Boyich. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 41st amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58646	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are on Article 41. The proposal for a law that prescribes or prohibits unfair competition has been submitted by several amendments. We asked this amendment to add point 7 to point 1 of the amendment, which reads: "Unauthorized use of the services of a trade representative or representative of another trader", because we believe it is necessary to place this point in unfair competition. Unloyal competition has destroyed Serbia's economy. In fact, agricultural products from abroad are privileged on our market compared to all those produced in Serbia. Our farmers and agricultural production are suffocating cheap products from the European Union for which customs duties are not paid. These products are often, i.e. mainly worse quality than products produced in Serbia. The unilateral application of the SAA has enabled the import lobby to do whatever it wants on the Serbian market. What we have to do to protect our own market is to return customs to EU goods, to those who have customs duties against us to return these same customs duties to them. The aim is for domestic production to be protected, not exposed to competition from countries that give large subsidies to their producers. So to prevent unfair competition, you have to set up customs barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58647	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58648	I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, because the proposed supplement is the subject of establishing the law governing bond relations. Namely, in Article 41. The draft law prohibits unfair competition, i.e. unfair and market games in a narrow sense, as well as preventing violations of the Code of Business Morality. Namely, private-legal protection has been prescribed and taxed in which it consists. All of this is due to the fact that trade is a segment of the economy in which there is growing competitiveness, competitive fighting on the market and for this reason, not only for the purposes of analysis of the trade network, but also for the purpose of managing trade and its planning in the territory of the whole country, as well as fair and equal business conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58649	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58650	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, we have been discussing changes to the Law on Trade and all that is within these areas for a few days. We've come to the point that we've started here to discuss some of the most banal things, and to attach great importance to it, as if tomorrow it's crucial for our progress and success in that area. For example, time of compulsory sale, exact season, i.e. A period of the year when merchants are supposed to have a sale. It's just that in itself it's banal, and secondly, we're trying to look at some persuasive model of the behaviour of a consumer society, so we think now that if we get their consumer habits that it will help us here in our further work on implementing new laws, that is, legal solutions coming from the EU, so now at a time of Catholic Christmas, when we traditionally sell out in Western countries, that we also organise here, that we fully adapt our behavior, and that will then reflect our progress on the path of European integration, can someone really believe that adopting such a modernity will help us really, especially that it is necessary to do so in Serbia? I don't think so. I think it's hiding from the real problems we have. We have been listening to representatives of the ruling majority these days, where they all talk about how DS, DOS, October 5, the yellow company, or how it has already made Serbia sick and robbed for its 12 years, the government in Serbia, 16 years of government in the province, and we see that every MP from the ruling majority is quite good at that matter. He knows exactly where and what and how who stole it, and there are no convictions, there are no people under investigation, there's nothing, and then we have one of the DOS leaders who's dealing with this portfolio, former DOS leader Rasim Ljajic, one of the 17 or 18, as many as there were. So, October 5th is our fault, DOS is responsible for everything, but Rasim Ljajic is a good minister. Not everyone in Serbia understands the system divides authorities, but it is devastating when it is not understood by ministers. The function of the National Assembly is to control the government's work. The assembly is the highest body in Serbia. So, ministers are obliged to always be in the Assembly when there are laws on the agenda belonging to that portfolio and where this ministry appears as a proposing and to present what has been done so far and what is the plan to be done in each of these portfolios. And we act like it's perfectly normal that Rasim Ljajic said he had better things to do than be in the Assembly when his laws are in order, i.e. laws in the area of trade. So Rasim Ljajic has better things to do than to be at work. There, it's just enough to understand the degree of democracy in our political life. Then the minister thinks that the Assembly is just one formality, where two days of discussion or three days of debate will pass, some amendments will be read, if there are some amendments that do not question fundamental changes, language errors changes L to O, etc., then it will be adopted, and everything else has no meaning, time will pass, so we will pass the law. That's the wrong thing to do in our political life. We cannot hope for any progress, especially if we compare ourselves with European countries while we have such a situation in the congregation. It would be normal for Minister Djordjevic to explain the laws that are in the social affairs portfolio and the minister of trade here to explain why this is proposed to change now. But no. What is Serbia's main problem in this field is the famous Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If we're expecting it, that's it. The then government as something extraordinary for Serbia that will open the door to the modern world, bring us closer to Europe, here's 10 years, we haven't gone anywhere, but that's why we've completely threatened our market. We have threatened our small businessmen, traders and entrepreneurs, domestically, and we think that their position will be fixed by some trivial legal solutions, by copying some of the acts coming from the EU, by copying and translating from the English language, and that in itself it is enough to solve this problem. Well, it's not. When he thinks like that, he's wrong. We're talking about protecting unfair competition here. We will not, calling for protection from unfair competition, in these things solve our main problems. We are calling on how it is for the competition, since we have a competition, it is not good for someone to be informed otherwise, i.e. less than other maybe participants, and then we have a situation that the Ministry of Transport boasts in advance that a contract with the famous "Bechtel" will be signed without any tender, as if we are acting like no other firm exists to build roads in Serbia. Opponents of such a procedure, these methodologies, are declared enemies of construction and as if these people are against the highway. That's what's crazy about all this. So if we, Serbian radicals, point to irregularities, point to things that directly disrupt our economy, we cannot be enemies of the economy or, in this case, the highway. You know, political campaigns are very interesting, especially when compared to what one party's representatives talk about in the campaign and what they do afterwards. If we have a situation that a domestic businessman is in every way discriminated against by the state, and is encouraged by investors, what situation can we expect here on the long term? Foreign investor, i.e. a foreign businessman who comes to invest in Serbia, does not bring us fire, does not bring us a wheel, something new we don't already know, it comes here because the state of Serbia gives sometimes more than 10,000 euros per job, gives all possible permits and documentation by accelerated procedure and free of charge and all that more land presents, that after, and none of us have security, plus wages are much lower than those to which the finance minister and the president of the Republic are praised, and how we can have the certainty that when that period is up, the subsidy expires, i.e. The profits that the investor takes without and that he has started working in Serbia, that he will remain there? Remember what happened to Smederevski Iron? We had a similar situation a few years ago when "Esmark" wanted to get into that "Gealesar". We were the first to warn about the crime on the pier. Before the 2016 election. But no, the EU's recommendations are much more important than the European Commission's directives, but indeed what we think should be improved in our economy. You know, Alexander Vukic won the presidential election. More than 50% of Serbia's citizens voted for him. He won in the first round, and that's the result of respect. Obviously, the people in Serbia have confidence in it, but it can't be a counterargument in any debate -- we have 50%, when you have 50% you do something else, you're not automatically right about what we have 50%. No, I don't. When 50% is won, i.e. When a majority is won in the National Assembly, it does not mean that anyone can do what they want and that he is automatically right and that he is smarter than some others, it means that it is an opportunity to come to power in Serbia, but the law must be implemented. We can't do something that would be contrary to the interest of our citizens or against the law to ask for an excuse, but well, it doesn't matter, we won 50%, so now we have the legitimacy for all our decisions. It's wrongly set. That is why I would like to see a little more of this taken into account, because nothing this will bring us closer to the EU, and in particular it will not speed up our trade and the position of our businesses in Serbia. We need to focus on the main problem. The main problem is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which opened the door for foreign goods in Serbia without customs duties and made our businesses uncompetitive on the domestic market. In the long run, too much dependence on foreign investors will put us in a position to keep them in charge of all matters in Serbia and the lobby. It's not that far from today. When we get rid of it, then we can talk about progress. With the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in addition to the fact that it is obviously causing great damage to the sprries, political conditions and blackmails from Brussels are also going. No one cares about Serbia's development in the EU. If their interest exists, it's exploiting our market for their goods, and that's what our businessmen will be in after that, it's negligible and no one cares about it in Brussels. But you should be interested in someone in Belgrade. The Serbian Progressive Party came to power by interrupting 12 years of DOS' long rule, on October 5th, the DS, as it is already called, does not matter. And we know what crime was followed by that power for those 12 years and 24 controversial privatisations and a huge robbery of Serbia, and trade with our territorial integrity, etc. What they won the election for is because they promised to break such a practice and question everything the DS has done by then. And we have a situation that in more and more fields, in more and more spheres of society, we can see that instead of discontinuity there is exactly continuity with DS policy. That's where you should pay attention. Instead of reviewing all these decisions, including the SAA, we are now acting as if it were a stone around our necks. Well, it is a rock around the neck, but let's solve that problem. Promises will never be fulfilled that come from the EU. Take a look at the example of Macedonia. Macedonia has clearly pledged to start negotiations, join the EU, speed up NATO integration, aid in terms of grants, loans and donations, etc., if it signs an agreement with Greece. A little more than a month has passed and the EU has forgotten its promise and has not yet opened negotiations. Keep in mind that a similar situation can happen in Serbia, and that what we are talking about today and the other things that bind us to the EU, the negotiating frameworks, the directives and everything else will not bring us anywhere, nor will it bring us closer to EU membership at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58651	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Just to let you know that the time of power has expired, that you've used the time and time you've had for two minutes to replicate, so there's time left for the MPs' club. I apologize for the amendment for two minutes, and I've included another 13.54, how much time you've had as an authorised representative. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right to replication, to mention the political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58652	It'll be two minutes, don't worry, Mr. Chairman. The question of where will lead us to develop political and economic relations with the EU, or to what the SAA or any other way, the platform, call it whatever you want, that we develop relationships, I think it's clearly visible, the example works, maybe two, or three details. First, based on our relations with these agreements, which were mentioned earlier, but not only on them, primarily taking into account Serbia's interests, we have succeeded in a wise, smart policy that today, from this very space, this area which is callfully European, attracts significant investments in Serbia, much better and much more convincing than in any previous period, as much as anyone has critically treated him or praised him. Much better and much more convincing we are bringing investments from that space to Serbia, and then, by organising production here, by organizing those jobs that we have made this kind of responsible approach, we now have a placement, we now have exports to that very European space, and about 70% of Serbian exports, it is seen by structure, it goes right into those countries. So that way we have useful, plus, useful, for Serbia, of course, for Serbia, for no one else. And we don't care at all about the benefit of anyone else or anyone else. We're only interested in the good interest of this country, but it's an indication that it can be realized when serious, responsible policy is being conducted and when it comes to the result, not the personal chef and his own pocket, as those representatives of the yellow company, tycoon representatives, etc., and what is already said about them today. That's right. That Serbian firms have their place, of course they do. Here, let it be an indicator of one last year, for subsidies and anything on the subject, this country signed 24 contracts last year, in 2018, of 11 with companies, both foreign and 13 with companies from here. And then someone will say that there is no equality, that there is no way for our businesses, 13 for ours, 11 for those who are not from Serbia, last year alone. The last thing, continuity with what is called both yellow and thieving and tycoon, is rightly called. I agree, it needs to be interrupted wherever there's a possibility. What about Old Town? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? It all kind of seems to me that when some damage is done, it doesn't matter if he offered someone a place in a larger or a local company. Too bad for citizens is a shame for citizens, in that if you criticize it, you never participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58653	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Mr. Seselj has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58654	We, first, to talk about the interruption of continuity, I guess first we should come to a republican level, to power, and then promise such things, as the SNS did. You know, as you often practice it, SNS, local committees that achieve some local result have autonomy to form a coalition in their places with parties or groups of citizens who cross into that municipality of censorship and make up the local parliament. You are, if you want to break up that continuity, so I guess you should get rid of DOS leader Rasim Ljajic first. I guess it should be basic. You know, you can't transfer us anything, any machinations, any crime in any of Serbia's municipalities, or when we've self-rule in the Zemun municipality for many years, and now that we're in some municipalities the ruling majority with some other political parties, and also where we're the ruling majority with the SNS. If the problem is Old Town, then you should first set an example, to break up the coalition in Novi Sad with Nenada Chanka. There's Nenad Canak, former regime. Mr. Atlagic said everything only in the past two weeks about Cank, and he is a coalition partner of the SNS in Novi Sad. I'll be done in ten seconds, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm just saying it can't be that automatically everything that comes from the west, i.e. from Brussels, it's good for Serbia. All decisions need to be reconsidered. I'm not saying that everything was bad, but most of it was bad, yes, and with foreign investors coming to Serbia, import is increasing, not exporting it, and our economy is completely devastated. That's what we need to think about and solve problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58655	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58656	When capital comes, on the basis of what it has come, some production is organised, so it is produced in Serbia, and that is how exports are produced, and that is how exports grow and that is what it means. And that export growth, that's official data. From year to year, it can be monitored how exports from Serbia grow and where exports grow, and on these very markets that I was talking about earlier. It's simple stuff. You can't possibly have to explain it to someone how it works. That the question of investment and the question of creating new jobs and the question of promotion of exports can be useful, of course, but the prerequisite for that is what I just explained, that someone about it is right, that they think it's important, that they work on it because it's important and that they fight for the result. Then you can. Without that, he can't. That's why at a time when Alexander Vucic and SNS are taking care of Serbia, and it couldn't have been at a time when those with whom, as far as I understand it now, there is a double policy. At the local level, there is a policy of continuity with them, and at the republican discontinuity with them. But you'll have to make up your mind. When you say – it's no good for the former regime, it's no good Dragan Djilas, it's no good for Boris Tadic, it's no good for Marinika Tepic, or it's no good or it's no good anyway. It can't work on Old Town, and in Old Town it's not Nenad Canak, it's directly Dragan Djilas, but directly Marinika Tepic, but directly this Todorovic we talked about on the topic of scandalous statements about Srebrenica. They're all with Bastac, shoulder to shoulder, at that chair table, when their party gathers, as they call it, Freedom and Justice. With these people being in a coalition in Old Town, I think that's a question for whoever claims to be in favour of some discontinuity. For what? Here, let's make one example, a purely local question, because when you say it can't be changed, for example, some plan to spend money on an annual level. Here, on behalf of this Gilas, and Marinika Tepic and others, Bastic makes a decision of 15 million for the engagement of some persons under official contracts change within a month or two on three, to 50 million. Whose money is it, and who's the money going to go to? Is it for paying those phantom firms again, is it for maintaining good connections with various criminals from the region? I think those are questions for whoever says, with such continuity you don't need. We agree, we don't differ at all about the attitudes we're going to take here. We agree that with such continuity, there is no need, but it is a matter of action. Is it proven by the actions of the coalition being maintained, accelerated and strengthened, or by breaking up? It's a simple thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58657	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Mr. Seselj, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58658	It really doesn't occur to me to defend Mark Bastache. Great, if you found evidence of crime, arrest him, let's see, it's a process, so let's see what happens if he commits crime. Let us know if there are any Serbian radicals involved? I don't think so. Nenad Canak is in the coalition with the SNS in Novi Sad, and here we can hear, about this same Chanko, all the worst of the SNS MPs. I agree with everything Mr. Atlagic said about Cank. He says it in a funny way, but mostly he says what the Serbian people think about him and you hold him in power. Until recently, up to 20 days ago, the SNS was a coalition government in the Meroshin municipality of Nisavska County with DS. By 2016, I think, in the municipality of Rakovica with DS. It is now us who support October 5th, the former Mark Bastic regime, and the advances when they support Canka, when they support Ljajic, when they support Ugljanin through Ljajic, when they have coalitions across Serbia with DS, then they are the biggest opponents of the yellow company. It can't be like that. A foreign investor in Serbia has been privileged against domestic investors. They don't bring us anything new, nothing we've never heard of before or haven't seen or been able to produce, and they're profiting. Customs has been released, and then all the re-promatter they import comes without customs. This gradually weakens domestic economy. An import lobby is indeed a major problem in Serbia. Those in power, if they care about the standards of Serbian citizens and their better standing, should be accounted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58659	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has Dr. Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58660	Among the amazing things to explain, it is also that what is produced in Serbia is the product of domestic economy, that one company, one company, is formed here, that it employs 100, 300, and sometimes 1,000, and sometimes 2,000 people, that these people from here go to work every morning, get paid here, pay taxes, contribute, then produce, then go like our exports, and count on our GDP. That it has to be explained, it seems amazing. If we look at what I just heard as an explanation, I've heard that 11 is larger than 13. When you say what I said two minutes ago, you just say that a foreign businessman is privileged, a foreign company is privileged, and I say 13 domestics get subsidies, 11 foreign and someone tells me they're privileged, then you tell me 11 is greater than 13. Somehow I can't agree. I don't know, maybe someone who listens to this will agree, maybe that kind of argument convinces him. I'll somehow still be inclined to make 13 bigger than 11. As for these coalitions, we may not have understood each other, I did not transfer anyone to the former coalition, nor for the co-operation he had with the yellow, tycoon, former regime at the AP Vojvodina level, and we know that it was, nor for the co-operation he had with the same at the level of the city of Belgrade, and we know that it is, nor for the sows of various local communities where they cooperated perfectly. I'm talking about what's happening today. Is the Old Town municipality an actuality? They haven't changed the coalition, as far as I know, in the past few months. On the contrary, I have even seen him boast, from these lines he boasts that this coalition functions immaculately and is told to us – everything you consider to be controversial, prove it through any verdict. He has to decide when to mention any name. Have you decided that from now on you're performing only with the verdict as evidence before you say that someone is guilty, that a thief, a villain, is one or another, or is that only true when that suits you? If only when it suits you that way, you don't have to explain whether Bastache is a crime or not, you absolutely don't have to. Just explain – how good it is for the citizens of Old Town and useful that the sports centre has 100 million dinars in debt, why is it useful for them? Just explain it to us. Why is it useful for them to spend about 50 million dinars instead of 15 million, as planned for various non-formal activities this year? Why is that good for these people? Why don't they need that money for anything else? You explain that for starters and I think it's an example of continuity or discontinuity with thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58661	Thank you. The word has Alexander Seselj, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58662	If reality is contrary to what Mr. Orlic is saying, the team is up by reality. You know, we're in a coalition with Mark Bastic in Old Town and we've never tried to hide it. Marko Bastic never said that Sandzak is a republic, never said that Vojvodina's republic, never said it should be admitted that genocide occurred in Srebrenica, never said Kosovo is independent and will recognise it. All this is regularly said by Nenad Canak and Suleiman Ugljanin, whom you also indirectly support, and even Canak is the only representative outside the ruling majority, i.e. in the Serbian Parliament, who is president of some assembly committee. Let's not talk about any more of that support. "Fiat" factory in Kragujevac. So now "Fiat" from Kragujevac is a Serbian product, is it, in your words, by the logic of what you were saying. Vladimir Putin i.e. The Russian Federation did not allow exports of "Fiyata" produced in Kragujevac to Russia for reasons that it is an Italian product and that the agreement between Russia and Serbia does not apply to non-Serbian products. I didn't know you knew better than Vladimir Putin. I didn't have that information. Anyway, I don't want to criticize anyone for what he's doing just to criticize him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58663	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58664	Five more seconds, Mr. Arsic. I think we should consider what is the best solution for Serbian citizens in each of these spheres of social life, not automatically accepts, and then seek an explanation of why it is good, because it came from the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58665	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58666	Without any ambition for me to make the policy of the Russian Federation and to decide if there's anything useful for Russia and that I know it better than maybe Vladimir Putin. On the contrary, you will never hear such a sentence from us, but it is those who now pronounce such a sentence, as some kind of accusation on our account, that they claim in this room that they know better than Vladimir Putin what relations they have with Serbia, how relations they are with Alexander Vukic and how much respect they have. I've explained it many times here, it's an indication to you, let's say, the fact that Vladimir Putin is a feature, and in return I've only heard, no, that would also be if he were in power and Boris Tadic. But somehow it was never when Boris Tadic was in power or any of those, which, as far as I have to notice, is clearly regretted, which he is working with at the level, among other things, the Old City. All that was said earlier, on the subject of terrible accusations, at the expense of the Serb people, both in Republika Srpska and in the Raška area, and about Vojvodina, but also in connection with Srebrenica, all these are words, but all the words are from the first to the last, these people, with whom I see excellent cooperation in Old Town. Whether there were any representatives, this protest of theirs, Gilas's one of five million, as they call it, whose symbol is that Marko Bastac, but one of the symbols, do not belong to their things that were said just before. Did Suleiman Ugljanin, the protest one out of five million organized in Novi Pazar? Did those who organized it in Novi Sad wear separatist flags? Did they say that Republika Srpska, a genocide and all this about Srebrenica, and what do you disagree with? Well, you're the same people. And then who he's working with in Old Town, but with them. A team of those who say those things. I'm just wondering if someone's gonna pretend that these things bother him, because he has one policy at national level, and they don't bother him because he has another policy, as he said, on a local level, for the sole reason, because he thinks it's useful to him? If he wants to, as far as I'm concerned, there's nothing questionable, everyone answers for himself. But let him answer here, to us, to what we ask here. How is it for the citizens of Old Town, if the only question is local interest? How useful it is for them and what an interest it is to have 100 million dinars broken down at one sports center, to spend 45 on hiring suspects in a non-transparent way, so let's talk about other millions that have obviously disappeared in some dark or buddhak, in this year alone. Where there's good interest, continuity, or discontinuity, with robbers and thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58667	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58668	Well, if I'm not mistaken, the essence of power is in the Republic government and there's real power. Again, I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, especially Mark Bastac, if there's any evidence, if there are any doubts, then go ahead and arrest him and solve these problems more. If he did it all, stole it, purposelessly spent everything he did, about what you're talking about. Twenty days ago, there isn't much time, twenty days ago, coalitions in Meroshina, between the "yellow" companies, called DS and SNS. The same you all, and Gilas and I don't know Tadic, Lutovac, who are already there, Canak, who says he is the Vojvodina Republic, that Kosovo should be recognised, that Srebrenica was genocide, all the worst about Serbia and the Serb people, and he is the SNS coalition partner in Novi Sad. Sulejman Ugljanin, who says Serbs have committed genocide against Bosniaks and in Sandzak that Stefan Nemanja is a war criminal, that Serbia is a fascist state, the worst possible for Serbs and Serbia, has SNS support, through Rasim Ljajic's party in the Bosniak National Council. Is it worse that Marko Bastic, in one of the municipalities of Stari Grad, is it true, and there is no process, but I see that it is known by members of the ruling majority either Canak and Ugljanin, who are open against Serbia and the Serb people, and for that they have the support of the SNS? Not to us, you're transferring us to a tree, and you don't see the woods. You need first from the position of the republican government, to be determined to deal with such elements in Serbia, not that they have SNS support and it cannot be the same, that we are in the Old Town coalition with Marko Bastic and that Canak is on all sides supported by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58669	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58670	I'm gonna learn a lot today. Among other things, it looks like the SNS is in the Bosniak National Council, right? That's how it turns out now. It's hardly gonna turn out like that, and it's probably gonna make someone believe, when they believe what's just been said, that 11 is larger than 13. So we're not in any of the Bosniak national councils or anything like that. We're not talking about any interesting exhibitions or gymnastics of a guy, this one over that one, and that one for that one. We're talking direct connections, direct connections. Is he involved in the government that maintains Marko Bastice, by name and last name, personally in the face of the head, in the position of the president of the township of Stari Grad? He's in. Is this Marko Bastac, not over some connected, left-right, one of the symbols of this Gilas protest five million? Yes, it is. Are the people who are the media promoters of this and such protest the bearers of all these statements that are said to bother you? They did. No one from around here, through the middleman, I don't know how, directly, the most direct possible. Is this Marko Bastac intending to break up and tear down the Sava Square where we want to build a monument to Stefan Nemanja? Not through the middleman or I don't know who, by letter or postcard, but he with his team, which we say is being paid from the budget of the Old Town municipality. We ask where is the interest of citizens, not Bastac and those people who receive money, but citizens, but he wants to tear up that square, and on Stefan Nemanja's monument. He himself. The simple question is, are these things supported or not supported? It's pointless to try to sell us or the people who watch this transmission, the story that you don't agree with, and you actually let something like that survive? Do you mind? Don't back him up anymore, don't hold his back or stick to what the kids say, those thief ladders. Why did I think of the thief ladders when we were talking about Bastac, Gilas and that team in Old Town, I don't know, but somehow it seemed like it was a very appropriate term. What's continuity, what's discontinuity? Is it when you help them and keep them in power? That's a question for those who, I'd say, just pretend that something's bothering them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58671	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58672	So again, whoever breaks the law in Serbia should be arrested and answered. It's a consensus, and I guess we'll agree on that. If there is any violation, i.e. A crime in the work of Mark Bastac, I ask that it be handled nicely. We're in power in Old Town, the last time I checked, the old train station isn't in Old Town. What we have to do with someone going and making political performances around Belgrade, is we go with him together, we're not going. We can talk about the functioning of local self-government, and the fact that someone has political performance in Belgrade, which moves these signs, what it does, goes and says I don't know what about these projects of new construction, can't be compared to someone who says Serbia is fascist, that Serbs have committed genocide, that Kosovo is independent and that Vojvodina is a republic. They can't be comparable things and can't be used in argument at all. If there is a crime or a crime against property here, please arrest him nicely, and what the coalition partner of the New Sad SNS is doing, Nenad Canak is attacking the constitutional order and it's not since yesterday. That's what a man's been doing since he showed up on the political scene. It is not the same to draw signs and recognise Kosovo. Let's talk about it then, without compromise, fighting with the fifth October, yellow company, DS, and then Canak in Novi Sad, Ranj Ljajic in the government, DS with advances in Merošima. Where's that uncompromising fight? We have no luck, and we will have it, to exercise power in Serbia. We would never support Nenad Canka in Novi Sad and he would never be our coalition partner, and I am very sorry that Mr. Atlagic is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58673	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58674	I'm sure Mark Atlagic is also sorry he's not here right now. It is not the same as doing what Bastic is doing in construction sites in the centre, which is what we agree on, and saying the most terrible and disgusting things at the expense of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, it is clear. But these things that are not the same, both of them, are supported by the one who is the political associate of Mark Bastac in the Old Town, both of them, and the most terrible, the most disgusting. So they come directly from that kitchen, by Bastac, his new parties, as they are already called, I can't remember, as if every day they change the name of his surroundings, his and Gilas protests "Five million". Directly from there, it is said – performances in the city centre. We disagree deeply about that. We always say - it's not a performance. That Bastac says it's a performance, that Bastac says it's some kind of promo action that's, like, cute. It's violence. It's hooligan behavior, it's absolutely unacceptable anywhere in the world. It doesn't matter now who you love, who you don't love, what you politically advocate. To break fences across construction sites, to stop works, to harass people who do their job fairly, that's violence, that's hooligan behavior. So it is a small matter for you, but you take it to harass the passers-by, the people who stand and ask, what is the matter with you, what are you doing? To curse them, spit them, physically turn on them. Didn't you watch those videos when they run into an old man, and then that bully ends up in a nocdawn, because he's so strong and so brave, so masculine, he's very capable? But it doesn't matter, none of it would be, none of those images would be on the streets of Belgrade if they weren't generated by both Bastic and such a team. And when someone says, I'm just curious whether something happened on the territory of the Old Town municipality or not. If he's out of town, I've got nothing to do with it. Well, it won't be. You wouldn't even be able to do all this, you wouldn't have this team of thugs and hooligans following him, you wouldn't have the money to pay them and so on, and that's how the team deals with the lack of power in the Old Town. Whoever gives him power in the Old Town gives him everything else. (President: Bring the end. ) These things should be considered by anyone who will say that they do not agree with the abuse of power, with the abuse of money, with the exploitation of dishonest intentions and needs, which are absolutely the destruction of a construction site in Belgrade or anywhere in Serbia, the destruction of monuments, for example. Stefan Nemanja, who is also threatened, or insulting Serbia in any way. Whoever supports these things, by allowing them to be funded, by being able to support themselves, he, therefore, is either not honest when he says that these things do not support or absolutely cannot find a way to make his decision to participate in them he knows for whatever reason he justifies in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58675	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58676	It seems to me that you, Mr. Orlic, are ashamed to be in power with Chanka in Novi Sad. We haven't heard anything from you yet. Why is the SNS in power with Nenad Canka in Novi Sad? Did I then say that you agree with Cank's views, which, therefore, have recognised Kosovo's independence, Serbs have committed genocide, the Republic of Serbia should also be abolished by the Vojvodina Republic? I didn't say it was your attitude. I'm just saying that you support him, in that he's your coalition partner in Novi Sad. Serbian radicals have nothing to be ashamed of and you will not catch us anywhere in crime in Serbia. And the example is the most recent, coalition government in the municipality of Požega was formed by SNS and SRS. When crime was discovered and certain people were arrested, they were all members of the SNS. How come no radicals were arrested? The government in the municipality chooses the people in the elections, I guess that's where we'll agree, and after those who are in power should again respond over a period of four years to those same citizens who chose them. We never said we were against construction or projects or anything else. We were just always against the intransparency of procedure and crime, against it. But here's the reason we haven't heard from you yet is for a coalition with Nenado Canka in Novi Sad. I'm really interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58677	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58678	I wouldn't say anything if there was any coalition for which I should give an explanation here, but your words are, directly your words – by working with someone, in any way, you support his ideas and attitudes. They're not mine. That's what we started with. Right? Then when it's said that the SNS is in the Bosniak National Council, which as much as it has to do with anything I don't have to explain to you, it's approximately what on level 11 is greater than 13. So that's not my word. Those are the words that I leaned upon and said, well, then that means it. Are you with Bastache? You did. So, then, you agree with him and his surroundings, his Gilas, are in the same party, Bastac is the head of the Belgrade city, the head of his party, which he has marketed, but you also agree with this Todorovic who said he was a genocide in Srebrenica and with Marinik Tepic, who, by the way, is also the signator of a proposal to bring some parliamentary resolution on the subject, that we condemn ourselves. Well, with those, if you're sharing power, then you're sharing attitudes. For the record, that means it. These and those attitudes were made by someone who said it shares with Marinika Tepic. I point to other things here. It can't be said -- we're for the development of Belgrade and we've never been against "Beeding on water" and the regulation of the squares, and then it allows one who directly works against the development of Belgrade and "Beeding on water" and threatens to tear down these markets, directly helps him finance himself, so that he can deal with the destruction of the square. What difference does it make? Does that sound like a nonsensical to anyone else here? Sounds like a tough nonsens. No one can say – we are not about harassing workers in the centre of Belgrade in the Republic Square, and then allowing those who personally break up those fences, who threaten workers, are brought into their faces, and the citizens who pass by there are scrambling and beating that they have money to do so, that security is hired to do so. Sounds like a tough notsens to me. So if you need to talk about whether you represent certain values, certain attitudes, there's no problem, we can talk about it as long as it takes today. And it's all by law, and I'm not sure that it really is, but it's all by law, let's just explain what's the interest of anyone in the Old Town or elsewhere in Serbia to do this, to allow Bastac to tear down any square, to allow Bastac to tear down any construction site, to sabotage both the subway and "Belgrade on water" and the gondola and whatever you want. Just explain now why it is useful for anyone without it being about Bastac, Gilas, Marinika Tepic or those people who have been paid from the budget of the Municipality of Stari Grad. I don't think those are difficult questions, and it's going to be the answer to the first question of continuity with who and with what.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58679	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58680	Looks like we're having another conflict between reality and Mr. Orlic's words, and that reality will suffer again. I've said exactly the opposite of everything. I said I didn't transfer you because you're in power with the sudden Chanka in New Sad, that you're sharing his views. I just asked the reason for it, the reason for the coalition in Novi Sad. It seems to me like you're ashamed of it and that you're trying to hide it. I don't know the math, I don't know if 11 is greater than 13, 11 plus 13 etc., I don't really know that, but I do know that Nenad Canak is a traitor, and I guess everyone in Serbia does. If we put on the scales the detachment of the signs, the movement of fences and various nonsense and the burden of genocide due to the alleged genocide in Srebrenica to be attributed to the Serb people, which remains for centuries, is that the same? I don't think so. The authorities in the elections form citizens. The government again corresponds for four years to those same citizens. Indeed, to speak, if we were to compare the violations with the attack on the constitutional order, because whoever says, I would recognise Kosovo's independence, who says in Serbia is, Serbia has committed genocide, who says Vojvodina's Republic, the attack on the constitutional order. It's not a crime anymore. It's not a fine. It's the worst crime, the act against the state order, and everything seems to me like you're trying to escape.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58681	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58682	What, then, are you cooperating with the fact that they're breaking constitutional order? I ask that all the time with what things they say. What do you do with them in Old Town? They're doing all that and what you called crimes, and there's actually a lot of crimes. One thing we can agree on right now is everything we already are. So that there is no SNS or any national council of any minority and that someone obviously does not know whether 11 is greater than 13. We agree. I see who doesn't know, I'm glad you admit it. Can he tell me if 50 is greater than 15? Fifteen million were planned to be spent on these suspicious jobs in the Old Town, so maybe less than a month has changed to 50 million. Now let's see, is 15 bigger than or less than 50. If it turns out that 15 is less, that now plans more, just to add to the whole explanation why it's good and useful for the citizens of the city because they've solved everything else in life, so now you can spend a little bit more, is there any of those things that require continuity or discontinuity. It's easy to talk, it's very easy to talk about, and we'll probably agree on that, but the question is, can it stand with something concrete, some part, some personal credibility, and also the willingness to expose yourself to various inconveniences and dangers, to support those words. As many as we repeat here that what Bastic and his Marinika Tepic and others are saying about the Old Town is unacceptable, and as far as Srebrenica is concerned, only Aleksandar Vukic, as far as I know, was willing to represent himself in the worst and most difficult places. This attitude that we say is correct, to expose itself in the middle of the United States and the situation to be there with those diverse Clintons, the chiefs, those who answer over the phone and from where, from that and such Srebrenica, to go personally to Srebrenica and there, as far as I know, is the only thing that Alexander Vukic risked his head for that kind of attitude and are kind of a principle. And those who like to talk a lot, but don't like to deprive themselves of any single place in any major or local enterprise, some million in Old Town. I'm afraid they won't be able to compete with that kind of persuasion and willingness to stand by their beliefs, they can just keep talking, but it's no problem, we'll be here and we'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58683	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58684	Of course what happened to Wolfie in Srebrenica seems scandalous to me in 2015, but what could he have expected? What was he doing in Srebrenica? What was he doing at this political gathering, the political performance of those necrophiles in Srebrenica? Why didn't he go to Bratunac to bow to Serbian victims as well? We agree that we should fight to be accused of being genocide and independence of Kosovo and new separatism in Serbia, etc. And I didn't mention it and said it in such a way that now someone is targeting it from the top of the republican government, nor did I say who you're with. I'm just saying that there's some thing that's a fact. The fact is the power of LSV Nenada Chanka and SRS Alexander Vukic in Novi Sad. So, this yellow company, on October 5th, and the monster that robbed and destroyed Serbia, one of its leaders, Nenada Canka, a convicted traitor who would recognise Kosovo's independence, separate Sandzak and Vojvodina, and says all the time that Serbia has committed genocide. It's also a fact. Don't let us fight, besides fighting parts of the international community that try to attribute to us that we're genocide. On the other hand, they support themselves domestically, that is, our people whom we are not ashamed of, who can only happen to be called Serbs, who are traitors and all of us are just as badly wanted by our enemies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58685	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58686	Well, questions again, same from a little while ago, and what is he doing dealing with such a co-operation? A team that, as they say, violates the Constitution. Is there a coalition in the Old Town that makes whoever was in the DS, plus in the SRS coalition DSS, Dveri, SDS, LDP and so on. Something seems to me that's the composition. What was Alexander Wolfie doing? Is it possible I heard that question, too? Well, he fought, stood up where no one else should have. Where no one else was allowed, and there he did not go to apologize unlike Boris Tadic and this team that used to play around Tadic, now around Gilas is playing around, so they keep the Old Town together with those whose names I read. So he went there to work, to fight for the interest of this people, to make us able to have a much better and smarter future than we've had in the past the one and the like, with those who seem to be in the Old Town now gathered together and teamed up with those who are willing to participate in that continuity, it seems they're the only ones who are willing to participate in it and no one else in this world exists anymore. It's not 11 bigger than 13, there will never be, that we understand each other right now. Like it's not 15 over 50. Those 15 million who jumped with Bastac's decision and this team that holds him in power in the Old Town, at 50 million, are higher costs for citizens of that part of Belgrade. Here, two more simple questions, and I think we'll get the answers right away. Is 20 bigger than 100, since 20 million seems to me to have been minus that sports center that has now jumped to 100 million and is zero larger than four million. Zero is justified by four million how much was spent on one service only in one month, only in that municipality. Is it the continuity of honesty and in the end whether it is the continuity of courage when I say, the last sentence, Mr. Chairman, that we, unlike others, do not hesitate to go to difficult places, and that is best shown by Alexander Vukic going to Srebrenica. What is offered as a counter argument on the other side? He's going to say someone who's obviously the hardest place this congregation has ever been to answer what's bigger than two numbers. I'd say it can't be compared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58687	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since we have already had a circle of replicas for an hour, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58689	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we felt that this point that we are proposing should certainly have a significant place in this Article 41 where unfair competition is spoken of, and it concerns the attack on another trader and the destruction of his reputation, which will later have inconspicuous consequences for his business. We recently had a report from the Competition Protection Commission, and it was possible for MPs to see that certain high-value disputes between the companies that sought to protect the competition were launched. However, what preceded that? Previous attacks, ordered media attacks, newspaper articles, and other forms of action to bring one company into a difficult position and to be taken over by someone who thinks it is stronger on the market. Very often, marketing and strategic trade experts use the term hostile takeover. What does that really mean? You are in a situation where some of the leading tycoon in Serbia, such as all those who have not been processed, who have had a privileged position on the market under dosovna, and they are now taking these small ones over, not in a way to announce the possibility of someone selling their actions, but by direct calls and offering these shareholders to give below the price, or to in some way condition them that they become the owners of the company. We have a situation that government minister Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic directly muds companies in Serbia. Since individual toll companies are incompetent, such as this, which means reducing their ability to be competitors on the market tomorrow, as well as owners of Kargo, which carries passengers in Serbia through the application they have and how they already have about 400,000 people have taken over the application. So how will you protect anyone else from unfair competition when it's done by a minister in the government? Now the question is, what is her interest in attacking Kargo? Which is her interest in attacking domestic road companies, certain construction firms. Known people have spoken to the public many times from these professional associations but here's a way, you might try to protect traders too, because traders who need to operate in a very harsh market, where there is a severe market competition, must also have legal protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58690	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 42nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member is talking about banned actions, speculations, important changes in offers, etc. Speculation. Namely, I claim that the attack on RTS by the group led by Bosko Ljotic yellowic called the Yankee, who was now a happily seen guest at the US Embassy, was neither spontaneous nor disorganised, and it seems to me that he was also agreed with the people within RTS. The goal was not to change the relationship of forces in REM or if it changes, so it is the opposition's second request, or if it changes not to harm Gilas, Solak, and the rich and yellow Buket who is seriously working with them. Under its jurisdiction, REM should allow the most significant sporting events to necessarily be transferred on channels covering the whole market. Apparently, the yellow Buicke doesn't object at all because that rule is not respected, even on the contrary. If this happens to be broadcast at a state public service then it is a sporting event that is not purchased by the organisers, but bought by RTS from United Media, the Darak Media and the firm connected with Gilas and Šolak. Also, the yellow Buket doesn't mind that contrary to the Media Act, the 100th channel is not lined up so that the National Service is on the first channel, but is only on the third. A man doesn't complain at all. Apparently, it suits him to have Gilas and Solakov's businesses go, and he doesn't mind that fake cross-border channels illegally broadcast commercials and thus reduce RTS revenues. Gilasov, Šolakov, and Buket's wallet is probably getting fatter, and RTS employees have poor and miserable salaries, just because RTS via REM, false cross-border channels exploiting Gilas, Šolak, and my god and the yellow Bukke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58692	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58693	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to go up, and Article 42, and the amendment starts with a sentence -- there's no action, that is, due to a significant market disturbance. Speaking of disorders and consequences, when we're talking about RTS, we've had opportunities to see in the media the last few days the headlines "RTS arrest for Gilas". So, former public service leaders allowed Gilas to trade for seconds in RTS, and it still says that RTS was damaged by more than 650 million dinars, that Gilas was buying seconds, and then reselling them, causing damage. Dragan Gilas said this - I have no comment. So, for the amount of 650 million dinars, for which RTS was damaged, the Darekt Media has won against the legal property benefit in the period 2009 to 2018. The company, led by Dragan Gilas, who is now at the head of the Freedom and Justice Party, see what his freedom consisted of, looks at robbery, and justice will probably be satisfied after the investigation is over. This particular example of illegal trade covers trade in influence, advertising space, abuse of position, crime, corruption and all that our system does not need. Gilas, shut up about this. On the other hand, Gilas is also silent about the calls coming from Jova Bakic, who says: “Good job, Master! You'll be great when you come to power, since you've already shown how much you care about media freedoms by reselling minutes on RTS." I was quoting this. I suggest, therefore, that N1 journalists invite him on a show, let's see, maybe Gilas will extend his appeal request to Bakic, to set a temporary measure for him to stop talking about him. After pressing charges against Alexander Vukic and Ana Brnabić and many others who spoke about him and his affairs. I guess the next thing I know, we're banned from thinking, turning into some zombies who are probably going to follow Dragan Gilas as some kind of leader. However, he must be aware that it will not happen in the film either. But what is still happening in Serbia today, the same Jovo Bakic said that the armed force is the only way to change power, that it is important to have as little blood as possible and that the way it will be done should be considered. So what are we supposed to do now that we're in the Serbian Progressive Party? Let's forget about the insults that are constantly being placed on these TVs that are being distributed through the N1, through various shows, through the Imprint of the Week? So we don't respond to this kind of call to the lynch on the list of "Today"? What do we need to do now that we're members of the SNS? Look around when we're walking down the street? I'm just going to end this exposure by saying that I expect the state authorities to react to something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58694	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 44th amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58695	Article 44 The law on market surveillance and trade. The position of the 1st member says: "The ministry is obtaining data from traders and state authorities on trade and trade networks, in order to initiate monitoring the effects of economic policy measures in the area of market and trade. "And that would be fine. This attitude is not at all precise, it is not defined. Later, this member is being elaborated, so it is said when commitments are due until March 31st for the previous year, to deliver it. We think it's too high and it shouldn't have gone with this member at all, which is why we suggested that it be deleted. Because the Law on State Administration, Article 13, says what the state authorities of the administration should do -- they monitor the situation in the area for which they are in charge, they initiate through the Government to solve these problems, or they do so on their own, depending on their capabilities, or powers under certain laws, in this case, the ministry law. The ministry responsible for trade, tourism and telecommunications should monitor the situation in this area. But put in charge of traders that they provide this, plus predicting criminal measures in case they don't, so they're not only in Serbia "Metro", "Idea", "Ikea" and not counting further, trade chains. There are also a lot of small shops that certainly can't do this on time or quality. And then they'll come under the influence of the law, because the 67th member has provided for criminal measures by punishing a legal person from 50 to 200 grand unless he does this, or does it in good time, and no one at this time, the minister is there, I assume that you've been following this problem, that you don't know at this point what the data will be. Analysis in a particular area to be made, that makes sense. When it's said that there are now some 60s and a few thousand open shops, and in 2005, there was some historical maximum, let's say, in recent history, which the president would say, there were close to 200 thousand. Then do you know why there were 200 grand? It was right after those robbery privatisations, once again to remind ourselves, and many have tried their existential question to solve through the opening of trade shops or trade entities in general. But trade is a very serious discipline, where there is a lot of knowledge and skills. We're still not that trained, or people who deal with this activity aren't that trained, and you're putting them in some kind of trouble, and you're not sure what it's going to be, or what it's going to be, within any time, and you've provided for a criminal policy that will sanction these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58696	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58697	Thank you, Chairman. Article 44 points out that the Ministry provides data on trade from traders and state authorities to initiate and monitor the effects of economic policy measures in the area of market and trade. In Article 44, it is emphasized - The government is closer to prescribing the form and content of the form, the way in which the data are delivered and stored in Article 1 of this Article, means, which will be filled in by traders. It is therefore necessary to obtain data relating to the functioning of the market, the development of trade and the monitoring of trade flows. The legal basis for setting up mechanisms to enable the collection of these data is one of the objectives foreseen by the Strategy for the Development of Trade of the Republic of Serbia by 2020. This strategy also provides for a range of solutions leading to the establishment of a harmonised retail and wholesale network across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as you yourself said. Article 8. The ministry law determines the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58698	Thank you. Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58699	I've already said that Article 13. The State Administration Act confers certain powers on the authorities of the State Administration. The ministries are also the authorities of the state administration, but each ministry has special powers defined in the Ministry Act. We also have the Republic Bureau of Statistics, as a special authority, where it can provide quite enough information to the ministry, in this case the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, so there is no need to further oblige traders, as it is said in this Article 44, to supply any additional information. I don't know if the colleague knows what all the records of merchants lead as mandatory under this law and some other laws, and I'm absolutely certain that from these records which are, therefore, mandatory, not alternative, there will be quite enough data and indicators to solve the problem that will eventually arise after some negative influences or occurrences in the area of trade itself. And in some of the later members of this bill, it's said exactly what analysis needs to be done. If we know what analysis needs to be done, we have in mind which records traders lead as mandatory, the possibility of obtaining records from the Republic Bureau of Statistics is quite enough that the Ministry of Trade can analyze everything successfully and take certain measures to prevent unwanted consequences, whether from market disturbances or any other reason. That's quite enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58700	Right on line, colleague Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58701	It is pointed out here that some very important data are not collected, and they are significant from the aspect of trade policymaking. A sublegal act will bring together the content and way of data collection, making sure it is not data collected by other institutions, and yet, on the other hand, it is also about preventing corruption and the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58702	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58703	Article 44's position states that the Government is closer to prescribing the form and content of the forms and methods for the delivery and storage of the data referred to in Article 1(1). The colleague just recently called on the Trade Development Strategy, which is due by 2020 to provide some answers to questions. By the time the government passes a sublegal act on this, we're already 20. What did we get? We're nothing. This is a mere copying and just another intention to make it difficult and not an easy situation for traders in Serbia. Not easy, not small, not even medium. Do you know they're joining together, and it's a good thing they're joining together, a little more serious domestic trade chains to fight more successfully on the Serbian market against large foreign companies, which only come because of their own interest? We have repeatedly repeated, out of, I don't know, tens of thousands of items that they have in their range, a small part is sometimes participation, or goods produced in Serbia. Although we already have such a difficult situation for slightly larger and more serious chains, then you can imagine the situation with the smaller ones, I'd say to the middle even merchants, if we weren't talking about the smaller ones. They're having a hard time with what you're trying to impose extra on them, and it won't be much use.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58704	Right on line, MP Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58705	By the time new regulations are passed, the old rules will be applied, and the time limit for the adoption of the rules is one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58706	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58707	Yeah, that. It's just, I just didn't mean to say that the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts was a year, but I said that the strategy is valid until 2020, and now it's half 2019. What are we gonna get a team? We're not getting anything. So far, have there been opportunities or ways for the Ministry of Trade, or the Government to bring some measures, and even when it maximumly said how much trade margins could be? You know when he does that? When there's a disturbance on the market. Without this article, 44 could've done it. It's just that here our desire, in the SRS, is that something that doesn't have to be traded, and we think of other economic operators as economic operators, and we also think of Serbian citizens, what they don't have to do, not put it as a burden. We're talking about e-commerce and a lot of stuff. No one is against promotions and we should work on it all the time, but we should keep in mind that many traders do not even have the opportunity to be associated with the Tax Administration to send data that is mandatory under other laws. Do you know we have a situation like this? We do, I'm sure. This member of the 44th is unnecessary, will present major problems for traders in Serbia, and the criminal policy envisaged is not naive at all. You keep saying that you want to help the citizens of Serbia and economic operators and to create a positive climate in both employment and creation of new values, try to show this and practically show that by accepting certain amendments that we are sure would be a better solution than the legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58708	Right on line, MP Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58709	Article 44(2) has made it very clear, says – The trader is obliged to provide data to the ministry under Article 1 on which no official record is kept, in accordance with the second regulation, once a year, no later than 31 March with the condition on 31 December of the previous year. So once a year. It's not too much of a burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58710	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58711	You've done them a great favor not to say 12 times a year. We understood, once a year, and I said that by March 31st of the year, with a condition on December 31st of the previous year. You don't think we should do this more times, do you? He predicted this proposal, it is clear to us, and we have proposed that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58712	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jojić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58713	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, there are some provisions that should be regulated differently. We have proposed that this amendment be adopted on Article 45, because we believe that it is within the jurisdiction of the ministry, the competent, the resolute, to supervise and control the implementation and application of this law. However, I must point out that the members of 48 and 50 are contrary to the provisions of Articles 153, 154 and 155. The Code of Criminal Procedure. What's this about? It's about giving jurisdiction, therefore, to market inspectors and communal police that they can search apartments and search rooms and search faces. This exclusively falls under jurisdiction, so the police, the prosecution and the court. The question is asked -- formally legally, how will the market inspector be able to pass, therefore, the court's decision, so that he can search either the apartment or the person or the room? That's absolutely inadmissible. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government had taken care of the state and its territory and its property since 2000, it wouldn't have happened, if you didn't know, I would have informed you that it was sold "PIK Zlatibor", a total of 2,500 hectares, for 550,000 euros, and that the value of these 2,500 hectares is now a billion and 300 thousand euros. The question is asked – how is it possible? So, one hectare was sold for 220 euros and one ar for two euros, and today one ar in Zlatibor reaches up to 20, even up to 30, 40,000 euros in the centre of Zlatibor. So, gentlemen, we have more confidence to do so by the state and to do so by the ministry, because everything that you put down at the place is getting out of control, and that's where corruption and crime is happening right now. Therefore, supervision of the implementation of this law, in our opinion, should only be a ministry resolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you how they traded the yellow, yellow orgel as it traded for you. In 2006, the "yellow ergel" sold the Panczek "Azotar" for 13m and 100,000 euros. But in the wheat trade, 15m euros were damaged by the state, and on the subsidies differences in prices that they sold artificial fertilizer, 30m euros. That's how the Pancian "Azotara" went into bankruptcy. So, ladies and gentlemen, the state takes control and thus introduces order, and I propose, and even demand from the coalition government -- please bring a law on the revision of private enterprises that robbed the state of the Republic of Serbia when privatisation was carried out in the worst way and robbed the entire country and impoverished this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58714	I thank my colleague Jojic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic to Article 48. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mircic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58715	What every authority seeks when it comes to law-making is that, if possible, as many provisions as possible concerning a particular topic need to be defined and that the law is simplified in such a way that man will see in that document that he has a clear situation when it comes to trade here in particular. We have two laws here. We have this law, the proposal in fact of this law on trade, and we have a proposal for a law on foreign trade. Why am I stressing this? Because by the logic of things, everything that's important, crucially, should contain this one law, and that's exactly what's called the Trade Act, whether it's internal, external or any other kind of trade, if it already exists. Here we have in this article an item that is obviously eternal or most dilemma. We have whether a market inspector can stop a vehicle that he has information about transporting goods that are the subject of trade and conducting a search, that is, to take certain measures. That's what we had when it came to the municipal militia. We also had a debate about whether a municipal militiaman could stop the vehicle, search that vehicle, etc. And now that you see, let's say when it comes to markets and wholesalers, that's where the competences and the competences and the inspectors of market and municipal militias are intertwined. Now, who's actually the one who owns to stop the vehicle, search that vehicle? Both, and basically, we have a third law that gives authority to the departments of the MUP so that they can stop the vehicle and on the basis of suspicion or information to search that vehicle. It's completely incomprehensible. What's even more a crucial problem, a bigger problem, that's d, and let's say you don't have a trade law here, and according to us, Serbian radicals, that's where we should see the role of the Chamber of Commerce, what is the role of customs, what is the role of so-called. anti-dumping commissions. It's part of the Foreign Trade Act. Aniti dumping, it is to prevent the sale at dumping prices, include the price plus VAT. I saw it with a respected colleague, it's in the Foreign Trade Act. But I guess this is where it should be. You have the necessary co-operation between customs, the Chamber of Commerce and the Serbian Government. In the event of a disturbance in the balance sheet of goods, domestic and imported goods, the Government must react on the basis of information it will receive from the Chamber of Commerce and on the basis of customs records of imported goods. It should, according to us Serbian radicals, contain this law. What's our crucial remark, it really doesn't make sense that we're talking here, but as Mr. Seselj said, we're talking on the third day, and there's no real minister here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58716	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58717	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Mircic is wrong, we are discussing not the Law on Foreign Trade, but the Law on Trade and we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Trade. So there's no outside shop at this session. As for the questions Mr. Mircic has raised here as problematic, who has the right to stop the vehicles, it's regulated by the Law on the Communist Militia, which we recently adopted. So, this right has a municipal militia, it doesn't have the right market inspection. What market inspection does is regulated by special laws. So, the attempt to create the impression that there is a disharmonicity between the legal rules in the Republic of Serbia is simply not true. What I also wanted to say concerns what the esteemed colleague Seselj said some time ago, and it concerns that foreign investors are ahead of domestics. The topic is closely linked to the issue of trade, because the Republic of Serbia has increasingly better balances when it comes to imports and exports and our exports are growing. What is important to say, thanks to the policy being conducted since 2014, thanks to the policy founded by Aleksandar Vukic, which is the attraction of both domestic and foreign investments, we have one accelerated re-industry of Serbia and all that is produced in Serbia is exported, largely exported abroad. Statistics show that we export the largest part of our production in the area of industry to the EU countries' market, close to 70%, about 27% of the waste to countries that are signatories to the CEFTA agreement. What I also want to say, and I am going to end this exposure, the State Aid Act makes no difference and makes no discrimination between what is usually called a domestic investor and what is called a foreign investor. So the State Aid Act recognizes the investor. Col. Orlic correctly noted a few minutes ago that in 2018 more state aid was granted to natural and legal persons who were investors, and otherwise were citizens of the Republic of Serbia, compared to those investments coming from abroad, where and when the investment came from abroad, i.e. When capital comes from abroad, it is required here to form a business that operates under Serbian regulations and falls completely under the Serbian legal regime and when it comes to working relations and when it comes to paying taxes, contributions, etc. In this sense, our legislation does not make any discrimination between domestic and foreign investors. So, the investor is an investor and the goods produced here, exported to the EU market or to another market as Serbian goods, or as a Serbian product.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58718	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58719	Here, I'll be very precise. Here, in this draft law, in Chapter – The authority of the market inspector, paragraph 6) says: “He shall examine the vehicle in the event of knowledge that it is a vehicle in the function of carrying out the trade.” Look, if he's going to do a checkup, he's not exactly here saying that he can't stop the vehicle if he suspects that there's something in that vehicle that's the subject of the store. But it's about the next one. It has to be precise every law, every one. This is not about that, Mr. Martinovic, that we don't know what the Foreign Trade Act is, and what the Trade Act is, but trade is unique and external and internal it should be defined. So when it's hard for us to manage this, you might think it's for those who are not citizens of Serbia who come to the side. It must be united in one law as much as possible regarding trade. And the fact that it's in two laws, which is separate in the foreign trade compared to this other trade, that no one understands, no one, believe that no one understands. All who give suggestions and want to operate and operate under the law of Serbia, one of the major remarks is why it is not united in one law all the provisions relating to trade, all the provisions relating to investment, all the provisions relating to inspection jobs. We can pollute here, but when a man comes on the side and wants to work in this Serbia, to deal with trade, believe that he can't handle it very, very hard. We are not here against the adoption of amendments and additions to the Trade Act. As we object to you that there is no longer any point in discussing it without a resolution minister present, so we also introduce this as an objection and we do well to say that it is an objection that should relate to the unification of all that is related to trade and operation, as well as to defining the role not only of the Serbian Government, when it comes to trade, and imports and exports, but also of the Chamber of Commerce and Customs. It is in different laws, or contained in laws that do not apply to the Law on Trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58720	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58721	First of all, Mr. Mircic, I want to tell you that the Republic of Serbia has already had a law on inspection supervision since 2015. So the whole inspection control issue is already regulated by the inspection control Act. What you're proposing is theoretically possible, but in practice it would only cause problems. Imagine that you have one big law, a code, one code that will house regulations, or contained regulations relating to inspection supervision of trade, foreign trade, the role of the Chamber of Commerce, customs, etc. It's just enough to take, for example, customs law, so you'll see how large the law is. Now, imagine if you could tie customs to both trade and foreign trade and inspection, it would be very difficult for anyone to manage it, whether it's a citizen of the Republic of Serbia or someone who wants to invest in the Republic of Serbia. As for what you said at the beginning of your presentation, this second one, I think that thing is very clear. The vehicle inspection does not mean stopping the vehicle. Therefore, the vehicle inspection implies that the vehicle has already been stopped. You can't examine the vehicle that's on the move. Someone else stopped that vehicle. That vehicle either stopped the municipal militia or was stopped by regular traffic police. In any case, it was not stopped by market inspection, because market inspection does not have the right to do so. It has the right to review, as has the right to review facilities, relevant premises, business books, etc. Definitely, the market inspection in Serbia does not have the right to stop vehicles, some other authorities do, and this is very precisely defined by our regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58722	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58723	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I never said there have been any changes since 2014. I only pointed to one trend that has existed since 2000 in economic policy, which is growing and greater Serbia's dependence on foreign investment, by foreign investors because of all that the state allows them. Don't accuse me of being against employment, against people working and earning their jobs, but on a long period of time, we may find that the lobby of foreign investors in Serbia has great blackmail potential and thus influences politics in Serbia. On the other hand, we have just heard from Mr. Orlic that the level of co-operation with the Russian Federation is historic, that he has the highest respect for the Serbian president, who is also the bearer of the Alexander Nevski Order. I am glad, I support it, that the president of Serbia has a medal that he received from Vladimir Putin, but from the pompous announcements of the exports of "Fiita" from Kragujevac to Russia there is nothing. So we saw it as our big development opportunity, and it turns out that the state with which we have great cooperation, brotherly ties, and which is our greatest protector on the international scale, is considered an Italian product. I think it can only be devastating for our economy in the future. It is also an alarming attitude of the executive authority towards the National Assembly and this concrete law, as Minister Djordjevic, who can speak competently on this subject and explain, will not later be responsible for any possible shortcomings in the application of such a law. It is therefore important that he be a resolute minister always in the Assembly, that he respects the institution of the National Assembly and, as everyone else, bear responsibility for his proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58724	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58725	Col. Seselj, by 2012, Serbia had a problem not with foreign investments, in the sense that there were, but in the fact that they were almost gone at all. By 2012, Serbia had a problem with a poorly implemented privatisation model, which proved to be devastating by the Serbian economy and, above all, by our domestic economic operators. What the former regime portrayed as a foreign investment, an eclectic example is the sale of "Maxia" "Delezu" from 2011. In their balance sheets, it is shown as a foreign investment, with one private company sold to another private company, one Serbian private company sold to a Belgian company. That didn't fix our GDP in any way. This was in 2011 at a time when Serbia recorded a negative GDP growth rate of minus 3.1%. So by 2012, we had almost no foreign investment, not only foreign investments, but also domestic investments. The increase in investment has been recorded since 2014, then here. First, we had to implement fiscal consolidation measures, go into the business, while doing it at the same time with a job called Serbia's re-industrialisation, by creating conditions for people to invest in Serbia, and domestic producers, and domestic businessmen, and foreign businesses. What I am trying to explain to you from the SNS is that you insist on the tendency that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has favoured investors coming from abroad since 2014. We don't do that. Please, so take it, look at the State Aid Act and look at all the government regulations that have been passed to enforce that law. There is no discrimination between domestic and foreign capital. There is no discrimination between companies whose founders of companies abroad and companies whose founders are domestic, therefore, Serbian natural or legal persons. Everyone can get state aid under the same conditions. (President: Bring the end, colleague Martinovic. I'm done. So state aid under the same conditions. What I'm also saying is, it's not true that every investor gets those famous 10,000 euros per job. That's the maximum amount you can get. Otherwise, you have investors who got two, three, four thousand euros each, etc. Depending on the size of investments, depending on the number of workers they will employ, etc. There is no uniformity in the sense that every investor gets 10,000 euros each. There are limited amounts and precisely prescribed how much state aid in money can be obtained by an investor if it meets the relevant parameters provided for by the State aid Act, and that is all very precisely defined. What is important to stress is that the state of Serbia does not make any discrimination between investments coming from abroad and domestic investment, or investments originating from Serbia. Any product produced in Serbia goes either to the EU market, or to the Russian market, or to the Turkish, Chinese, any other market, as goods produced in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58726	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58727	Don't make it look unsaid what was asked as a question to me earlier. If the Fiat were not produced in Serbia, there would be no topic of any talks between Serbia and Russia at any level, it would not exist as a topic. Of course, it's always a question for the Russian side whether they want something to be placed on their market or not, and those in that direction have absolutely the right to their own interest, as they have their own production of this type of industry, so they also have some projection needs. We don't have the right to be angry with someone and say it's not friendship, if they don't agree with the placement of a certain brand, brand or whatever you want. With Europe's will, there would be no theme in any way, because Serbia does not participate in the economic package of sanctions against the Russian Federation, and these European countries, others, which are said to be all theirs, is nothing Serbian, is nothing from Serbia, it will not be like that. They don't want to officially co-operate on that side, but their relationship is their relationship, and our interest, once again, is our interest. When we talk about these subsidies and how big they are, you heard the exact things from Mr. Martinovic. It depends on how high the subsidy per job is of many factors, and among them is the number of jobs. Anyway, you'll agree, foreign investment also involves intensive work in terms of a large number of jobs, a thousand, two thousand new jobs, but that is, let's say, one of the parameters when it determines how much support it will be from our budget. The second is a total investment. The one who comes with the intention of spending a lot of normal is that on our side will have the proper hearing for that fact. It is completely equal, therefore, as far as the rules go, whether it is from Serbia or not. You won't find a single letter different. The average subsidy, when you look at what is paid for, is indeed about four thousand euros. Do you know how many other countries, which were in the same position as Serbia, gave subsidies? Here's Slovakia only, by 20,000, by 30,000, so that's a few times more than what is falsely shown to be spending Serbia, and there really was so much. In the auto-industry, for the biggest things, the biggest investments, you know how much there was per job in Slovakia? At 60,000 euros, it was worth it too, and we say four thousand on average, Serbia is not worth it. It's worth a lot of money because when you look at it with the lowest labour price, and they're not all over the place, there's a whole lot of good stuff and there's a lot of good... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... To count with the lowest, you know how much the four grand is worth in a year and four months? Anyone who has come and stayed in Serbia to work, and everyone who has stayed longer than a year and four months, this nation has paid off.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58728	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58729	As for robbery privatisations in Serbia and the whole period until 2012, some very important lessons were to be learned. So, the economic model applied in Serbia, so-called shock therapy since 2000, with this accelerated privatisation, where everything worth selling in Serbia was sold to domestic tycoons, such as sugars and everything else, which to investors so-called. He ruined Serbia from abroad. And those permanent investments in Serbia, they don't come from the so-called the political west. As far as exports to the Russian Federation are concerned, they are very different customs rates related to both Serbian and foreign products, i.e. a product that is not Serbian. Compared now to Slovakia, that we are now comforting ourselves because it is a good model, because in Slovakia much more money is given, the Slovaks first have a more developed industry and are members of the EU. No state will ever develop, nor does this example exist in co-operation, co-ordination with the IMF. All you can see is what's worth it and pick it up for strangers. It's a model of the IMF both in the Balkans and in South America and everywhere it appears to help and that's a fact. We Serbian radicals think it should be enough for us to change our foreign policy priorities, because the fact is also that all the biggest projects and all the biggest investments in Serbia, in the last few years, are not coming from the EU. Look at what's going on with NIS, look at what's going on with Jelizar in Smedereva, and they said how much money is being thrown, millions of euros a day it seems to me that it was RTB Bor. These investments did not come from the EU and did not come with political conditions and did not come to rob and leave, as some have recommended by the IMF. We now have a similar situation, where state money is being stolen for the Moravia Corridor and Bechtel.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58730	I thank my colleague Seselj. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58731	My colleague Seselj and I agree that privatisation in Serbia was bad. First, the Privatisation Act was misconceived, i.e. then the authority that brought it in 2001 chose a poor model of privatisation, and to make the matter worse and so bad the Privatisation Act was in practice misused. Privatisation made sense, i.e. the purpose of privatisation, should have been to revive those companies that did not do good business, which did business with loss, which did not have any export perspective. However, in most cases, something completely opposite happened. Instead of reviving domestic production and reviving these business entities that were subject to privatisation, these economic operators have been brought into an even worse situation than they have been until the initiation of the privatisation process or have been completely shut down and their work has been completely changed. We talked about it, and we agree on it, there's no dilemma. Business entities that existed all over Serbia, some of them turned into auto-salons, into some warehouses, or were simply completely abandoned. I can give you a concrete example when it comes to the Krusik battery factory in Valjevo. It was a company that exported tanks to the former Yugoslavia, Iraq and many other countries. She was one of the most successful companies in the area in Europe. This company is privatized by a man who now, every day, mostly via Twitter, does it, Zoran Cicak. That's the one that Zoran Cicak was to you in his time, if I'm not mistakenly a member of the Federation of Communists, a 1990 movement for Yugoslavia, and now NATO's chief lobbyist. He privatised along with some of his Slovak partners, the "Krusik" Valjevo battery factory and made a wasteland. It's just one example of how privatisation was conducted in Serbia. What we disagree on is that you criticise the state aid model that exists in the Republic of Serbia, that is, what people understand as granting subsidies. It's called state aid under the law, because state aid involves not only giving money, it involves some other types of assistance, for example. exemptions for a certain period of time for paying taxes on profits and obtaining under more favourable conditions of building land, etc. but this applies to both domestic natural and legal persons and to the physical and party sides of the person. As for exports to Russia, “Fiita”, it is one subject that cannot be reduced to this – Putin believes that “Fiat” is an Italian product, so he will not accept it on his market, the Russian market. I'm not much of an expert on the area, but the Russian market needs some other types of cars. For them, "Fiat" is a weak car, according to its performances, because Russian geography is different from both Serbian geography and Italian geography. They tend more towards German vehicles. You were in Moscow, you were in Russia, you saw. After all, purchasing power has jumped under Putin, the Russians today can afford expensive vehicles. They can afford new Mercedes. I've seen them in Moscow, brand-new Mercedes, new audiences, new BMWs, etc. You couldn't see cars like that in Moscow. Now you can see them because the Russian economy has revived and for them it is simply “Fiat” a weak car. A car that has 1200 cc's and it's for a Russian who lives who knows where, somewhere in the far east and who should drive it on snow and ice, a weak car. For us, he's a good car, but our geography is completely different from the geography of Russia, and that's also one factor you have to consider. (President: Time.) ) And I end up with Mr Arsic and thank you for understanding, the full name of the company in Kragujevac is "Fiat Cars Serbia". The name clearly states that the domestic company, registered in Serbia, is operating under Serbian regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58732	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58733	You may be right that the preferences of Russian consumers are different and that they might not even buy the "Fiat" from Kragujevac, but they did not say – we will not import because our consumer preferences are different, but because it is not a Serbian product. That's it. As far as state aid is concerned, I have not heard that some businessman in Serbia has received a million euros in land in Subotica, as Ametek from America received for free. So that was maybe two years ago. What we need to understand as soon as possible is that no one on the side will help us develop the Serbian economy, that we should do what is in our national interest and cooperate with countries with which we can co-operate equally, without political conditions, and we can only see what it looks like when it was banned from the actual construction of the South Stream. Because it is against the European Union's policy at the time, which now imposes sanctions on Russia and conflicts with Russia, but no one has banned the construction of North Stream 2, which supplies Germany and Central Europe with gas. So co-operation with Russia can, when Europe benefits from it, and when it should have Serbia and be a serious momentum for overall economic development, then Russia cannot be supported in this way. That should be understood by the Serbian government. If it wasn't for our friends who were blackmailing us, who just wanted to pick up what was valuable here, and they don't really care what good it was and whether it would benefit the citizens of Serbia at all, what would be the end result of these privatisations and everything else. Yes, in the theory of economics is a model of private ownership better than state property, but we do not have that experience in Serbia and we need to take further steps in this experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58734	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58735	Now that I'm listening to my colleague Seselj, it turns out that Serbia doesn't have any friends. Now Putin is not a friend because he doesn't want cars from Kragujevac, he's not our friend, the European Union, because he's blackmailing us. Do we even have any friends and partners in the world? We at SNS think we do. You said well, the Russians and the Chinese became our strategic partners in Bor, Smederevo, in investing in rebuilding railway infrastructure, Azerbaijani companies, Turkish companies, building our highways, and on the other hand we have an increasingly better and better external trade balance when it comes to European Union countries. So we need to work with both the West and the East. I don't see what the problem is if an investment comes from Germany, France, Italy or any other Western country, and that leads to the creation of 500, 1,000, 2,000 or 5,000 jobs in Serbia. We have been able to reduce the unemployment rate from 26% to 11% thanks to the government's policy since 2014, and employ more than 200,000 people in a few years, which is a huge result. Had it not been for that policy, the big question is what would have happened to the state of Serbia in the first place. You have to take care of one more thing. As much as we all love Russia, both you and I, Russia is geographically from us far away. It is much easier and much closer to the Russians to invest in countries that are directly in their neighbourhood than in Serbia. And we are surrounded by the countries of the European Union, whether we want to accept it or not. Hungary, our neighbour, is in the European Union, Romania is in the European Union, Bulgaria is in the European Union, Greece is in the European Union, Italy is in the European Union, Austria is in the European Union, Germany is in the European Union. These are all countries that are so close to us compared to Russia. Russia is relatively far, compared to all these countries I was talking about. You're saying we should only export to Russia, or to the countries of the Eurasian Union. Put on paper an item called transport costs, so you'll see how hard our goods are to break into that far Asian or Central Asian market. Easier and cheaper to take goods to Hungary than to Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan or to some remote parts of Russia. So the simple bill tells you that you cannot avoid economic co-operation with the European Union. I am not talking about their policy, I am not talking about the fact that the policy of certain Member States of the European Union always likes Serbia, far from that, there are many painful topics that we disagree on, above all the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. (President: I thank my colleague Martinovic. ) But on the other hand, I end up with the fact that we do not agree politically on certain issues with individual Member States of the European Union, does not mean that we should end any kind of economic co-operation with them. After all, take, rationally observe things. Did the state of Serbia have any economic damage from an investment that came from any of the European Union's Member States? Neither the state of Serbia nor the citizens of Serbia, nor that they have had any damage, we have only benefit, and this also shows you a three-year surplus in the budget and a steady growth in gross social product and an increase in employment, i.e. a drastic reduction in the unemployment rate, and what is also important, strengthening the purchasing power of the population in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-18-0.u58736	Thank you. Since the circle of replicas continues, I'm setting a break. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
