ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 2011, the Republic of Serbia has been trying to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue through EU-sponsored dialogue. The government has moved dialogue from UN and Security Council levels to EU level by 2012 and has been installed in Kosovo by Mission Eulex, which aims to build Kosovo institutions. We in public can only learn speculation about Serbia's negotiating positions, in general about the plan and the proposal for some so-called. A compromise between Serbs and Kosovo Albanians, and I refer to the parliamentary issues of Ms. Ani Brnabic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic, President of the Republic - which are the negotiating positions of Serbia, what is our position and whether to find out what we want in Kosovo and Metohija, as is the custom of being said by Aleksandar Vukic, we must go to a panel organised in Belgrade, where is the main topic, so far, the range and process of normalisation of relations between the authorities in Belgrade and Pristina, where is the main participant of Kosovo President Hashim Thaci, Blerim Shala? Should I go to Belgrade and especially the National Assembly to listen to what Blerim Shala says in Kosovo and Metohija, or do we ask ourselves something? On the other hand, where are the authorities in Belgrade's reactions because of this event? In addition to the advisers of the president of Kosovo, Ilir Deda, vice-president of the party Alternative from Pristina, Fakrim Musliu and Beljuj Behaj, a doctor of political sciences from Pristina. Are we having dialogue here in Belgrade now? Of course, there are Sonja Biserko and Cedomir Jovanovic on the spray. Where is the progress information for this dialogue? On the other hand, Mrs Ana Brnabic said in November that if Kosovo does not lift a 100% fee on Serbian goods, it will be expelled within 90 days from the CEFTA agreement. Here, it's been a little over 90 days, about 120, what's going on with the CEFTA deal? What have we done to protect the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija who are on the verge of the humanitarian crisis because of these taxis or are we going to ask what Blerim Shala thinks? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last week we had an unfavorable event when an anti-Serbian court in The Hague sentenced the former president of Republika Srpska to life imprisonment on a made-up charge. Where are the reactions from Belgrade? Do we agree with that? Do we accept that Radovan Karadzic is guilty of so-called. Genocide? You know, I had the hope that it would change when I watched Anna Brnabić, who said in an interview with Deutsche, that there was no genocide in Srebrenica and there was no genocide. Anyone who knows and knows the Convention on Genocide, who knows anything about international law and who can read and write can see that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. So, where's the president's reaction, where's the Serbian officials' reaction to that? Did we deal with that? Do we accept that we are a genocide people? It will no longer bring us closer to the EU. And if we keep our mouths shut and we accept it, it'll just show how weak our spine is, that they can do whatever they want with us, whatever comes to mind, and we don't have any conversation. I urge the authorities in Belgrade to change such behaviour and that politics begin to be guided by the principles of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52817	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52818	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my parliamentary question has been addressed by the MUP, and on the very disturbing media allegations of the preparation of any bloody conflicts planned for April 13th, for when the opposition's protest was scheduled. Namely, the daily "Informer" of March 26th this year wrote about how Bosko Obradovic, at a meeting of his leadership in his movement, told his closest associates nothing less than to order him to prepare for "Mayan". Anyone who doesn't remember, "Maydan" is a bloody conflict that caused civil war in Ukraine in 2014. I'll quote you a piece. "Bosko told us to be ready for anything. He said we needed maximum radicalization, that we had to bring the situation to total heat. He mentioned Ukraine and the Ukrainian script three times as an example to be seen. Two officials tried to oppose him, but Bosko Obradovic silenced them." This is all said by the source "Informer", who is otherwise a member of the most senior management of the Dvori. Today, we have the front page of "Informer" on which we can see -- they're making "Maydan" in Serbia and it's still said -- they even want to surround buildings where politicians and journalists live. The public, logically, is upset. The public is particularly upset because we know that it is Bosko Obradovic, who is unfortunately a symbol of violence in Serbia. We're all witnessing his violent behavior. We're all witnessing his violent methods. Just a few days ago he was one of the defendants breaking into the RTS building, to immediately the next day in front of the presidency building at a protest so-called. The opposition was the first to call for clashes with the police. I believe that the authorities must react and have to deal with such allegations in particular, especially if we know that the opposition is aware itself that in a regular way in the elections it will not be able to come to power. They want to be brought to power by the street. That's why the public is upset, because we expect the street to bring someone to power and because they're obviously ready to cause chaos and disorder, just to get to the authorities. In particular, it concerns the fact that Gilas traveled to Washington, how we can see from writing the press, where he asked for support for exactly what their plans are. On that note, we haven't heard him deny anything like that. It is obvious that we are dealing with people who are ready for anything, and that they are risking riots, chaos and bloodshed to achieve their goals. They are ready even to attack the Serbian Orthodox Church and Patriarch Irine because they did not like his statement. They even went so far as to insult the victims of Serbia's bombing, only because Aleksandar Vukic was at a ceremony marking NATO aggression on Serbia. I will give you an example, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Jeremic's MP, said on Friday 22 March at a protest in Nis literally that a traveling circus is coming to Nis, referring to this very event marking the death of our people in NATO bombing. So it's for her traveling circus. This way she directly insulted all the victims of the bombing. In this way she made a direct mockery of all the people who lost their closest to the bombing and NATO aggression, without any shame she told the traveling circus for the complete state summit of Serbia and Republika Srpska, for religious chiefs, for diplomatic crusts, for members of the military and police and for all the people who then came to pay tribute to the dead. It is the same, to remind ourselves, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who told "Storm" that it is a legitimate action and that Srebrenica is a genocide. Is this the patriotism that Sanda Raskovic Ivić offers? Are these the qualities offered at the opposition protests? For each conviction is such a shameful statement by Sanda Raskovic Ivić precisely in Nis who suffered so much damage, which suffered terrible losses during and after the bombing. I'd remind the public that Nis was bombed for 29 days, 26 civilians died, 60 people were injured, more than 200 people were injured. Only on Forest Street in one day, not in one day, at one point, 15 people lost their lives. 324 missiles were fired on Nis, the largest of which were cluster bombs, even 161. Unlike Sanda Raskovic Ivić and the organizer of the protest in Nis, we will never forget the horrors we experienced in the bombing of Forest Street, Duvaništa, Clinical Center. It is those protest organisers who will be in Nis tomorrow and Dragan Gilas are the ones who are the most responsible for destroying our city. The niche remembers, never will such an opposition be able to defeat the SNS, because Nishli remembers who, as well as how he exercised power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52819	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MP Djordje Milicevic. In accordance with Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 101(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I interrupt the work of this session in order to maintain 21. Special sessions of the National Assembly in the 11th Assembly, which was called for today on 28 March 2019 starting at 11.00 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the suspended session will continue after the end of the 21st session. Special sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, as we move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts set out in points 6 to 9 of the agenda. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search with proposals for acts referred to in points 6 to 9 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as if this time were allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of that parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session was invited to attend Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia with his associates. Consent to Articles 170 and 192. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for Act Confirmation Act, the establishment of an Asian and Infrastructure Investment Bank, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the Co-operation of Crime, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Securities Commission. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52821	Dear President, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, first I want to say the only reason why I am here and I represent these acts to be done, is that Minister Stefanovic and Minister Sinisa Mali, currently outside Belgrade, were unable to attend this session. So I'm going to go first on the bill of confirmation of acts on the establishment of the Asian Infrastructure Bank. You have before you a bill on the confirmation of the Act on the establishment of the Asian Infrastructure Bank. First, I'd like to mention the basic information about the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. It was based on the initiative of the People's Republic of China in 2015, when 57 members signed the Act of Accession, or adopted the Act of Establishment, of which 37 countries are regional bank members and 20 non-regional. The bank began working in January 2016 as a relatively new multilateral development bank with a capital of $100 billion, originally founded to be a regional financial institution, but has joined a large number of members outside the Asian Pacific region, such as Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and others, so that the bank has an international character and currently numbers 93 Member States, and the bank's headquarters is located in Beijing. The aim of the AIB is to promote sustainable economic development, create wealth and improve the integration of infrastructure in Asia, invest in infrastructure and other manufacturing sectors, and promote regional co-operation and partnership, working closely with other multilateral development institutions. The Bank was awarded the highest credit rating by Standard and Poors, Fitch Children, AIB as an international financial institution on a newer date represents an alternative to the World Bank and the IMF. In order to finance infrastructure, as well as energy, telecommunications, environmental protection and rural development projects, the AIB will grant favourable loans to Member States. In addition to China, the largest participation in the capital of this bank is India, the Russian Federation, Germany, Australia, France, Great Britain. Each member of the AIB shall establish a voting stake according to its participation in the capital of the bank. By establishing a letter of intent from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, she expressed her interest in joining the AIB, based on which the Board of Directors of the Bank offered membership to our country. Acting on the government's conclusion of 18 October 2018, which adopted the draft letter of application for membership of the Republic of Serbia on AIB, the finance minister sent the bank an official application for membership, which the board of governors discussed, to a session held in December 2018. Following the ratification of the act on the establishment of the deposit of instruments on the accession and payment of the bank's first participation rate, the Republic of Serbia will officially become a non-regional member of the bank. The provisions of the founding act have defined the basic purpose and function of the bank, membership, capital, financial operations, or funds at the disposal of the Bank, management, suspension of membership, termination of business, status and immunity of the Bank and its staff, arbitration, selection, authorisation of the Board of Governors, Board of Directors and Presidents and voting procedures. The Bank will provide financial support to its members, their agencies, institutions and legal entities operating in the territory of the Member States through the approval of co-financing or participation in direct loans, capital investments, guaranteeing different loans intended for economic development, the allocation of funds from specific funds and the provision of technical assistance to encourage the development of infrastructure and other manufacturing sectors. Using available resources, the bank will finance projects and programmes, which will contribute most effectively to harmonised economic growth and development in general, especially with regard to the needs of less developed members. By joining the bank, it allows the Republic of Serbia access to favourable loans, credit funds to realise priority projects in our country and ensure greater competitiveness of credit offers. The entry into force of the law confirming an act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is a condition for the Act of Establishment to become a forceful one and its provisions legally binding and applicable on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is also a prerequisite for the Republic of Serbia to carry out all planned activities in the accession process, provide the necessary documentation and meet its first-war payment obligations based on enrolment of payment actions. Next is the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime was signed on 16 April 2013, in Villanus, but the Lithuanian side subsequently announced a correction in the signed text of the Agreement, which was the reason to stop the confirmation process. In particular, the correction referred to the first sentence of Article 8 between the words ‘protection’ and the words ‘inframination’, the word ‘confidential’, so that the sentence reads ‘The competent authorities guarantee each other the protection of confidential information forwarded under this Agreement’. In view of the fact that it was only a technical error, or one word left out in Article 8. The agreement, this ministry accepted the amendment proposal in the text and notified the Lithuanian side of the diplomatic process. The draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime will contain the consolidated text of the Agreement. For the Republic of Serbia, such co-operation could be useful in terms of intensifying and improving co-operation with one of the EU countries, as well as the basic motive for the conclusion of the agreement in question. During the EU presidency in the second half of 2013, Lithuania actively supported the continuation of the accession process of the Republic of Serbia, expressing its readiness to step up co-operation in the Euro-integration area through the transfer and experience of this approach process at the political and expert level. In April 2013, a memorandum on co-operation between the two governments in the areas of European integration was signed. By passing a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime, the Republic of Serbia shows its readiness to improve bilateral co-operation with the Republic of Lithuania in the area of security. Furthermore, the adoption of a law on the confirmation of the Agreement in question creates the preconditions for a joint action against security challenges, risks and threats, not only to the Republic of Serbia, but to global security challenges, risks and threats. At the same time, the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of this Agreement gives rise to conditions for more effective co-operation between the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Lithuania in the area of the fight against crime. At the same time, the adoption of a law confirming the Agreement in question creates a legal framework for intensifying and improving co-operation with one of the EU countries. The approval of the Agreement shall allow its entry into force, as provided for in Article 13. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52822	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52823	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the Proposer and the Committee on Budgetary, Finance and Public Expension Control, today we have on the agenda a proposal from the President of the Securities Commission. At a meeting of the Committee on 21 March 2019, the Committee held a discussion with the candidate and since the proposal for the President of the Committee on Papers was of value to date, then we had opportunities, as members of the Committee, to really hear what has been done so far, how much the Commission has changed in its work and what is to expect from the work of this Commission in the future, but most importantly, it is that the Commission itself as an institution of competence of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We had the opportunity to hear from the candidates a certain thing that so far in the reports, which were filed, we had no opportunity to hear. Since 2016, the candidate has also actively participated in many changes in the work of the institution itself. I must say that the number of acts that have been done as a way of working, which the Commission has been working on in the last two years, is actually opening up the possibility of improving the capital market in Serbia and opening up new opportunities for the inflow of foreign, direct investment and not only concrete foreign direct investment, but also so-called foreign direct investment. a portfolio of foreign investors. These are signs of a series of projects where foreign investors see the possibility to invest their capital in Serbia through different types of projects, from those related, what Mr. Loncar was saying about the very Asian Investment Infrastructure Bank, which concerns these profitable sectors to those so-called. non-profitable, and to us very important, as are in the fields of health, culture and education. What we have had the opportunity to hear from the candidate himself, is that so far, in these past two years, the Commission has held 83 sessions and given an opinion on 11.786 cases. So that's an impressive number, which was really meant to be working on the new five members of the Securities Committee, the 40 bids she made when it came to privatisation, three prospectuses, 62 consent to investment funds that they could work on certain standards, procedures and legal solutions, but also 36 supervisions where she was in charge, 41 sublegal acts and 33 opinions. Thus, it has shown that it is really actively involved in the capital market policy in Serbia, although it stressed that the dominant impact of participation in the capital market is over 90% by banks. However, this gives the opportunity to participate in the capital market, many others who are not banks and different investment funds, then insurance companies. The aim of them is to create, together with the Finance Ministry, such a legislative regulatory framework that will indeed ensure the inflow of foreign direct investment, you know that it means new jobs and new factories. She actively participated in the European integration process, when it comes to Chapters 4, 6, 9 and 17. What is important to us is that in the coming period, what awaits us as MPs, actively participates in the creation of new legal solutions, such as the Stock Exchanges Act and the Accounting and Audit Act, where the Securities Commission itself would take its own part. So, with the very presentation of the candidates, we have been given notice that this is only the beginning of the change and the internal and external work of this Commission itself, which currently employs 35 employees. What's important to say is that when you see the biography of the candidate himself, I have to say that when we chose him as a member of the Securities Committee, he got a complete number of votes and positions and opposition precisely because he was on the biggest test in terms of general securities of value, that then all the members of the Committee participated in that election and that he really found adequate, professional answers and solutions for all the issues that were asked him. It is said of Mr. Mark Jankovic, a graduate economist at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Belgrade University, in 1982, who, apart from his acquired academic knowledge, has a different kind of license, speaks English, Russian and German. What he wants to say is that he had the opportunity to, as executive director of different organisations in his career, where he participated in their process of adopting strategic documents, especially when it comes to reporting to the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the Securities Commission. So he had a chance to see it both outside and inside what the work of state institutions and the market itself looked like. That it was from 2014 to 2016 at the Centre for Factor d.o.o., part of which deals exclusively with risks, that from 2007 to 2012 the bank was the main broker at the Credit Agrole Bank, as a member of that committee, which is currently engaged in securities of value and that it simply sees as the biggest jobs certain participations in the regular purchases of vault records. Then, in the sale of Agricole life Serbia insurance and representing a large number of small shareholders, as well as doing business as a corporate agent. So it's a biography with which he entered for a member of the Securities Commission's board, and this is all before that, in fact, his participation in the work that led to the different activities of the Securities Commission itself. What is most important is that he said in his statement that he wants to change a lot when it comes to legislative regulation, precisely because he would adequately respond to all changes in the capital markets that are happening in accordance with the policy, not only the Government of Serbia, but to the politics and president of the Republic of Serbia, which for the first time united the work of all institutions in order for Serbia to always produce very good results when it comes to the financial effects of work and the fiscal consolidation itself, which we have survived in the previous four years and the economic reforms that Serbia has carried out. In order to ensure the conditions of a more legislative one, the economic growth of Serbia that needs to go above four percent should change, we think that he is the right person who, together with the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, will be able to really make his full contribution to changing certain legal proposals, which will give Serbia the opportunity to really go into high growth and to go towards opening up as a state and implementing our legislation and harmonising, not only with EU standards, but also with global standards, that the capital market does not know the borders, but in that sense that you must preserve your national economy and work in the interests of all Serbian citizens. So, we believe that the proposal for President of the Securities Commission, Marko Jankovic, is an adequate proposal for a position like this, in a place like this for institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52824	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word is from a colleague, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52825	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in this united debate, we are discussing four draft agendas. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania is an agreement that was concluded on 16 April 2013 and that is, in general, our objection, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia actually assumes certain obligations and that the factual agreement is already in force before the year, two, three or five of the National Assembly confirms it. And if it weren't for that, we don't think this agreement should be ratified in any way, nor should such an agreement be signed. The Republic of Serbia has nothing to seek in relations with the Republic of Lithuania, especially not on co-operation in the fight against crime, given the fact that the country's situation is in fact in the country and in Serbia, of course, by looking at it, first of all, towards the Russian Federation, and we should probably take care of it and finally define ourselves as a state, or you who are the authority to define whether Russia is our permanent strategic partner or whether you still think that you are cinculating in two chairs. We have long been telling you that this is not possible, and whenever we get a proposal like this, then we actually realize that you are not serious about relations with the Russian Federation and that you think that you can deceive them and instead of making a commitment to finally assign diplomatic status to members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis and that the same centre opens in Novi Sad on the initiative of the Serbian Radical Party and more than 30,000 signatures that we have handed over to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, you still want to cooperate with those who are not actually friends of Serbia. No one who recognises the fake state of Kosovo can be a friend of Serbia and must make peace with it. I suppose you should be aware of what's going on with Kosovo and Metohija, in what state we are now as a state, in what state people, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are in. This morning, we asked the Prime Minister and the president of the state to finally tell the National Assembly, and the public of Serbia what a platform it is, what it is that we are going to talk about, what our so-called. red lines, etc. It's not gonna happen. You don't even have one. You're telling a general story, and there's a problem. Lithuania recognised Kosovo's independence, the fake state of Kosovo, as early as 6 May 2008, and joined the European Union on 1 May 2004. It is interesting that the parliamentary majority of Lithuania at the time claimed that the recognition of the false state of Kosovo would actually promote, imagine, stabilising the Balkans, and a smaller number of MPs in their assembly, who voted against Kosovo's independence and who did not recognise that independence, claimed what is a fact and what proved to be so, that this recognition would actually cause regional tension and they warned that it would be precedentd in violating the territorial integrity of the sovereign state. Do you know who those minority MPs were? Of course, Russians. The Russian brothers who also took care of the interests of Serbia and the Serb people in their parliament. Lithuania, therefore, was, imagine how hasty they were, the 39th country in a row that recognised the state's independence in the territory of the Serbian state. Now, why do we think he can't, we said for political reasons why we don't need co-operation with them, and why can't we co-operate with them in the fight against crime? Well, because they're pretty much a crime scene in their country. The Zvornik clay factory, Republika Srpska, survived, was preserved during the war in Republika Srpska and worked until 2001, worked well and then privatised by Lithuanians with then-republic authorities. Privatisation was carried out by some Ukio group. By 2014, nearly a billion KMs had been pulled out of the clay. At that time, in the time of the former Yugoslavia, the clay factory was the largest export factory in Republika Srpska. Former Minister Zoran Tegetija, the finance minister in Republika Srpska's government, then called the group of Lithuanian controversial businessmen bandits because of what they did to Glinica and Republika Srpska. So that's just one example, which is why, specifically, there's no reason to conclude a deal like this. The Serbian Radical Party, our parliamentary group is absolutely against the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime. When it comes to the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Securities Commission, we have some objections here. We generally think that whoever exercises power should respond to all segments of society and human resources rarely put some remarks and what we're about to say, because it's actually your responsibility, what we're going to do now is concrete, and more generally, what your way of working is. We just heard the most beautiful thing about this candidate, the one you're going to choose. Marko Jankovic's name is. He graduated from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics with an average score of 8.39. We're short the data on how much he studied here. That's what we're always looking for with the judges. The average of 8.39 can also be earned in ten years of study, and can also be regular four. So, we need that information. As for what you put out here as a recommendation and what he wrote about himself, well, it's not exactly a skill, at least it wasn't necessary at the jobs he listed here and who he was doing. You're saying he's got a broker's license and he's got a value paper and a financial market. Then he says he was at the "Centrom" executive director, working on the organisation of all processes of work. He must have fried the coffee. He took part in the company's strategic decisions and in the implementation of the Board of Directors' decisions. Now, did he organize or participate in the decision-making process? That's a little different. From 2007 to 2012 Mr Jankovići was engaged in the Credit Agrikol Bank. There was a major broker there, he was a member of the develompet committee of the Credit Agrill Bank. He collaborated with the Securities Commission, with the Central Securities Register. He was trading on the auction platform of the Treasury Department. He was a stockbroker Euro-hypo a.d. and then he says – his biggest business is the regular purchase of vault records again for the Kredit Agrikol bank. The consultant is Company Teledirect, etc. And now that all this is read, that is, part of what is presented as its quality to be the director of the Securities Commission, it is more like a conflict of interest to us. Here, judge for yourself and let the public assess on the basis of what we've said. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming an act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the SRS thinks this is good. Our position is generally that Serbia should co-operate in all segments with friendly countries, primarily the Russian Federation and China. Every time our policy is implemented at the level of a government, we support such a thing because this is a permanent policy and attitudes of the SRS. When it comes to these various banks, so-called. "development" that was in Serbia's territory, we have very bad experiences and should be mentioned, just to compare this one good job we've been going through. Here's to remind ourselves, let's say, the famous National Savings, remember the citizens when Dinkic built that National Savings Bank, which was actually a private bank, and then Djindjic went to invest the first dinar, and then after a while said he was deceived, that he really thought it was the National Savings Bank just because it was called that. Now imagine a Prime Minister who can be deceived in such a way. We are afraid, say, that something like this happened to the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, and that she may have been deceived by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. The president of the SRS four, five months ago at least here in the Assembly at a press conference warned and showed and shared with reporters the draft contract that Zorana Mihajlovic signed with Bechtel, where she promised that Bechtel would work on the road on the Moravski Corridor and cost it 800m euros. Then he asked Anna Brnabic, she was sitting here, if she knew about it, and she said she didn't know. So that was at the time, afterwards Zorana Mihajlovic brought Scott to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to remind us, with a broad smile she followed his statement in the middle of the Serbian government, that Kosovo is an independent state and that the Republic of Serbia needs to recognise it. We said then that Chinese companies and companies from Azerbaijan for this job, offer to do this job for 500m euros, means 300m euros less than the Bechtel, which Zoran called the Americans. Bechtel is not an American firm within the meaning of a state firm, it is a private company that served Zorani Mihajlovic and Scott to take a serious commission. What happened? A few days ago, and yes, then it was said that it was just a pre-contract, that there was going to be a tender and there was no saying that it could be pre-determined that this job would be completed. Four - five days ago, Vukic said in his tour of Serbia, I don't know which place he was in, he said - let's just say that the other day we signed a contract with Bechtel for that share of the road in the Moravski Corridor for 800m euros. So 300m euros was stolen from the Republika Srpska budget. Such work and such jobs were actually a problem in 2015 when this Asian Bank for Infrastructure Investments in Beijing was established and then against the establishment of this bank both the IMF and the World Bank were rebelled because they realized that this bank would stand in the way of their malversions. Then, among other things, opponents mostly from the United States claim that the bank's founder's money could be wasted through investments in corrupt and politically unstable states. I guess they meant this "Bechtel" and the corruption that they developed in Serbia like this. So this bank bothers the IMF, it bothers the World Bank, but we think it's a good thing this bank exists. In 2015, the largest shareholders of this bank or India and Russia with a total initial capital of $100 billion, all of which is said to be good business, a good bank, and strategic Serbia must continue serious co-operation, I said, with Russia first but also with China. Now that I am talking about this law, confirming this act on the establishment of this Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, it should be recalled that the NRC is the most important external and commercial and financial partner of the Republic of Serbia on the Asian continent. Of course we welcome it, and it's a good thing it is. The trade between the two countries is a constant increase and what is an intensification of bilateral relations between Serbia and China began in 2009 with a statement of strategic partnership during a visit to Serbia's state-economic delegation in August of that year in China. A framework agreement on economic and technical co-operation between the Serbian government and the NK government was signed on that occasion. In the meantime, it really turned out to be a good strategic partner. The volume of economic co-operation with China by 2014 has reached a record level of $1,650 billion. The co-operation was mirrored in the lending and construction of the Zemun-Borch bridge. China's Tchaina Road has been doing this and has been working on the construction of the Obrenovac-LJig road, the Termopower plant and Kopovi Kostolac. They invested in mining research, financing and building a feasibility study on the Danube-Morava-Vardar water channel. One of the most important agreed projects is building a Belgrade-Budapest railway. The deadline and technical characteristics of the railway are defined. Of course, we welcome this company's arrival, the big company "Huavei" and what we say in public, and we say, it's good that Jelizara Smederevo, that the Chinese bought Jelizar Smederevo and we remind ourselves that the president of our party was in his conferences and public statements, carrying out information, that they wanted to buy us Americans and that this was a serious fraud and that it was also a serious corruption. Fortunately, after these conferences, however, they came to their senses in the government, and it did not happen, but rather this good job was done, as we think it is good that RTB Bor is selling to the Chinese, although there are certain objections to the contract, but in any case it was removed from the back of the budget and the state of Serbia. Generally, the SRS thinks and advises the Government of the Republic of Serbia that as much future co-operation as possible directs not only political but also political, but also economic co-operation on our sincere friends, Russia and China, because, apart from having economic benefits from that, we can be sure that only in sincere but sincere, not this kind of two-faced policy towards those countries that are also world forces, we can count on keeping Kosovo and Metohija within the borders of the Republic of Serbia and that we will preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, which is probably our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52826	Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52827	Dearly beloved, just a few details about the questions you have asked, which is – why has it been so late since 2013, so far not to sign. Let me just remind you that there were technical problems, that certain words were left out and that both sides were not satisfied with this original contract and that the corrections that lasted were then approached. One reason is that one of the parties, i.e. from Lithuania, was a little late in the process, and until the procedure was respected, it could not be signed. As soon as the conditions were matured, as soon as everything was fulfilled, it was signed. I think we all agree that this agreement is in the interest of Serbian citizens, of all Serbian citizens, that it has nothing to do with politics for reasons that crime knows neither the border, does not know so much politics, because if you don't want to cooperate with someone, to exchange information about crime and all that it means, then you will find it difficult to defend yourself both in time and adequately react. That's the only reason. So, in order for Serbian citizens to be safer, the goal of the state is to have as much good co-operation as possible about the exchange of information and all that is necessary so that we do not have any problems in Serbia, which we can prevent if information is obtained in time. That's the only reason. The next thing you know, you've had multiple potentials, and Serbia is sitting on two chairs. To repeat, Serbia has only one chair and it is a Serbian chair. Thank you all for all the other chairs, the only goal and Serbia's only interest is to make Serbia and Serbia's citizens better. We respect everyone and we want to cooperate with everyone, who wants good Serbia and who will do something to make Serbia better. As far as our citizens in Kosovo are concerned, it is best that they say for themselves, and they show that in the elections, what is the relationship and what they think about the current regime in Serbia, how much they take care of them, and they know very well that we will do everything. You asked why not come with a platform or with some proposal in the Assembly, I just want to remind you that there is no other side, there is no negotiations, so you have nothing to talk about, because dialogue always requires a minimum of two. And when you don't have the other one, then there's no point in even talking, because to whom we would pass it on and to enforce that attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52828	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52829	It was not our basic objection why this agreement with Lithuania was signed in 2013, it is our general objection when it comes to confirming the agreement and signing the agreement by the Government. We think it should be the other way around. But we can't, it's really impossible to co-operate, even when it comes to the fight against crime, with one such state that, just to remind you, in the course of the wars of the 1990s, has openly sided with the Ustasha and the Ustasha banishment of Serbs from Republika Srpska. It's just something that makes a normal person say it's an enemy state for all time. Whoever could support the Ustashas, and Lithuania did it, we can't cooperate with them. At least that's the SRS' position. You have a different opinion, and that's why you do it that way. We can't even fight crime, you know, it's okay to co-operate with different countries when it comes to crime, but Ministers, the essence of the fight against crime in Serbia and in every serious country is the fight against corruption, and the fight against corruption is happening in Serbia, in a country where corruption is happening. Corruption is the most dangerous form of crime. Corruption is a crime involving representatives of the government. Corruption is gone if a representative, senior officials from the government do not participate in corruption. And that's the problem that should, firstly, be called open, because, you know, not all citizens know when they say fighting corruption, they think it's a fight against someone who robbed a bank. No, it's a struggle, actually, against representatives of authorities who either participate or allow corrupt actions. And that's why we think you're going the wrong way and you need to focus this way on that fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52830	Thank you, colleague. Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52831	As you know, nobody here wants to say, not in Serbia, but in Europe, that corruption and crime is a serious problem. I still don't think you've convinced me that if you think you're having an exchange of important information, you're going to get something good. If you don't have the information in time, I don't think that's possible. As far as corruption is concerned, I'll just remind you one thing. Here, for the first time it will be in Serbia, many have talked about it, and they have increased it and what they have done, for the first time now it will be the law on the origin of the property. We think it's the best thing for all the people we've mentioned, the ones we've talked about, to prove themselves, that everyone gets the opportunity and those who attacked and those who defend themselves, to prove themselves, to see if they've earned it, whether they've acquired it and what's happened. There was a lot of talk about having to go and work. Here, they're finally going to move and it's not the only way, there are other ways. I absolutely stand for all those who have grown into crime, in corruption to respond, because it will be a great example for future generations not to do so. It's bad if they do it, they go unpunished, and then future generations say what matters, they do it, they go the way they go. The time has come and it will have to change. If it's easy, it's not easy, the obstacle is huge, the opposition and everything, but it's settled and it's going to have to be done. Everyone has to be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52832	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52833	Lithuania is one of the countries that is known for the largest number of corruptions, but since you insist on it, I hope that what I have cited as an example of why we should not cooperate with them, that you will help the Republika Srpska brothers solve the problem of corruption, the purchase of the Zvornik clay factory by these corrupt Lithuanians, by corrupt officials who allowed it. If we need to look for a criminal who may be hiding in Lithuania, you know that we can easily end it through our sincere friends and we don't need this. You mentioned earlier, I didn't arrive for these two minutes, sitting on two chairs, sitting as you say on a Serbian chair, the one who honestly sits on a Serbian chair must know that the only honest guards of that Serbian chair are our Russian brothers, the Russian Federation, that these are China and other friendly countries that have never asked us and will never ask us to amputate part of our territory. All those looking for it can't be our friends, Minister Lonchart. We can't be friends with this friend of Zoran's who comes to the government, I'm talking about Scott, he comes to the government and says: Kosovo is an independent state and it should be recognised by the Republic of Serbia. He can't be our friend. We cannot be friends with someone who is ready to cut off your right hand and say goodbye to my left, I am your friend. No, I don't. So we have to think politically. And you're a minister and a politician. We need to take care of national interests, first of all, because a state that has no clear national attitudes, free roads and construction and whatever you want, if our trip to Raska is going to end with Novi Pazar, and it won't be free to go further through Kosovo and Metohija, what do we need this road for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52834	Thank you. Mr. Lonchart has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52835	I think that for the first time in a recent history, Serbia has exactly the kind of man, Alexander Vukic, who has a vision and who leads Serbia in the right direction and proves it every day, because what he does may not understand today, but will understand for sure tomorrow, but it certainly works best for Serbia. In any case, Serbia has a man who knows how to lead it, who has a vision and who every day achieves results, and that's why all these paths, all those factories and all that work will be worth it. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52836	You have no right. No, I'm not giving up when there's no basis. (Faith Radeta: Don't you give it to me?) I thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52837	For the sake of the public, I would like to explain the proposal for a candidate for the President of the Securities Commission, on the co-worker's case which suspected the candidate's interest. I must say that otherwise, it is mandatory to file documentation that has to be submitted in order to put it on the agenda at all and as a proposal is a biography of candidates with a statement of acceptance of the candidacy, then, a framework plan of the Commission's work, which suggests a candidate, but he has also delivered plus confirmation that there has never been a conviction and notification by the Anti-Corruption Agency that there is no interference to perform this function. I also have to say that in 2016 he also addressed the Anti-Corruption Agency precisely because of these dilemmas, which you may have had, and perhaps we did, but at the moment we called for a public call for a proposal and when you think about a candidate, the candidate himself expressed his desire to simply address the competent institutions, where he will get some confirmation that there is no interference that he is running for a certain function. I think of it as a really positive step and in 2016, and this year, when the candidate is proposed for this place. We have shown essentially that there really is no doubt about it, because we, as MPs, can doubt whether there is any conflict of interest in performing any function, but we think that the only institution is competent to make such a decision professionally and informing the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's why we thought there was really no interference for any performing function. And if there's an experience on his part, that on every side when you're looking at the capital market and at all its work and that it's qualified for this place, it certainly exists. We discussed this in 2016 when it was a proposal for a member of the Securities Committee, and then simply, on the basis of the talks with him, all the board members made this unanimous decision, because then he actually showed on the interview how much he really had knowledge and experience in this area. That's why we've seen that based on that knowledge and what he's been doing for the past two years, he really deserves to be a candidate for this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52838	My colleague Radeta, on what grounds? (Miss Radeta: Replica. To whom? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52839	Why, colleague Arsic, do you ask which line? So to him who spoke a moment ago. You just said not to give me the replica. I was surprised. I thought you were determining according to the Rules of Procedure whether anyone was entitled or not. So, my colleague didn't listen very carefully. I didn't say this candidate was in conflict of interest. I've said very precisely what you call recommendations, more like conflict of interest. So very termologically accurate. And I also said -- you are the government, you have the right to propose, you will choose and you will one day answer, each and every one of you for your job, and we for yours, and you for yours, and criminally and politically. So, Mr. Loncar, you probably got a puck after this session of yours that you weren't among those who were defending the Wolf that day when he was surrounded at Andric's wedding, so now you're here at the rally saying you're giving a round of applause that Wolf is like this or like that. I didn't mention Wolfie in my discussion. I was talking about politics, I was talking about this particular proposal, and I was talking about sitting on two chairs. The fact that you recognize the Wolf sitting on two chairs, bravo, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52840	Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52841	First, I must disappoint you. I was in the presidency the whole time with President Wolfie. Secondly, I have to tell those heroes who are coming and chasing that I will always be in such situations with President Vukic and that I will always be outside, because I think Alexander Vukic is the man Serbia deserves, whom citizens deserve, who can do a lot of good things for Serbia and already do them. I'm responsible, I know him enough, and you know him very well, you know him very well, I'm glad for that, and you know very well, you can say one and the other, to Alexander Vukic in the first place is Serbia, absolutely. And everything will be done for the citizens of Serbia and there will be a result behind it, a improvement for Serbia and its citizens, especially for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52842	Comrade Radeta, you really don't have the right to a replica right now. I'll be brief. Will you be brief? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52843	It's good, Minister Lonchar, that you were in the presidency that day. Really, they were hiding you from the cameras, I don't know what, whether you weren't playing chess or what, it doesn't matter. So, of course, it was meant to protect the institution of the president of the state that day, because no one has the right to enter the institutions. We're, say, against RTS leadership, and we've long been looking for a shift in that leadership, but we said that no one has the right with the saws and that way savagely to enter the RTS. Just to tell you, you say that you know Vukic and that we know him and you say – Serbia is in the heart and in the first place and that we should say it here. Mr. Loncaru, there is a great Serbia in his heart. You'll see soon enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52844	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me support the great Serbia. What's a big Serbia? For me, it is the great Serbia, not the one that is only territorially large, for me, that great Serbia is the one that is valuablely great. I wish she had more territory. At this point, he's got what he's got. They're changing boundaries. These are historic processes, but I like Serbia to be big and when it's supposed to be territorially small. Great Serbia inside is a guarantee of peace in the Balkans. A large, valuablely large Serbia on the inside will lead to our opponents becoming our allies. Republika Srpska may be closer to us than some of today's parts of Serbia. I'm looking forward to it. I look forward to Serbia becoming bigger and bigger inside. I am also grateful to the opposition for listing all the projects that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has implemented and this ruling majority, especially with regard to Chinese projects. Let's think of Sartide, remember the infrastructure, the highways, remember Bora, I don't know if I counted it, remember everything the Chinese and the Russians invested in Serbia. I'm grateful to them. I must warn both Eurosceptics and EU lovers that we cannot, in my opinion, without each other. I don't think China would invest this much in Serbia if it didn't believe that it could access an even bigger market through Serbia. I think that the Serbian steel market, for copper, for products, for roads, for the infrastructure that Serbia's goods should go to, the EU's path would not be so interesting that those who invest do not believe that through investments in Serbia they will join a bigger market, but also do not believe what these DS unfortunate people believe would be good for Serbia. I don't think so. No economic benefit would our citizens benefit from this breakup, as no economic benefits would come from breaking up with the EU. One philosopher said that success is when you make an ally of your opponent. You have to convince him. That's how you reduce the number of opponents. I'm not that we don't have co-operation in the fight against crime with Lithuania. Let's remember Chaba Derry or what was the name of the criminal who was arrested in the Czech Republic. If it wasn't for that co-operation of the authorities, I believe that this multiple killer wouldn't have fallen. I don't go into the operating ways that it happened, even if I knew, I wouldn't say, and I don't know. Who guarantees that tomorrow some murderer will not be wiped out in Lithuania and that thanks to co-operation with Lithuanian authorities, we will not catch a terrorist, say, from Kosovo. If we do not cooperate with countries that have recognised KIM in a safe sense, unfortunately, they have confessed, then we cannot have that co-operation with Montenegro either, and Montenegro is a waste of criminals, a waste of criminals. Milo Djukanovic has been making his private state to the detriment of the Serb people. Montenegro, which I do not dispute, was the Serbian state of vazda, they say, and the vasda will be, regardless of the current state and the private state of Milo Djukanovic, which is persecuting in a certain way the Serbs. He has made the state of Montenegro a divider of criminals, so God gives me and shelter for Albanian terrorists. He made business with them. He recognised Albanian terrorists for political leadership. He recognised the false state of Kosovo, our province of KIM. He's branched out with them. He's a criminal who raises criminals, but I don't think it's up to me to advise their security authorities that we break up co-operation in the fight against crime and corruption. Milo's a passing thing. Every power is a transitory matter. Montenegro as a Serbian state is not a passing thing. Serbia will one day be in league with Serbian states, but it is a process and we must not threaten the current neighbours that this will happen by force or by any means of our will. This will happen through the will of the people and not only of the Serb. I believe that Serbia will be better standing, and here we have this bank Asian, if we wisely invest these funds in membership, in infrastructure, in economy, because it's not just about infrastructure, read this law a little more carefully, I believe when we raise the economy that everyone will want with Serbia. I ask you, would the Albanians like to go with Switzerland? I'd love to. Would Bosniaks want stronger relations with Serbia? Would there be less resistance? Would you forget some of your historical lies, plantings, if they saw Serbia moving forward and dragging the region? I believe they'd change their minds. We need to know, too, there's a saying that out of our mutual hatred, that's what Ducic said, only our opponents benefit. Those who hate us with their hate, to turn it into energy, as Tesla said, can shine not only on Serbia but on the whole world. Let's say that Bosko LJotic didn't come here now to lead a parliamentary debate over banks and to tell me he's against foreign banks now, because here we join essentially a bank that's not only Serbian. He's against foreign banks, and he's sitting with those foreign banks that brought you here. The parliamentary debate would be an opportunity for us to tell him live on the broadcast that on the second channel alone, he performed live for 36 hours, which is more than a live performance by the President of the Republic. They're not here today because they ran away. I warn you, and the government will come and I'll ask them that, if they continue to be terrorists like this. They tried a coup. Mr. Minister, the government has missed it softly wanting us not to have that kind of antagonism and to forgive and walk in the right way, into elections, and let them win. No authority is eternal and this one will cease to rule. Maybe they'll come to power. The elections are coming to power. It's democracy. It's a dictatorship for them, but coming to power by force, by coup, by violence, by taking over state institutions, it's democracy for them. It's incompatible to me. I don't know which countries around here can support such bandits. They're political bandits. The madness of political banditism rules Belgrade. Gilas, Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic are three carriers. I ask Zagorko Dolovac – why are not justice brought to justice in the attempt of the coup between Bosko Ljotic and Dragan Djilas? It's not too late. They did serious crimes. You don't go into RTS to scrape wood. It's not a RTS sawmill, RTS is a state institution that is very important, and anyone who goes into the world to take over central television, state central radio and television. It's all kinds of experiences. What are you guys waiting for? He has been calling you since Goracicka, what was the name of that 14-dead radical riot, etc., from history, as far as I know, Mr. Martinovic, in Luciani, so he enters the polling post, breaks boxes, he exercises. They will do it tomorrow throughout Serbia and therefore announce some blood. It was an exercise in the Lucians. He's breaking into a police station asking what the Secretary of State of State of the Interior is doing at the Ministry of the Interior, in the organization, whether it was SUP, OUP, etc., I'm not getting into it. It's a police station, it'd be like asking a patriarch and a bishop -- is it, what are you doing in a church? Now, that's Bosko, he's used to getting into church, taking 5,000 euros, or I don't know in Djurdje's columns, this one took 100,000 euros, etc. We must stay away from those hatreds. Who can guarantee us that when such characters try one more thing, when they start burning under their feet, they won't just disappear in Lithuania? That's why I support all agreements, regardless of the order of the state, who in these countries is government, whether dictatorships, whether they're democracy, whether they're republics, whether they're kingdoms, I support all agreements with which we can reduce both crime and corruption and terrorism. Who guarantees us that these Albanian terrorists, which several states have recognised as political leadership, will not escape to Lithuania tomorrow? Maybe the attitude changes. Since the UCK's terrorist organization has become favorites and freedom fighters, they may be exhausted, perhaps even more of those freedom fighters. Everything in the world is changing, political opportunities are changing, maybe they'll run right into that particular Lithuania, maybe we'll look for them right there. But I don't believe that if we, if this rule is ruled, I believe it will, because it is the will of the people, I don't believe that we will do what the unfortunates Boris Tadic, Đilas, Jeremic etc. did. When Ejup Ganic was detained, he was released at Serbia's request, I don't know if our audience knows it. We will not do this, we will see that in the fight against terrorism, we will be effective in fighting crime, we will co-operate with all states, we will see that this co-operation is two-way, in order to reach those who have sinned against the state of Serbia and its cash register. I'd love to, of those that announce highways, because we found a broken meadow, it wasn't a state, a decomposed meadow, abandoned, without infrastructure, without railways, railways were going, train speed was 30 and a few kilometers, to Bar was traveling for three days. That's what we found. The highways were mostly made of half clay, half of which I don't know what. I wish they'd block the roads they made. I don't know what they'd block in that case, but I recommend they don't block traffic, because it sends a very ugly picture and keeps our citizens from getting to their jobs, friends, to live normally. You have to pay attention to them, the situation can be very dangerous, because they don't go to the polls anymore. Drago Gilasu is in a hurry. Dragan Gilasu is in a hurry, afraid of the law you mentioned, he's in a hurry. He will risk human heads because of his pocket, remember, because of his pocket, Jeremic and Djilas, with the support of Boško Ljotic and his, they will risk challenging the conflict and may even plan some Mayan in the Republic Square, etc. You, as Government, Mr. Minister, should prevent them from doing so and that is another saying of philosophers, should beat them in time without the use of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52846	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52847	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I will, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, not wanting and without the intention of moving away from the agenda point, or on the proposals we are discussing today, once again commend one of your extraordinary efforts which is clearly on the way of the final result, very positive, and these are yesterday's proposals of the health law, with extremely well-placed problems and extremely good solutions, to solve these problems. That's why every praise for one such effort. As far as these proposals are concerned today, the position of the SPS parliamentary group is unequivocally clear, these proposals should be accepted. It should be accepted in Serbia's interest, in the interests of Serbian citizens and accepted for the sake of the common good. Why am I saying this for the sake of general good, especially when it comes to the second item of the agenda concerning an agreement with Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime? Crime is an anomaly that is of general character and not only affects Lithuanians, Serbs or I don't know who else, it unfortunately represents a monster for the building of these planets, for the inhabitants who live on the planet. If we don't pay attention to this, then we have created a problem for all of us, and our participation in the fight against this problem, no matter how small it seems, is essentially very large in view of what evil we are fighting. What is important is to point out when it comes to the first proposal to confirm an act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Dear ministers, a parliamentary group and we Socialists agree fully with you, Serbia should be a member of this bank. It is a general obligation to the citizens of Serbia and again something that is in favour of the citizens of Serbia so that those of what we are doing and what we are about to adopt will certainly get at least something that can be called good. What's good? It's a good thing it's on, I'm not going to say at the head of this bank, but in any case someone who has a significant role in establishing and functioning this bank, a state with which we have extremely successful co-operation thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, which is China. Given that China is in the economic strength of another country in the world with a serious perspective of being the first economically most powerful country of the planet, is it necessary to comment on the importance of this type of co-operation that is intensified from month to month, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia pays great attention to the development of all types of relations, not just economic and economic, but also to others, in every field of life and operation, or the work of an ordinary citizen. If so, and it is, then it should be reminded of something very important, which is that we already have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia indigenous or authentic enterprises of the Chinese state, which are doing very delicate jobs here that involve construction procedures of an extremely high degree of complexity with great success. I will mention only one of the companies, i.e. China's companies, a company called "Constraksn Communication", which has 120,000 employees who have managed to perform the most complex procedures, construction procedures, bridges, railways, roads and so on. The chairman of Arsic and how well he knows what we saw in China when we visited this company as a delegation of the Republika Srpska Assembly. They are familiar with the exceptional results in the work of the company, in the operation, or in the performance of the company. The same enterprise in Serbia's territory is the only actor, the only contractor of works on building a railway line that will connect Belgrade and Budapest and that railways according to the state-of-the-art construction standards that exist today, where trains will traffic significantly more at the same speed than it is now, not to say, more than modestly. Given only that one example, I say only one, and there are countless of them, our obligation to be members of this particular bank, namely the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, is an obligation that should at any moment have some kind of priority. In this way, there is no threat to anything that involves a Euro-integrating direction that leads to economic policy and policies in general by the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia. We won't lose anything on that Euro-integrated path. On the contrary, this bank even appears as an alternative to the World Bank and the IMF, but this does not mean that we give up co-operation with either the World Bank and the IMF. Why? So because the largest volume of trade in goods and money exists with the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, I also say regrettably, it is not to the extent to which it should be with Russia, China and the countries of the Eurasian area, but while it is so, and that is inevitability, then it is logical to affirm this kind of integration, because of this we get benefits and loans, however anyone appreciates them, whether they are favourable or unfavourable, loans that have made it possible for both the economy and the economy and the economy and a lot of things in Serbia's general life. I will just point out one example: how many World Bank, USAID, as well as other organisations have helped with certain problems and address these problems in the judiciary, how much our courts have received through various types of investment, both in terms of technical equipment and in terms of professional education. So, in this way, we are in no way jeopardising the Eurointegration that Serbia is seeking, but on the other hand, we are approaching those that are likely to get closer and closer. That's what me and my colleagues agree with you completely. It is not sitting on two chairs, we have no reason to sit on two chairs and we have no reason to be at all service to either side, either, but we have reason and need and obligation to affirm, because of the citizens of Serbia, everything that connects us in economic, economic and other terms, in order to make our citizens feel better, which is – both west and east. And we will certainly not give up on that and neither will the government of the Republic of Serbia nor the president of Serbia. What you have stated as something that I find very good is that our path to membership of this Asian bank, I could say, is a safe path and that our membership in this regard will not be doubted, nor should it be brought into doubt. In this way we will only allow that in this country, which we all love equally, I hope, all have good, and as much love as we dedicate to Serbia, that this love be returned to us at the same time by a better standard, a better life and all that will later remain with our generations. This is not pathetic or emotional, this is true. Therefore, membership in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank should be our priority, to get favourable loans from this bank, to connect with the funds of this bank as closely as possible, because this bank undoubtedly has space, and especially great financial power to help its members. If we are one of those members, that help and support can mean a lot to us. As far as the second agreement is concerned, I have already given some passage in the opening part and made a few sentences that require co-operation with Lithuania. Dear Ministers, it is true that in a certain period of time, Lithuania did not have a compatible policy with Serbia's policy during a certain period of time, that we were thinking, that Serbian citizens suffered evil, terror, crime, and that's true. It is true that in 1999 Serbia and its citizens were exposed to crime. It is true that unfortunately no one was responsible for this crime, it is true that international law is not marginalized but has been trampled because, contrary to all international and legal norms, I have said crime, and now I can say much worse than that. Unfortunately, no court, no hashish, no other who would prosecute those who gave the order for the execution of this crime, or those who were executioners, or those who committed the crime. In spite of all this, however, Serbia as a proud and dignified state, which is its citizens, has the obligation to connect with all those with whom it is committed to connect to prevent crimes, so that crimes do not happen again, in order to counter crime. She is right to co-work with Radeta when she says that one of the forms of crime that implies the highest degree of social danger is corruption, but it is also with a huge degree of social danger and other forms of crime, and these are other types of organised crime, such as terrorism, such as endangering the integrity of the state, any state, and we are taking care of our country, of our Serbia. That's why it's necessary to connect, it's necessary to exchange information, it's necessary to get data, all data relating to potential security risks, all data relating to potential security risks that are direct and that threaten all humanity, over-terrorism, which unfortunately becomes an epidemic, an epidemic on the planet. Serbian citizens experience trauma daily through the media by hearing that somewhere in America, somewhere in Saudi Arabia, in another country, dozens of citizens are killed because of terrorist acts, which are made up of fools, which are caused by hate, which because of some of their ideals, which can't be ideals, because the ideal means something good, not evil, are doing the greatest evil, which is murder, or taking a life. It is precisely because of these monsters, precisely because of these problems, which are not small, that Serbia must have a connection with all those of whom it can get data, and that the data it has, that the exchange of information, in order to prevent it, must prevent all those misdemeanors that become a major danger on a daily basis. Therefore, both Lithuania, as a country of the European Union, must be both a talker and a contractor and a partner. Even those who sowed evil in Serbia's territory and in 1999 are now asking for information from us now, because they, like us, are under the pressure of terrorism and every form of crime. So we're a significant factor in all this, and we're someone who participates together with all of them in the fight against crime. Therefore, this agreement, no matter how many technical deficiencies there are, and how many technical shortcomings have arisen as a problem when it comes to its adoption, has to be a legal basis, it has to be a legal basis for this co-operation to be intensified, normised and as effective as possible, because all of this is solely in one goal, and that is that we have the greatest degree of efficiency in the fight against crime. Therefore, Your Honor, I do not think there is any valid and reasoned reason for anyone to be against these agreements, and I think all MPs who vote in the day to vote in this agreement will support it. We SPS MPs are giving unreserved support in this direction and to you as a promoter and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the State in order to prevent crime. Our diplomatic struggle in that direction has yielded great results. I must, without intending to point out in a service way, highlight our foreign minister Ivica Dacic's significant role in protecting Serbia's interest, when it comes to calling off Kosovo's recognition as a formal legal act, when it comes to improving Serbia's position in the European Union, although the European Union does not look favorably at Kosovo, when unfortunately we are discriminated against in many things, but our diplomacy, unlike the previous period, gives good results and in this direction we are confident that it will continue, in the same way and better than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52848	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, as a representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52849	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, today we really have a chance to discuss a single act that, I think, years ago and before 2012, no one could even dream of being found as the subject of a general debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Exactly, what we had the opportunity to hear about in the previous debate is, if you are leading the state in one extremely responsible way, by establishing good political relations both with the East and with the West, by not putting on any side but to the sole interest of the state of Serbia, your country, your citizens, then you can have results as well as the President of Serbia Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia today, and as one of these results is exactly today's topic, that is, when we are talking about the Act, which we are about to adopt here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the starting point of co-operation with the newly formed Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which was normally created on the initiative of the People's Republic of China in 2015. And as you can see, it began with its work in 2016, and you thought at that moment, probably, that this second block is east, which has been created economically that it will be just one bank of development China, India, Russia, as you see shortly after, and its work has joined a total of 93 countries, meaning, and developed EU countries, such as Germany, such as France, such as Great Britain, such as Spain, so that this story when someone from the West conditioned you co-operate with us if you can't work with the east, it doesn't stand. Because they all like to work with both China and India, and Russia, when it comes to economics, and when it comes to political interests, that's where everyone looks at themselves. Serbia, of course, has seen its own interest in the past years and has been in great pains, but has managed to maintain correct political relations with both the East and the West, and I think that all officials of the East and the West recognise Alexander Vukic. And that's why we have this kind of offer today, which is that based on the letter sent by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Brnabic, we get the answer that we can be members of such a bank and, based on that membership, we withdraw certain credit lines when it comes to infrastructure. I will remind you that in September 2018, delegations at the highest level of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the president of the state, signed a large capital package for the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the People's Republic of China, worth three billion dollars. So, don't forget that there was a RTB Bor with 7.4 billion, that there was practically an opening of a large "Shan-dong Ling-long" factory, which refers to a billion dollars, which represents a tire factory, but as you can see, it's not by any chance why we're talking about "Folksfagen" today, because that factory has already signed contracts by 2021 with "Folksfagen" on delivery and with Reno. Therefore, these factories are already actively working with the EU's largest companies, so when you sign this investment package in your country with one of the largest Asian giants, as they call them, when we talk about the People's Republic of China, then it is quite clear why you can talk to the most developed factories, EU companies tomorrow. So what we're making here today is that Serbia will be one of the members, one of the 93 states, and now 94 countries, which are the founders of this Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, that it will be a full member, that when we issue such an act here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is our obligation to pay 200 thousand dollars, as the first tranche of five years in the next and thus obtain the right to withdraw certain credit lines with good infrastructure projects, which will be even better than the World Bank and IMF credit lines. That doesn't mean that we gave up, or co-operation with the World Bank, or co-operation with the IMF, but it means one competition, the possibility of co-operation when it comes to large investment banks, tells us that we have provided ourselves with the competition of credit offers, and that means that we can and can have the right to choose, to work with one bank, again different projects with another bank, to provide ourselves with the possibility. That's exactly what Mr. Vukic is trying to talk to Serbian citizens about today, when he goes to say what the future is. That these are new jobs, that these are factories that depend on Serbia's overall economy, but also depends on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will make it easier for us to single out new hospitals, for new schools, for new cultural centres, to raise salaries and pensions, which will provide a better standard for citizens. That is why I really agree with the previous speaker, my colleague Jovanovic, when he talks about how such a proposal should not be shared by political parties at all, or by the position, or by the opposition, but rather by supporting it. It is precisely one of these reasons, when we speak of who are members and founders of the board of this investment bank, to say that these are the most developed countries of the EU, that they are members of both the East and the West, and that therefore there is a reason that all parliamentary groups and all MPs participating in the work should support this proposal. What needs to be pointed out is that what is the most important investment, when we talk about Serbia and China, and we must not forget, is the impression only at the beginning of the realization, because you will result in this high economic growth, over four or five percent, in two or three years, because we are only being followed by large contracts with Icarbus, worth $2.6 million, then worth building an industrial park at 300 hectares in Borca, as one of the main projects, where Serbia simply sees the People's Republic of China as a port for Chinese investments. As you can see, these investments include developed European countries and Serbia will be practical, it should be a hub for investment in the Balkans. That's why it's going to be one of the countries that's supposed to have the biggest growth. What we have a chance to see today, that such a concept, such a plan and programme, want to destroy those who do not trust citizens. They simply support individuals like Djilas, Obradovic, such as Jeremic, who, in a voluntary way, come to certain financial resources, those who today are convicted by the same West and simply go to prison for three years minimum, which are financed by black some funds, are trying to tear down the state of Serbia, explaining to Serbian citizens how legitimate it is, that in a violent way, you enter institutions, contrary to the will of the citizens, who rated them very well with 2, 3, 4%, and even some can't even cross the censorship, as you can see. They are aware that they do not have the support of citizens, they are aware that they cannot go to elections and therefore want certain scenarios that we have already seen here in the region and in the world, to come to power by force. Such a thing Serbia will not allow and will therefore ask the citizens of Serbia for support that both this government and the president of the state come out with the platform, the proposal to move on, so let the citizens identify themselves. If they want elections, they'll have choices. They will be able to simply determine whether they want a future or want a past, or whether they want some scenarios like they saw until 2012, that they have no place to work, no salaries, no future for their children, or that they will see something that is truly a feature of all the developed countries that Serbia is seeking. Is it easy that way into the future? Of course not, but every day, step by step, you achieve certain results and these today's acts are an integral part of these results, and therefore this proposal should indeed be supported by all parliamentary groups. In voting day, the SNS will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52850	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We move on to the debate after the application of the People's MPs for the word. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first express my regret that there are no ministers present at this session today under whose resolutes these acts. Everything is fine, Mr. Loncar, as a representative of the government, since the motion is government, but it still shows the attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Assembly. Ministers in the government should be most important to explain the draft laws in the Assembly, to come to the Assembly, to listen to criticism from MPs, and this had to be the most obstacles, not other obligations. What does other obligations mean? The first agreement with the Republic of Lithuania, I say, is regretting that Minister Stefanovic is not here today, because I am interested in what are the benefits of this agreement? Why is it necessary for us to have an agreement with Lithuania now? Did we develop some collaboration in the past, so now we're promoting, is that important to us? As you have heard, one of the countries, which have an absolutely anti-Serbian stance across the EU, which have recognised Kosovo's independence amongst the first, and called for it to be the key to the success of the Western Balkans region, therefore, the independence of the false state of Kosovo and now we are with them signing the agreement and here we hear that this is the way to the future and that this is the course of our investment and development for the better tomorrow in the EU, absolutely unnecessary. First of all, I guess we co-operate with all EU countries on internal affairs within Interpol. Why is it particularly important that we work together now with the Republic of Lithuania on a bilateral basis? I don't see that reason. There are a lot of more pressing things about the M.O.P. that we don't deal with and we don't discuss, but that's why we have these irrelevant things on the agenda. So someone who has an open anti-Serbian stance, who works against the interest of the Serbian state, and we here to listen to praises on their account and to pretend that this will help our European integration path. I have to say one thing, that Lithuania isn't so bad. There is something they do, which is absolutely for the benefit of our national interests, they are always the first to block chapters in negotiations with the EU. Always they, the Lithuanians and the Dutch, always the first to block the negotiations. Here, ask Tanja Miscevic, and require Serbia to bring foreign policy into line with EU policy i.e. The sanctions to Russia. It's their basic request, and we're talking about friendship and improving relationships and agreements here. That's our cooperation. In the past few years, we have signed several agreements with the NATO Pact, which are SOFA, IPAP and the NSP Agreement that have given rights to soldiers and servants who are in NATO's service of the pact here, which were not foreseen for the Third Reich soldiers under the Agreement, i.e. It's a triple pact. So that's what we've allowed NATO soldiers in Serbia's territory. No customs payments, free passage, diplomatic status, etc. It was all express, we adopted, and there was talk that the former government was responsible for it. We already have, at least we Serbian radicals, been talking about it for three years now, the situation that we cannot assign diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis. The State Department. We have repeatedly asked these questions in the Serbian Parliament and we have received answers where the ministries transfer jurisdiction to each other and everyone somehow wants to get rid of it. Does that matter to us? Is that more important to us or is it an agreement with Lithuania? Will the Lithuanians come here to put out fires or to save people from the flood, God forbid, if that happens to us again. Will NATO soldiers do so under the SOFA Agreement? I don't think so. On the other hand, we have one moral obligation because the Russian Federation is our greatest foreign policy protector, especially in the Security Council, especially as regards KIM, and you could see when the entire Western world, including the EU, the United States and all others, wanted a resolution declaring Serbs a genocide nation and all those lies involved, including child rape, more than 200,000 rapes in the war in BiH, the Russians prevented it. We can't give them diplomatic status, people saved by our fellow citizens at the time of the flood in Obrenovac and every time we need help. But that's why we're improving co-operation with Lithuania, so thank God, now it's going to be on one truly great level, so maybe something's going to change, maybe the Lithuanians will protect us next time they want to declare us a genocide nation. So, an absolute agreement that needs to be rejected. That's why I'm sorry the minister isn't here, because I'm also interested in the urgency of adopting this agreement, and I'm also interested in what about the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre? We have suggested that such a centre be formed and in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, we have collected more than 30,000 signatures of Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and the province's assembly has refused to put it on the agenda, a assembly in which the progressors have a majority. As for the second agreement, that is, the establishment of an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, I cannot help but notice that every time the president of Serbia talks about how Serbs slept through the fall of the Berlin Wall, how they slept through the breakdown of Communism, they lived in some illusions, it's time for reality, it's time for the 21st century etc. What we have always welcomed is co-operation with the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, the BRIKS countries and all the rest of the world who want to co-operate with Serbia, and these are many, without any political conditioning, and this is not so on the other hand. You know, when the EU first seduced the sanctions of the Russian Federation, Minister of Trade Rasim LJajic said it is now our chance to increase the export of agricultural products to Russia, to take advantage of what has space on the market, as Europe no longer exports there. On the same day, Michael Davenport, the EU's representative in Serbia at the time, delivered to the Ministry of Trade a diplomatic note called Ed-memoir, which said Serbia should not take advantage of such a situation, to increase its exports, but rather to follow EU policy. That's what we did. So we did something absolutely against Serbian interests, just because someone asked us to do it from the EU. That's the situation with these big world banks. You know, every time we are in the process of Eurointegration, we will have to choose as a priority the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other banks under the auspices of the EU. I think it should demonstrate the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. You, Minister, have repeated several times that we now have our own chair, we only care about Serbian interest, not foreign capital. And Vucic is saying that Serbia is now respected in the world, etc. If Serbia is respected in the world, please, let's see where our national interest is, who we can work with, whether we should work with banks that are on other sides of the world, which are developing, which have a serious momentum and much greater potential and much better conditions for it. Co-operation with the People's Republic of China is worth a lot of money. First of all, we Serbian radicals warned about what would happen if "Esmark" U.S. came to "The Iron" Smederevo. We reminded us of what happened to "U.S. Steel," as they returned "The Iron", when they melted everything, all the profits were made from Serbia for 1 dollar, what a disastrous contract it was and hesitated then by the government of Aleksandar Vukic to sign it and it was rejected. Here's what happens now that the Chinese are here. When the People's Republic of China invests, they don't look, as investors from the West, to just take our subsidies, short-term profits, as quickly as possible, but to stay in that space for the next 20, 30, 50 or more years. That's why it's worth it to us, without any special preferences to anyone. It's just pure logic. Also, Serbia is part of a major one project, perhaps the largest project in the world, called "The Belt and the Way", i.e. ‘New Silk Road’. So these projects make up highways, railways, other infrastructures, energy infrastructures, etc. We need to make the most of it, and we need to take matters into our own hands once already when it comes to investment, and not as it is the principle of the ministry to go through companies from America or the EU, unorthodoxly and without a tender, infrequently with large bids that are 100% higher than other offers in a row. So it's very simple. The Republic of Serbia should develop co-operation with other friendly countries as well. You now have a question of Turkish flow. We need to do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen to us like it did with the southern flow, because the countries through which the southern flow should go are covered by political pressures. I guess our energy security is more important than Serbia's path to the EU that can last for decades. Why did I say that Alexander Vukic often says that we slept through the fall of the Berlin Wall and the breakdown of communism? Because Alexander Vukic and the entire Serbian Progressive Party are now at risk of sleeping through the EU's disintegration. The European Union is not an organisation of the 1990s, the European Union is on the set. The EU is a member of the EU for the first time. For the first time, they refuse to be members, such as Iceland, a country that is much smaller than us, twenty times smaller per capita, and we crash, we think agreements with Lithuania will help us and tap our shoulders. It's not gonna happen. So, in the area of economics, you look only at your own national interest, which is to be managed, not at political pressures.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52852	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52853	Once again, only on behalf of Minister Stefanovic and Sinisha Maloko, this was scheduled to be Friday and they planned the commitments, to be tomorrow, but there was a change. It happened today, and they're not physically in Belgrade. The only reason they're not here to defend these things we're talking about. I'll just say once, I think there's enough concrete reason. I said it was because of our citizens and this has nothing to do with politics or anything. When it comes to important things, when you have a deal like this, it's much faster to get in direct contact with extremely important information, to exchange that information, not to go through Interpol, through central and other things. This is one of the most important reasons the state of Serbia has ever managed. In today's day, social networks and all those things that happen, and terrorism and serious crime, time plays a serious role. That's one of the most important reasons. The other thing is, it's not about any friendship. It is about protecting the citizens of Serbia and what could be prevented from the information they receive and exchanged. As for the ceasefire you mentioned, of course no one expects the fire to be put out by people from Lithuania or anything. The state of Serbia has concluded an agreement with the Russian Federation specifically on fire-extinguishing, which has been ratified and which has been done and which exists and is in force. So, again, the state of Serbia has concluded an agreement with the Russian Federation on the basis of which we operate and on which we work. The second thing was never better co-operation with Russia and China than now, and this co-operation is getting better and better every day, i.e. giving better and better results. That's the facts. We want to co-operate with everyone who wants to give the best possible conditions for Serbia to move forward. Here you have if this Chinese corporation gives better conditions than the World Bank and the Monetary Fund, which is their competition, so of course Serbia will take those terms. That's why we joined here. Therefore, the conclusion is that our interest is only Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, what they will do. As far as the pipeline is concerned, that there is no dilemma with the citizens, we have already met all the conditions required of Serbia and that it depends on Serbia, and has passed the government and gone through everything, to do the pipeline. Let me tell you one thing, there's not one thing today that didn't go through both the government and everything that we had to do to make it work, that it doesn't go when it comes to that part that there's no standing. You can check that out already today, there's no basis, but we're in this whole story a little player who can't make important decisions, but he can respect what's asked of him. We're absolutely up for it. It's for our one safety. There's a constant increase in gas demand, and that's what we need and we're doing and we're doing everything we can to make it happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52854	Right on the line, MP Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52855	Mr. Minister, you can't be a government minister and say international contracts have nothing to do with politics. It's just politics and nothing else. That says a lot about the definition of Serbia. You know, co-operation with Russia is one level, but it's only declarative. What we have done, beware of the act of giving diplomatic status to people who saved our people at the time of the worst accidents, and it must not be done not because we will not or there are some barriers, only because it does not allow the EU. It's not the same as the ceasefire deal. We have an agreement in the Partnership for Peace, and we still have a dozen agreements with the NATO Pact. So this shows the foreign-political definition, the intensity of our country in international relations. You know, in order for this to come faster, we now have the direct line of Lithuania and Serbia, in order to exchange information faster, so it's not the Middle Ages. At the time of information technologies, we now need an agreement to quickly exchange information. How fast is that? How long would it be without that? Would we now have a period of two weeks until one piece of information came from Lithuania to Serbia? That's, I mean, stories for little kids. Thus, the pipeline is being disputed by the EU. You saw when it comes to EU energy security with the North during the course of two, there are no problems, and when it comes to Serbia and the Balkans' energy stability, then we co-operate with Russia, we should join foreign policy sanctions. I call on the Serbian government to resist these pressures. Don't get me wrong, I think it's good for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52856	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52857	I just want to assure you that Serbia will do everything that is in Serbia's interest, and I will remind you one thing that they share the EU and that there has been pressure for Serbia to impose sanctions on Russia. Serbia has never imposed sanctions on Russia, nor will it introduce them. To know, that's just facts. Now, I've checked it out. As far as these exchanges of information are concerned. This agreement may, officers with this agreement, our officers may directly exchange information, receive without skipping Interpol, Interpol Central, to send requests, and then select what they will give you, what they will not give. Here's what the people who are expert on it say. I'm not really professional. This allows an officer with an officer to exchange vital information that is important to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52858	Ljiljana Malušić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52859	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today I will respond to an act on the establishment of an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and on the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Co-operation in the fight against crime. First of all, it should be said that the Republic of Serbia is a country of EU accession and that we will never give up on this, for the simple reason that we and the EU have 70% trade, which is very important. Secondly, if we cooperate, and we co-operate with the BRIKS countries, thank God. It is much more expensive to export to India what we export to Germany, etc. To get back to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. It is very good that, on NRC's proposal, this bank came to life in 2016. The proposal goes from 2015 to 2015 and, of course, capital or investment in that bank has the highest percentage of the NKK, then India and Russia, and then the bank is originally conceived as a regional bank dealing with the infrastructure of Asia and its development. However, out of 37 countries that were then included in this bank, the number of countries, highly developed countries, 20 countries have joined this bank and are mostly the most developed. It is Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy and Spain, to increase that number to 93 countries in the coming years, which is very good. Why is it good? Because capital is $100 billion. The Republic of Serbia has a vision and a president who is very respectable in the world because, thanks to him, the NKK has invested an enormous amount of money so far and will still invest. These days it is due to arrive for RTB Bor billion and 300m euros for full revitalisation. Then we'll open up an industrial zone in Borca, or an industrial park that's going to be about 10 billion. We'll hire 5,000 people, maybe more. There's a very fast factory opening in Zrenjanin. 800m euros were invested. So, never in history has the relationship between the NRC been better thanks to our president, Alexander Vukic and their president, Si Jinping. It's very good that we can work with whoever we want and whatever we want. Once we couldn't, now we can just thanks to the respectability of the country that led to that level, Mr. Alexander Vukic. We sent a letter of intent and that letter of intent was approved, we received an official approach in December of this year to be able to approach, but there are conditions, which is that at a five-year level we should allocate $200,000 because it is necessary to pay a million euros into that bank. It's a good thing we're going to go in because we're going to get extremely good loans and we need to see what all the funds are so that we can join that by the year 2000, we'll definitely get out of that grey country that this DS government and the rest of the opposition put us in, which is now continuing to collapse violently, and we know that in the elections they got 2-3%. It's a shame, they're very ugly, they're very ugly. They're trying to make a coup, which is inadmissible. If they want elections, we're all here for elections, we'll have elections, they'll all get together again maybe five, six, seven, eight percent, we'll rule as long as we want. Do you know why? Just because our president and the complete government, you sirs doing a great job, are working for this Serbia. What else to say is that he's at the top of this bank, the president who's elected by the Board of Governors. The Board of Governors, every country that enters this bank, gives its governor, which is very good, because in this way it has insight into the total capital of the bank, under the hierarchy goes a board of directors who have 12 directors who deal with the business of the complete bank. What is most important is that we, in a few years, will be one, I think we are already a centre in the Balkans, and it is not an accident that the Chinese Bank is investing here and not only Chinese, but also other banks. I personally like that we have an alternative, we don't just have the World Bank, we don't just have the IMF, now we're going to have this bank that's going to give us, I'm sure, much more favourable loans than we've ever had before. I will say just a few more words about this Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime. I always do, because it's very important that we have extremely good bilateral relations with all countries. If we don't, we should try to make them. First there's this deal, and then we'll do other agreements, so we'll probably have some good trade one day, and most importantly, it's about crime, terrorism. We'll have a flow of information, so it'll partially stop terrorism. Perhaps the flow of information will come to Serbia that we will have, we will know where the drug routes are going. Maybe some will end up right in Serbia, we'll have information to prevent it, I'm sure. And not only that, there's an illicit arms trade, or the sale of human organs, who knows everything, because crime is a cancer of society and I'm always about to cut it off. With pleasure in voting day, I will support all the proposals of these laws that we are already discussing today and yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52860	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will start with this recent finding by Minister Loncar, who said Serbia did not, and will never impose sanctions on the Russian Federation. Now, that sounds good to us radicals, and I'm sure most of the citizens of Serbia, but you, Mr. Loncar, have one problem, and that's the problem that's contradictory, proclaimed and the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that unfortunate road to the EU. EU membership implies a common foreign policy. The EU's foreign policy is determined by leading countries, neither by Bulgaria nor Romania nor by Serbia tomorrow, if it ever joins the EU. Official EU policy is sanctions for the Russian Federation. And there's proof that you're really trying to sit on two chairs, even though you're a little bit of the same declarative and demagogue, I'm free to say, talking about how you're sitting on a Serbian chair. If you were sitting in a Serbian chair, you would take care of the interests of the Serb people and you would have broken up with this colorful lie called the EU. You're trying to balance, but you're doing it inexorably, because in addition to some statements that you're talking about co-operation with the Euro-Asian Union, Russia, India, China, where our interest is obvious, you are constantly meeting EU requirements. The European Union bombed us, the EU's leading countries bombed us, the NATO Pact bombed us, and you persistently, and your government, you run into their arms, you're serviced, you meet the conditions and you do damage to all Serbian citizens. And that's the problem. The sooner we let go of this delusion, the sooner we open our eyes to the facts and move towards fulfilling our national interests, the sooner we'll live better. We're discussing a few points today. You, of course, have nothing to do with this united debate as a health minister. Your explanation is – ministers planned their time differently. This shows that you do not respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the National Assembly cannot adapt to the ministers it has chosen, unfortunately, but are the ministers who are to sit in the hallway, waiting for the point for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be designated as representatives of the motion to come in and then answer the questions of the MPs and to suffer that barbaric fire, politically speaking, of course. That's what it looks like in normal and orderly states that understand what democracy means. And here, it is most normal for you to say – the Assembly did not fit in with the minister's schedule. We had a Minister of Agriculture last week who talked about laws that had nothing to do with him, before anyone else did. So it became a rule that ministers do not talk about the bill's proposals from their portfolio. And it's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52862	Comrade Sarovic, let's talk about the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52863	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52864	A little bit about the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52865	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I really appreciate what you're saying. Let's move on, one point at a time. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Lithuania, signed on 16 April 2013, six years ago. You've given one here, I'd say, a completely unorthodox explanation. You say – it was necessary to complete the text. It's, like you said, one word. So where it was -- the exchange of information -- now stands -- the exchange of confidential information. Six years is your government, and to governments before you, but there is a continuity of the regime, six years it took you to add one, one word. And you're telling us today that it's necessary to get information faster. One word for six years you've been trading and adding. And then you're talking about the importance of some kind of tight throat, because, my God, if the information goes through the Intropol, it goes through the central. Well, you don't send that, I don't know, horseback, and all the information has to go through Interpol headquarters. It doesn't work that way. So each state has its own Interpol branch unit, so information is exchanged. Well, here is simply not the point, but the point is to show how you really take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, if you claim this is an interest, then the interest was not to bring a single word into line for six years. Lithuania is not a friendly country towards the Republic of Serbia. They do not recognize our sovereignty and territorial integrity. Is there a worse crime in international relations? What is it worse that they can do to us than not recognise the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? What's that worse we could do? There's no worse crime in international relations than to betray a country. They do not recognise us and you are developing co-operation with them, pretend there was nothing, and then at the same time you talk about fighting for the preservation of Kosovo within Serbia's borders and swear on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that you will defend and protect it. Now, that, Mr. Lonchar, is not really going with each other. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that proposals can be discussed together if they are conditional on one another, so would I ask you, Mr Loncar, to answer that this Agreement on Co-operation in the fight against crime between Serbia and Lithuania is related to the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? In fact, Vladimir Petkovic is changed to the Committee on Environmental Protection and is named Maja Gojkovic. Now, what kind of repercussion would we be if we didn't accidentally adopt this proposal, and we would adopt an agreement with Lithuania or vice versa? Could that be without each other? Could that have taken six years of harmony? Maybe they were looking for a replacement for that board member. Maybe it was a condition. Maybe it's stuck here, so we're finally, like the government, you decided on that step. What's this about? It is quite clear, of course, that there is no point at all, but that this is simply nonsense and shows how you create the agenda and the points to be discussed. Now you needed to show the public that it was something to do, so you scheduled those two points to give Chanko some artificial breathing and get him back into political life, and then you said, let's just say that what was previously a proposal to have a single debate on all points, you divided into two debates, so that we had two weeks to talk here a little bit, and to distract the public that it was something very important for the citizens. Most of it isn't. You, Mr. Loncar, yesterday by explaining the law in which you truly understand, which should be welcomed, said that you gave Sergei Trifunovic and his foundation 250,000 euros for reasons...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52866	Comrade Sarovic, please, on the agenda topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52867	Exactly on the subject, Mr. Arsic. I appreciate your vigilance. Here, the minister can't wait to answer me. Therefore, allow the discussion to be conducted uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52868	Well, I know, but you, colleague Sarovic, I suppose you know the definition of corruption, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52869	Mr. Arsic, I'm talking about corruption right now. Don't attack your minister. Let me do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52870	What does Sergei Trifunovic have to do with Lithuania?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52871	I believe I'm more subdued politically to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52872	Well, you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52873	So, the minister's answer was that he gave 250,000 euros for the reason that at that time Sergei Trifunovic was in public as some folk hero. I think I've repeated it from word to word, like a folk hero. Now, that raises the question, Mr. Lonchart, the system of decision-making at the Ministry of Health. One day he's on Twitter asking for money, and then the President of the Republic gives him money, he says -- there'll be money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52874	Comrade Sarovic, please, before you continue the discussion, I ask you to tell me what law you're talking about. Nemanja Sarovic: Here, listen. No, no, I won't listen. I have asked you a question. What is your law? If you forgot to say something yesterday, it was yesterday. So, right now we are talking about the following laws, because it seems to me that you also need a calendar, not only the laws: a bill on the confirmation of the Act on the establishment of an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, a bill on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime, a proposal for a decision amending decisions on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee members and a proposal for a decision to elect a President of the Securities Commission. In none of these laws, the time of your ten-minute discussion, I failed to find a common denominator with Sergei Trifunovic. Ask for a word again, but please speak of the laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52875	Here, Minister Lonchar, unfortunately, understood that. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52876	When Mr. Loncar heads the National Assembly, you can see that, and now the MPs are doing so, so please continue to discuss the points of the agenda that are under discussion today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52877	If, Mr. Arsic, you'd let me say more than three words then you'd understand what I'm talking about and you'd realize that it's really connected to this point of the agenda. You, when it comes to the agenda, are very broadly interpreting certain things, so I will take the opportunity to ask Mr. Loncar – how is the proposal for a decision on the selection of the President of the Securities Commission linked to the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52878	You can't ask Mr. Lonchar that, you haven't learned the Rules of Procedure at all. I think that's what my colleague Martinovic suggested. He's the one you have to ask, you can't ask the minister. It's the National Assembly's decision, not the government or the minister. And you say you graduated from law school. You really surprise me, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52879	Mr. Arsic, thank you for the sixth time, I think if I counted correctly, turn off the microphone... (President: three times. If you think, Mr. Arsic, that there's a need to discuss what I finished law school, I did, I finished it in time, I finished law school. So, I didn't buy a degree, I didn't finish it when I was 40, I didn't finish some dubious colleges. If that's what you want to discuss, we can discuss it, but I'm afraid most of the ones we're talking about are right on the side that you represent. My question to the minister is legitimate. As part of this debate, I can take the minister to his will and ask him what I'm interested in. You can't decide what the MP can ask and what... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52880	Col. Sarovic, as an experienced lawyer, Article 106. The Rules of Procedure say - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So he can't do what he wants, what he thinks. I can interpret both the broad Rules of Procedure and the topics of the agenda, but you really too, I can't say broadly, but you're obviously getting out of the agenda theme too clearly. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52881	So, Mr. Arsic, by reading the names of two points of the agenda we're discussing, I've come out of the agenda too wide, if I understand? I don't know, when you said as an experienced lawyer, did you talk about yourself? Is it possible that you, like Tom Nikolic, might not have completed that college in the old days? If so, let us know officially, and congratulations, why not? Perhaps you too will sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia in the next term. You see there are such frames more than welcome. So, Minister, I hope that you, regardless of these incursions, will understand how much more noble the debate is if the chairman allows it to take place normally, especially when there are no hard words. You can see that I'm really talking to you with a smile. There's nothing there. There's no bitterness, and I didn't bring a chainsaw. If I did, maybe we'd be allowed to talk about it, seeing as the saw is one of the topics of the agenda. There's a lot of talk about it from your ranks. I just can't find who it is. As for this point, which is very interesting for us, and this is the bill to confirm the act establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, it is another indicator of how much you, as a Government, have double standards and how many citizens of Serbia say completely different things. On the one hand, we have heard praises today about how it is in the citizens' interest to be members of this bank, how well it is to participate in Euro-Asian integration. However, when we Serbian radicals have been saying this for the past 20 years, 20 and more, then many of you are baffled here, and they say, there is no Serbia's life without the EU, there is no different, there is no Serbia's life without the IMF, and this point of the agenda today is an indication that you are not truthful in this, an indication that you have deceived citizens of Serbia, an indication that you can live without EU membership and that progress and economics, and economic, and cultural, and national, and every other Serbian people and Serbia as a country of origin is in no way dependent on EU membership, because that is how we would be doomed. We heard a little while, says one of your MPs, so why would we export to Asia when it's cheaper to export here where it's closer? Then why Germany... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52882	I'm sorry, colleague Sarovic. I was warning you to use your resources wisely, which is called time, and I kept bringing you back to the agenda and just when you came to the agenda, you spent the rest of your MP group's time, and not to raise your hand... All right, colleagues, Radeta, you'll get your hands on the Rules of Procedure. No problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52883	It really doesn't make sense, colleague Arsic, what you're trying to say, or what you just said. First, the whole time Nemanja Sarovic was speaking, it was inappropriate for you to interrupt him at any moment, especially as MPs of the congregation's majority were saying anything but... Now I'm putting on a bet whatever you want, ask them what's on the agenda now, to list the exact titles of the dots, we confess everything. That's one thing. The other thing is, how do you allow yourself to tell the MP that you offered him something smart to say? Who are you to judge what's smart, what isn't, colleague Arsic? Please take good care of the Rules of Procedure, take care of dignity. Now you clicked to tell me I didn't tell you by which member I called. Of course, I'll say, that's Article 107. You have been insulting the dignity of the National Assembly all along, and you have exceeded the measure when you say: "I am giving you the opportunity, you tell the Messenger, to say something wise." How do you give the opportunity? That's the first question. Secondly, how can you judge what's smart, what isn't? Neither can the potter, as a doctor, let alone you. So, take care. Please, if you have any problems, some impatience, you mustn't show it that way. We've been having a normal discussion all day, and here we are, the second day this is going on, we're normally communicating with the minister, we're replicating each other, and then you come and spoil the course of the debate. Please don't, it's probably your problem to sit down for two days, you can't go out for coffee, you can't have a cigar, but here I am whenever you want me to come in, I'll take your place, I'm the vice president, and then you can go out for a walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52884	I'd like to speak to my colleague Radet immediately. Since obviously someone here is trying to put words in my mouth that I haven't said and that I'm breaking the rules of conduct in the National Assembly, I can only tell you that the time of the SRS parliamentary group is 28 minutes and five seconds, and that my colleague Sarovic has spoken more than two minutes over that time, just because I was trying... The squirrel of Radeta, she throws it away. You'll have the pleasure of hoping someday, and until then... . Then why do you ask? ) Because I was trying to get my colleague Šarovic back on the agenda, and I included that time. Now, the fact that he wasn't sticking to the agenda wasn't my problem. It was his. The word is made by Minister Lonachr. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, colleague Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. What do you think I want to say? ) Do you want the Assembly to declare in voting day, my colleague Radeta, to apologize?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52885	Mr. Arsic, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly obliges you to conduct meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and it is quite clear, although yesterday you tried to deny it in the previous days, that there is personal animosity and that you are unable to hold a session in the moments when I speak, because you interrupt me for no reason whatsoever, even though you have let all the other MPs talk when there is a free topic on the agenda, about everything and everything, whatever they remember about things that are not on the agenda and about people who are not here and about events that have nothing to do with this. You've interrupted me five or six or who knows how many times, then it's really hard to track how long it's been, because every time you interrupt me, turn off my microphone, it resets. You have no right to do that, Mr. Arsic. If you understood and understood what a good democratic practice is, you would not interrupt the MPs, but rather let me explain what I want in the way I want. There's one saying, you haven't graduated from law school, so I won't mind, which says, "Vox popul, vox deji, voice of the people, voice of God." You're not here to tell God if something is smart or not, and by saying I wasn't smart, you didn't insult me, you're just talking about yourself and showing how much you don't understand, because if you understood you would never let yourself say something like that. They're citizens who appreciate what's good and smart, and here... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52886	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I only acted in accordance with Article 27, applying Article 106. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? Just yes or no, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52887	I want the Assembly to make a statement about it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52888	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52889	Mr. Sarovic, I'm sure as a safe politician, you said why we hadn't made this bank before, but just to take a look, the bank just started working in 2016. We already applied in 2018, did what it takes to join in. So, to say that we favor someone, to favor, I don't know, the World Bank, the IMF... The SRS, they're getting it. I'm in no hurry unless you're in a hurry. Nemanja Sarovic: Arsic is in a hurry. I'm in no hurry, it's an extraordinary pleasure for me to be here, to talk to you, to clear things up and not rush anywhere. So, if I'm right, if I have no right to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52890	Sergei Trifunovic is not the subject today, Mr. Minister, but if he has already asked a question from his colleague, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52891	Therefore, as soon as something that can be more useful, or useful for the citizens of Serbia, appears for the state of Serbia, so that someone can offer us loans, conditions that are better than some others, we have done so. So that's the essence of the story, so much for favoring everything. Milorad Mircic: Stockholders... We are shareholders to come to the opportunity to apply for projects and loans. The SRS, they're getting it. That's a condition, we don't have it yet to be, so it's voiced now to be, but that's a condition for us to benefit from these more favourable... (Milorad Mircic: We are partners. We move on, we understand each other. The second thing, you keep talking about the EU and we do everything the EU says. I remind you again, regarding sanctions for the Russian Federation and everything else, I assure you of only one thing, that we are closely following what is happening in the EU and elsewhere and that we will do what is best for the citizens of Serbia, that it is only important for us and that we will appreciate how someone treats us. Aleksandar Vukic brought Serbia into that position so that it could work like that. Serbia is not in bankruptcy or bankruptcy, they can no longer blackmail it with some unfavourable loans, loans and other things. Aleksandar Vukic brought Serbia to the post for an equal partner and an equal talker. A lot cannot happen in the region without Serbia being involved. That is only because Serbia has had a surplus for three years, which has reduced the number of unemployed, which has a maximum number of investments coming into Serbia. Therefore, once again, just make sure that all of this is well measured, seen, followed the situation and did everything best for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52892	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, the minister just answered your question. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52893	So, Mr. Arsic, you once again show that you run the sessions in double arches. I am the first MP, not just today, but in general, I would say in the past few days, to whom you refused to give the right to a replica, although it was obvious that the minister had responded to me, although it was obvious that the minister had misread my presentation. I asked the minister certain things, he did not answer about sanctions against Russia, whether you will choose sanctions against the Russian Federation or the EU, there is no third, you cannot hide. EU demand and common foreign policy are sanctions for the Russian Federation. You can't say - we're going to the EU, and there's no sanctions. Tell the citizens of Serbia what's true, one or the other. I know the president won't let me discuss it right now, and it's pretty obvious that he's gonna interrupt me again soon, for the 14th time, so I don't know what he's convinced anyone here, and I also think, Minister, that you're not a minor, or you're a mute... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52894	Col. Sarovic, member of 103, regulates the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. You used your right to injure the Rules of Procedure to answer the Minister, so I can only ask you – do you want the Parliament to make a statement on your injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day? Nemanja Sarovic: I want to take two minutes first. I haven't used two minutes. I'm sorry. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52895	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, as we speak today about an agreement between the Government of Serbia and Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime, it is important to mention that crime is a phenomenon which in itself knows neither the nation nor the borders, and it is important that every society and every state do, however much in its capacity, to bring this phenomenon down to a minimum that will be acceptable to everyday life, to the functioning of society and to the smooth functioning of a country. The worst part is if the state with crime starts making compromises and deals, and we have witnessed what has been happening in Serbia over the past decades. It should be recalled that in Serbia at the time, the line between crime and the state itself was very solid, that crime threatened to swallow the country itself. The tycoon and then the authorities, today's opposition, and the consequences of this association are well known, have been seen first and foremost in Serbia's robbery. Remember now that at that time there were various people in Serbia whose name you should not even mention, who were essentially masters of life and death in the Republic of Serbia. They had these people, I say, serious relationships with the DS authorities at the time, and the consequences of these mergers and ties are primarily the poverty of Serbia, the robbery privatisation, the sucking up of state money... Nemanja Sarovic: Theme. ) Here, working on the subject, colleagues, sucking state money through so-called combinations that they then called their joint affairs with the authorities. The fact is also that by 2012 no one in Serbia dared to oppose that phenomenon or those people, but suddenly after that year, those people who were untouchable began to bend in Serbian prisons. Many of those who robbed Serbia found themselves behind prison bars. The action and clash with crime that threatened to swallow the state was led personally by President Aleksandar Vukic, with the help of the SNS. That fight is still going on today. At the same time, we continued to strengthen Serbian police, primarily through the creation of better conditions for the work of police officers, creating somewhat better material conditions, i.e. an increase in the earnings of police officers, as direct carriers and the fight against crime. We see this agreement with the Lithuanian government as part of and continuation of this struggle that began in 2012 and certainly support what the Government's proposal is on today's agenda. However, all of this has one other political side. It is good that the President and the Government are looking for room for co-operation and with those countries that we often disagree with on some politically important issues for us, looking for room for co-operation on all the things we have some common interest in, but at the same time keeping, jealously keeping and strengthening co-operation, here, this is an example of, after all, an agreement with Lithuania, but at the same time preserving and strengthening this co-operation with those countries with which we agree in political terms and important political matters, which is the case with Georgia today, whose delegation we have had the honour to host in this distinguished home. As long as these things go through these flows and in this operational sense, when it comes to the fight against crime, but also in this political one, when it comes to Serbia's co-operation on an international basis with all important factors, the government and the president will have the support of SNS and us SNS MPs, and so will this agreement between the Lithuanian and Serbian governments in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52896	Thank you. The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52897	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when the law provides for an obligation to confirm an international agreement, a proposal such as this is found in front of MPs. It is the draft law on the confirmation of an act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The bank has more than $100 billion in capital and has 93 Member States. In December 2018, membership and Serbia were granted, and this will contribute much faster and better to the development of certain areas in our country. First of all, it should also point to Serbia's willingness to be one of the member states, because we are now ready to meet the conditions that have been put before us and that is commendable. On the other hand, many positive effects are foreseen by the adoption of this law. The Bank will provide financial support to its members through loan approval, co-financing, capital investment, funding from different funds, to encourage infrastructure development, in particular to help less developed members. I would like to remind you that relations between Serbia and China have taken an upward path, resulting in co-operation in the area of the construction of transport infrastructures, energy, agriculture, culture, economy, defence, economy, etc. A few years ago, "Smederevo" had no future, and today it contributes to the stability of Smederev's budget and employs many people. The Chinese HBIS group invested more than 150m euros when it took over Jelizara and retained more than 5,000 workers, and every year a new 200 people are open to employment opportunities. Today production records historical records, and great progress exists in exports. Also, what is relevant is the signing of an agreement between the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the area of high technologies and innovations that are the basis for economic development in the future. Serbia's membership will allow us access to favourable credit funds for the implementation of projects and programmes that are now being implemented in co-operation with Chinese partners. For all I have stated, I believe that this proposal should be supported, which I will do with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52898	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52899	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the issue of economic progress, the issue of peace and stability, the issue of security of the Republic of Serbia, but also of every citizen of our country, the issue of constant progress and development are issues which the SNS has declared in its programme and issues on which the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic works, but also the complete government. What I want first to point out and touch is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Lithuania in the fight against crime. Anyone who has read this agreement, and by reading the proposal for an agreement in item 2 relating to the field of work and the co-operation of competent institutions, and where 14 points are certainly listed, there is absolutely no valid reason why this agreement would not be accepted, especially when it comes to detecting and preventing crimes against terrorism, crimes against life and human health, crimes against child pornography and sexual abuse of children, crimes against financial transactions, crimes against trafficking, etc., I will not further list. Also, this agreement accurately and clearly defines the institutions, i.e. the competent authorities that will be responsible for implementing this agreement, which are in the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Interior within it, the Directorate for Police, the Administration of the Criminal Police, the Customs Police Administration and, of course, the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance. I must point out that so far the Ministry of the Interior has been through bilateral co-operation, but also multilateral co-operation with other police and that it has worked a lot and prevented many crimes from these areas, but of course it has worked to detect these crimes. In this regard, all praises for the work of the ministry so far, and I hope that by adopting this bill, the Ministry of Interior as well as the Customs Administration will work precisely to prevent crime and corruption, and preventing crime and corruption is also its adoption on the zeroth level, is both the definition of both the SNS and the determination of our President Alexander Vukic. When it comes to economic progress and development and how important it is that another IMF and World Bank financial institution appeared on the global world stage after 50 years. Of course, the policy of Alexander Vukic and the policy of the SNS and the policy of our government is the interest of the Serbian state, i.e. the interest of our citizens above all. In this regard, and as important as it is, the government has the possibility of a financial choice when it comes to raising and withdrawing credit. This possibility of a financial election means economic freedom in fact of a single state. In this regard, these governments and responsible policies of Alexander Vukic are also preceded by the adoption of laws on the establishment of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. China is our very important strategic partner thanks to the responsible policy of Alexander Vucic, mentioning the Smederevo Irony, the RTB Bor, the mentioning construction of the Belgrade railway – Budapest, but I will also mention one corridor and one time on Corridor 11, which is the highway to be built from Preljina to Požega and which will also shorten the time of travel for people living in western Serbia. These proposed laws concern Serbia's progress and development, and this SNS has no dilemma, will support them in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52900	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52901	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we are talking in this part of the debate about very important agreements for the Republic of Serbia. We have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm an act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The colleagues talked about it, that's for citizens who may not have followed the transmission to mention once again that this bank was founded in 2015, started working in 2016 on the People's Republic of China initiative based in Beijing. Although originally imagined as a regional financial institution has caused great interest, the UK and Germany, France, Italy and many other countries joined. It currently numbers 93 Member States. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank encourages sustainable economic development by investing in infrastructure and manufacturing sectors. And as an international financial institution, it represents an alternative to the World Bank and the IMF. The Bank will provide financial support to its members in terms of favourable loans through approval, co-financing or participation in direct loans, capital investments, etc. and will, in particular, contribute to the development of less developed members. When we talk about our Chinese friends and their approach to business in general and economics, it is known how successful they are. We in Bor had the honor and pleasure to see for ourselves these facts. As you know, at the end of last year, President Vukic brought in one of the world's top companies "Zidjin" as a strategic partner of RTB Bor. Three months later, the positive results of this partnership are already visible, employees' salaries are increased, equipment is modernised, and Chinese partners' plans are to increase copper production by five or six years. Only this year will Zijdin invest 165m euros in RTB. That means Bora's future is secure and guaranteed. The state will also invest around 50m euros in the Borska District in the coming period. The company "Zidjin Koper" Bor will develop, and the Borski District will develop along with it. So Chinese friends are very important to us, and co-operation with this investment bank will help to intensify and develop Serbia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52902	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52903	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, today are very important points on the agenda, especially the bill on confirming acts on the establishment of an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. We have heard in the debate already, but also from the authorised SNS representative, Mrs Tomic, why it is important to adopt this act. We heard what kind of benefits it would bring to Serbia, Serbia's economy, Serbian citizens. We heard what effects this will have to improve the overall economic environment and the inflow of new investments and then new jobs and everything else that represents a direct benefit for the citizens of Serbia. We from the SNS will support this legal act as well as all other efforts by both the government and the president of Serbia. However, in this debate today, in this House, we have been denied the debate with those who call themselves the opposition. They call it some kind of boycott. I'm not particularly sorry that they're not here and that they don't participate in the work, because of them rarely when we hear something that's justified criticism or some argumentary debate. They obviously have other things to do right now, Gilas is in Washington, Jeremic, in Vienna, if he hasn't already returned. They bend their land, the trees and the stones of our land there speak. Gilas is not worthy of denying that in Washington it is precisely to gain support for the plans they have, and their plan is how the press writes, and that is what has been particularly disturbing lately, so that on April 13th, they try some kind of violence, the cause of chaos and potential bloodshed, to violently change power in Serbia. Please look only at the last statement by Dragan Gilas from Washington, where he says – the current atmosphere in Serbia is such that any election could bring incidents and violence and I passed it on to American conversationaries. Look out, he says in those elections there'd be 1,000 incidents, probably victims. He here directly despite, by the way, be told about the serious replacement of thesis. He here directly calls for some kind of scenario, which would include violence and sacrifice, as he says. I'd like to, but I won't mind that he has some sort of mania and that he sees things, so he says on his Twitter account, Alexander Vukic, whom did you order to follow me 24 hours a day? Whoever's following you, you don't matter if anyone follows you, but that's news for the N1. And on that encrypted television, the only thing you can hear is the statements of Dragan Gilas and his tweets. It's appropriate for them. However, I would like to take the opportunity to give the citizens a clear message, which is that no violent scenarios will be tolerated. The state of Serbia will not tolerate any bloodshed, no causing riots on that famous April 13th, and I want to send them a message that no 5th October will happen again in Serbia, because Serbia today is not the same Serbia from 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52904	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52905	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, Mr Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Before I say a few sentences about the Bill on Confirmation of acts on the establishment of an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, allow Mr. Ministers to congratulate you, you and the Government of Serbia on the 18th place on the European ranking list, when it comes to health care from 35 countries for 2018. We heard that news two, three days ago. Allow another sentence, while congratulating you and the Government to say, when Alexander Vukic arrived at the head of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you, Mr. Loncar, as Minister of Health, we weren't even on the health list, and in just a few years we made progress, and now we're in 18 places, so for 17 places. As for the draft Act on Confirmation of Acts, on the establishment of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, let me say immediately, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that this is a first-rate thing for our country, because the purpose of the bank is to promote sustainable economic development, create wealth and create links between infrastructure and promote regional co-operation and partnership. The Republic of Serbia has been granted membership under certain conditions that the Republic of Serbia will meet. Therefore, the confirmation of the Bank's establishment of acts is important, so that its provisions are legally binding and applicable on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state is that the bank will approve truly favourable loans under favourable conditions. I am sorry, Mr. Vice President, that there is not one part of the MPs here today from the opposition benches, those who call themselves the Alliance for Serbia, and I call them "the Alliance for the Second Robbery of Serbia". They're wandering the streets. They don't know anything else. Look who's leading them, Bosko Obradovic, a known bully. Let me say two sentences, he made an incursion into RIK and on the members of RIK, and it went through the chimney of this high house from the attic and pressured him. He made an incursion into the municipality of Caves. He carried out an attack on journalists "Pinka", carried out an attack on Dr Aleksandr Martinovic at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Administrative Board. He carried out the attack at the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maju Gojkovic. He raided a police station in Guca, attempted to break into REM, raided the RTS building with saws, called for the hanging of the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic and urged Serbian Army officers to arrest the president of the state and execute a coup. That is why I think, Mr. President, that the conditions laid down in Article 103 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia have been met, which in its provision, says, among other things - who is calling or encouraging to change its constitutional order by force, the highest limited authorities or representatives of those bodies will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. Right now, let me say that I disagree with this criminal code of ours, and I think that punishment should be greater. Let me compare only one sentence from the penal code – Serbia from 1860, Knjaz Milos, who in his 85th article says among other things – "whoever takes or tries to deprive or betray the ruling Book of Life to the enemy, to punish himself by death." I ask the question to us, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how many MPs today would have this member of the law ended in a death sentence, especially those who called for the entry into the President's Office, in the presidency of the Republic and those who extradited Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. Let me say one more sentence, see who else led the protests, Dragan Gilas, in a nation called the Giki Mafia, stole 750m euros while in power. I think that in this case, the competent state authorities are doing their job, and I think we should speed up this job, and this third leader, Vuk Jeremic, called the Wolf descendant, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds and a great advocate for KIM to be a state. Watch out, his pal's been punished 10 days ago for three years in prison in the U.S. I hope justice comes to him, too. Marinika Tepic, known as the "dove flyer" who lays down in one party at night and wakes up in the other party in the morning, which was plagued by the AP Vojvodina budget while she was the province's secretary. Unhappened Janko Veselinovic, called "Janko Stanocrat", stole Milici Badzi's apartment in Obrovac, on the street of Brace Kurjakovic. Mr. Vice President, you are responsible for Janko Veselinović returning this apartment because you have allowed us to present this and inform the citizens that he has returned the stolen apartment under the pressure of this assembly. In the end, Dusan Petrovic, called "dual cows", while he was a one-year-old agriculture minister, gave to slaughter 250,000 cows from the total fund, out of 500,000. In the end, academician Teodorović Dusan. Please, have you seen him three days ago at the protest? I'm going to demonstrate now like this, here's when the name of the President of the Republic was mentioned, he was shaking his head like this, all shaking with hatred. Today, the people call him an academic earthquake, he got that name. In the end, it is an alliance of lesbians, freelenders, luftiguzas, mutators, secikes, frauds and haters whose nothing is sacred and at least the state of Serbia and its citizens. And in the end, the SNS will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52906	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a Mr. Minister, Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52907	Dear President, honourable MPs, I just want to thank you for this debate we've been having. I think that we have managed to touch all the details and all the topics and that everyone says their opinions and I think that's the right way and that this is the right Serbia where they talk and thus exchange opinions and facts. I see a part of the people is upset about what is happening to the people of Obradovic, Gilas, Jeremic, who want at all costs to cause some incidents in the country of Serbia, because they are in a hurry and do not respond to this country and Serbian citizens moving forward. I just want to assure you that those people who don't deserve so much attention because simply, if we visit time for what they do and what they do, we won't have enough time to do the right things to have the result that Serbian citizens expect of us. The citizens of Serbia gave us trust, i.e. they trusted Alexander Vukic, Alexander Vukic gave us and we have an unhindered obligation not to gamble this trust, to use it, to do the maximum work. I assure you, I assure the citizens of Serbia, that the law will be respected in the country of Serbia. That no one will block the president or the institutions or the roads or anything. They can go to both America and England and wherever they want and seek support, it only tells them how much they care about the citizens of Serbia. Why didn't they visit Serbian citizens and ask them to support them and convince Serbian citizens to vote for them, that they have some programme, and what they will do. No, they have not moved beyond the circle of two, but they are constantly at airports and under these world destinations, to whine, to beg, to spit on Serbia and their citizens to help them come. Well, the citizens of Serbia think about what kind of people who don't ask you for support to come to power, but ask some foreigners, and we know what kind of opinion and history we have with all these foreigners and what's important to them. These foreigners are not interested in Serbia and to make Serbia better, but each of them has its own interest, and all of them agree on one, unstable Serbia, a poor Serbia, that goes backwards, where they can manipulate and play their games and compete with others with which they wage open or hidden wars. So, please, don't just give them too much attention because we won't be able to do our job. The state exists and the state has to do it. Don't threaten them. I call on the D.A.'s office, I call on all the organs that exist to respond to that. Don't let them bother us with that. There are institutions that are called independent, there's a law let them take it and anyone who threatens and who thinks he's threatening, and not to do anything has to be sanctioned, if it's not done, we have ways to solve it too. We have full support for the people. Citizens don't want to hear this, citizens don't want to be bullied, citizens don't want to watch hangers, they don't want to watch saws, they don't want to, it's past tense. Serbia is not in 2003, or whatever, that such things can happen. To tell you the truth, they've seen, they can't handle this regime. Their problem is Alexander Vukitch. They will try in every way to neutralize Alexander Vukic so that they can come to power. Therefore, the state must react, if the state cannot, then citizens must react. Then we'll react, so we won't let what's happened to us in history happen to us. When they can't solve the problem, they'll physically liquidate someone. It won't work. He won't be able to do that. So, I appeal to everyone, everyone to take to do their job, especially the D.A.'s office. Gentlemen, please read the law in your hands what happens when someone threatens and protects the state, protects the institutions. You won't win the election, you can win the election every day. Transient governments, stupidity, what suits you, people don't even have it on cartoons. It's Santa Claus for New Year's Eve to go and make you wish, so you can see if there's a Santa Claus and if it's gonna happen to you. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52908	Thank you, Mr. Minister. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint Single Search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 6 to 9 of the agenda. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 1600 hours, so, in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16 to 19 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52910	Ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the government, my question concerns investments, i.e. the opening of factories in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I just look forward whenever I'm able to receive some information that a new factory has been opened in some area, that investments have been brought in. We also had opportunities to look forward to numerous meetings where the President of the Republic presented such results, from Vojvodina, Shumadija, Western Serbia, eastern Serbia, Southeast Serbia. But what comes into my eyes and definitely drives me to this question is what happens to the opening of a factory in the Sandzak area? If we exclude an intervention that is commendable for the recovery of the FAP complex, where a certain step has been made, we have, for years, been in the area of Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, Nova Varoshi, Prepolje, not a single investment. By bringing the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey closer together, we Bosniaks have been especially looking forward to it, counting here are the Turk brothers, and now they're going to go to the factories and on that side. We have observed, therefore, Turkish factories, and about 500 of them have already been opened in various areas of the Republic of Serbia. After all, however, I can no longer know who the Turks are anymore, us Bosniaks or you Serbs. I don't mind that the Serbs have become brothers and friends again. It's a good thing if God does, all of us, but I just can't understand why we don't have a single factory in the Sandzak area so far. So far, I've invoiced this more to my colleagues from Sandzak politicians, but obviously it's not just their fault, I don't really know whose fault it is, and I'm actually expecting from a government official here today, the answer about why we don't have any factories, especially foreign investments, and if it is, when will it be, because we've really waited too long? My second question is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, which concerns flyers, posters and inscriptions of anti-Muslims who appeared in the area of Subotica, what did he do in this field because we received information about the anxiety of members of the Islamic community in the area of Subotica? The third question concerns the already known event, the death of Ernad Bakan, three weeks ago, at the pedestrian crossing, why was all investigations allowed to run under a sort of secret? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52911	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52912	Thank you, First, I want to thank you for drawing attention today that the situation with attracting investments in Serbia is much better than it used to be, which is certainly seen by the number of jobs and the drastic decline in unemployment. We have in the last four years more than halved unemployment, as well as youth unemployment. I know that for Sandzak, the Raska area we have to do more, but you know the situation and how he started to work Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister, I continued it and my team in the government continued it. So we had to literally focus from one work to another work, from one district to the other district, and at that point, at the first run, Nis was the one where we had the complete focus to try to get on our feet as certainly a kind of regional centre. When it worked, then we switched to the Royal, Loznica, but in addition, we solved huge strategic problems of some large enterprises such as Jelizar, for which we found a solution in 2016. I am pleased to say that in just two years from the signing of the contract with China's Hestilo, last year by the end of 2018, Jelizara took over the primate as the largest exporter from the Republic of Serbia. So, Jelizara returns to the scene as an engine for the development of Serbia's economy, but we also had to find a solution for large systems such as RTB Bor, where we had 5,000 jobs and we ended up in the last quarter of last year, where we found a strategic partner, Chinese Zi Jin, one of the world's top mining companies that became owner of 63% of RTB. It guarantees the rest of all, retaining all 5,000 jobs, an investment of a billion 260m euros, out of which 780 million in the first three years to find a strategic partner, or concessionaire for the airport "Nikola Tesla". I guarantee you, now I've sent it to the Ministry of Economy to send it to me, informing me exactly about the situation in the Rasca area. So we have at "Lus Protekt" 120 employees, but we know, we are aware of how much it takes to focus on these local self-governments as well. So, I promise you in a strategic partnership with Turkish investors, as you said yourself, and I also owe them a great debt of gratitude because they especially go to local self-government and in areas where some other investors don't go because there is still a lack of quality infrastructure, so we will also focus on the Rask area.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52913	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52914	Thank you. As far as your first question is concerned, an investigation has been launched about these flyers in Subotica, which is really disturbing and we must not allow, especially in the environments that are multinational and multi-confessional, to allow ourselves, in any way, the right to at least threaten the peace of mind, and not to say the security of citizens who, I say, are any religion or nation. I am convinced that the police will eventually come up with information on who printed the flyers, who distributed them and who organized the action. As for the car accident in which Ernad Bakan of Novi Pazar was injured as a result of the accident, which occurred in early March in Zemun, I have to tell you that nothing was under wraps. I see on certain social networks people try to say – there, you know nothing. You know everything. The person who was driving the vehicle, who hit the late boyfriend, Ernad Bakan, stopped after a hit in that place. The person has waited for a police patrol, brought to the prosecution, a written criminal report, and will be held accountable to the court for its proceedings. So, I want to assure you that there's nothing that's not clean. Even that person didn't even try to escape the scene. In that sense, the situation was completely clean. I'm sorry that this guy happened after the car accident, a few days later, which we further notified the prosecution, died in the hospital and, let's say, we didn't go out with any more important information in public, except for a regular announcement, because at first, it was a traffic accident where all the perpetrators were known, all those who participated in it, and there was no need to say anything more, because it was all known. So there's nothing unclear, no one escaped from the scene. So, all the cameras, all the footage, it's all there, eyewitnesses, witnesses, the whole case is there, so I expect the court to do its part of the job quickly. Once again, I'm sorry for the Buckan family. Really, this is a terrible tragedy, this is a terrible thing that happened. It's another appeal that we keep making drivers, that they have to think about people who walk next to them. Unfortunately, we may lose the largest number of people in a car accident over the course of one year. We are losing huge biological potential throughout Serbia. It is important that the National Assembly also participates in stimulating young drivers to drive decent and normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52915	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52916	I thank both the Prime Minister and the Minister. Of course, we share confidence and joy over the high-end investment. That's good. I'm aware that the sooner he settles on the other side, the sooner this side can turn. It's just that I couldn't take the impression, but it's been since 2012. It's 2019. By 2012, we had a completely different, here, myself and the party that I represent, a different view. We had a kind of feeling that we were neglected, confronted on an ethnic basis, on a political basis. Since 2012 and later, especially when we have reached a certain agreement with the SNS and have become part of the ruling majority, we have no such impression, because we have information, not only for what is done, but for what is being prepared to do. But it's really hard, I'm a folk MP and I try to feel that way and act and not forget that I came from that people here. And when I get back there, they ask me – well, there could have been at least one factory. And, indeed, it is not possible to answer one such question at that time. So I expect, indeed, that we no longer have a story on a long stick, but to be told urgently in concrete terms where, when, from whom and in what way. So I'm even making myself available, wherever we can mediate, especially towards the Islamic world, we're going to give the maximum to make it happen. As far as this subject is concerned, what raised the importance of this issue is, in fact, the bloody terrorist crime that took place in New Zealand, as well as the information that the terrorist and criminal concerned was in the area of Serbia two years ago, the truth, about 12 hours ago. My information is that he also visited a mosque in the Sandzak area on that occasion and found such information in the papers the police found in him. So that's why the believers are taking an interest in us and talking to us. I received information that the head of the Islamic Community of Mufti Dr. Mevlud Efendija Dudic wrote to the interior minister a few days ago and I expect the minister to exactly according to the demands of this letter, where he asks that in Subotica, as well as in some other places where possibly members of Islam can feel some discomfort or where there were indications of certain threats or insults, that the activity of the state was actually strengthened. I don't doubt the intentions, I don't doubt the wishes, but sometimes it's just necessary to feel the moment when such a need appears psychologically. This second, regarding Ernad, is actually the result of the fact that three days ago I was the father of that boy, this guy, had a press conference and said that he didn't know who the perpetrator was. Now these questions actually calm me down and I believe that the family will also calm down to the extent that I can ease the pain. The most important thing is that it is properly and justly processed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52917	Thank you. The word has Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52918	Thank you. Let me just add a few more things. It's absolutely clear to me, I know it's hard for everyone to wait for investments, new jobs. We all know how important this is, and you know how long we've been since 2014, when Aleksandar Vucic took over to run the government, what focus is always on the economy, because of the better lives of citizens and some perspective of Serbian citizens. So, I'm saying, we had this in Raška, Lus protekt, 120 employees. We hope it will grow slowly to 300. In addition, I was just informed by the Ministry of Business that about 20 days ago we had a promotion of a programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises in Novi Pazar and Tutin, where we had some 200 businessmen from these local self-governments, where a number of concrete steps were agreed, from electricity, customs, to credit and on which we will continue to work. So, parallel to going to new investments, on the side of direct investments, we're working on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurship. It is also important for me to tell you that only we, you remember, are probably, after all, thanks to one of the laws that passed the Assembly, since 1 October of last year, we have introduced special tax reliefs for beginners in business, so that now for young people who have completed schooling in the past 12 months, whether they have completed secondary schools or completed colleges or have been people who have been jobless for more than six months, or registered in the National Employment Service, since 1 October, if they open their own company, first year of business, for the first 12 months do not pay taxes and contributions, in order to give them the motivation that without having to pay something to the state for the first month, to let them work, so that if they succeed, only from the second year of business, they pay all taxes and contributions. We have been here all over Serbia since October 1st, so, over a period of about five months for which I have the latest data, this is October 2018 – February 2019, based on these incentives, 802 companies have opened throughout Serbia, one number of these and in the county, the area you are engaged in and you are interested in and only 965 persons have been employed. So, so far 1,000 new jobs are based solely on incentives in entrepreneurship, and that is, after all, the pillar of a healthy economy. We're gonna follow this, we're gonna watch how much, I'm gonna take a personal look at how much it is and in the Raski area, and we're gonna see from here on out. If this works, we will follow from 1 October 2019 how many of these companies are left and then spread such incentives to other groups of people. It is certainly important that, in parallel with investments, we never forget both small and medium-sized enterprises, what we do for them and what we do for entrepreneurship. I'll just tell you this, as far as these speculations are concerned, whether it's because of ethnic background or not, believe me absolutely not. I think if someone in all of Europe is working on having one country equal and giving equal chances and equal opportunities for all, regardless of national, ethnicity, then that's certainly Serbia. Today, just before I came here, I chaired the eighth session of the Republic Council for National Minorities. Since the previous Council, we have registered two more national Councils of National Minorities - Russian and Polish. Serbia is a country that today has 23 national councils of national minorities. We have also successfully organised regular elections for national minority councils on 4 November 2018 and adopted in the Assembly a whole set of laws that improve the position of national minorities, including the Bosniak national minority, such as the National Minority Councils Act, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, the Law on Original Books, which now prescribes a way of enrolling information on national membership in the book of origin born if people themselves wish, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Working Relations, which provides for affirmative measures for the employment of members of national minorities, so that there is no talk about any intention that involves creating differences in religious, national or ethnic background. And finally, what's extremely important is infrastructure. There's also the Deputy Prime Minister. So we have these plans for Novi Pazar – Tutin, and it will in many ways make life easier for citizens there and bring investors. The work begins in June.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52919	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. This time to two minutes. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52920	Since the King is located in the Raška region, someone can understand and tell you – well, we opened factories in the Raška region. That's why I expect you to start in Sandzak. So, I'm looking forward to the Raska area, but I'm asking you to go with Sandzak, and I hope we understand this remark. One more thing about relations with Muslims. In the context of the overall and international themes of terrorism and under various titles and Islamophobia, which also pressures Muslims on various meridians, I want to point out one positive news that stems from the fact that we have been following Serbia since 2012, so in particular, in 2014 there are significant declines in elements, i.e. the negative attitude towards Muslims as a religious category in Serbia. Of course we can tie this to government policy, headed by the president, and then to the opening of Serbia to Islamic and Muslim countries, Turkey, Emirates, etc., which actually meant a message to citizens. We, for example, used to have a lot of insults to the media through various forms of non-serious, irrelevant emissions, which reflected negatively on Muslims. I want to welcome this and support it, and this is actually an example of when a ruling policy wants a different relationship, it can replace and even begin to heal some of the wounds that have existed here since the wars, many of the earlier and later ones, so that in fact I want to express my support to the government and the president on this course, and the need to intensify it even more, as MPs. The institutions that exist in the Sandzak area, above all, both religious and national, want to be part of this common story, the construction of Serbia that will be a homeland for all citizens, regardless of religious and national membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52921	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a question for the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, and the Justice Minister is not here right now. It is my opinion that Serbia is ruled not by one who walks the longest, not by one who has the strongest muscles, not by one who is the loudest, but by one who gets the most votes. With that in mind, I ask the government and the interior minister -- do they think they are taking steps to keep the next elections in order and in peace? Can they guarantee that? We all remember the break-in in RIK 2016. Here's a photo. So, it's about Bosko Obradovic, who, as early as 2016, had entered RIK and qualified himself as a bully. There's a photograph of him with a stone. There's a photo of him breaking into the president of the National Assembly. Here are his latest photos of the invasion of RTS. For me, it was an attempt at a coup, no matter what the government had mercy and didn't call it that. Since the government does not hold elections, but guarantees work and peace and gives financial resources, my question is clear – what will you do if this group led by Bosko Ljotic, Jeremic and Gilasom tried, and already practiced in Luciani, to break up polling stations, ballot boxes, to harass people in polling stations? If it does so organised in several polling stations, and there are all opportunities to do so, what will the government, the competent ministry, do to make these elections pass in a fair and correct atmosphere? Even clearer to ask – how long will you be tolerated? It is a question for the Minister of Justice who is not there, it is a question for the Prosecutor's Office and Zagorko Dolovac and the Minister of the Interior – how long will the violence of this group of people who, apart from the naked violence, have nothing else to offer to the state of Serbia? I believe that no one can bring Serbia down from the outside unless someone inside helps them. I think it's right on stage, and last time, six, seven months ago, I warned you of such a single possible phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52923	The word has the interior minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52924	Unfortunately, I have to agree to most of what you asked. When you mentioned Bosko Obradovic's incursions to RIK, then, unfortunately, in the office of the President of Parliament, we have two events that took place in the Parliament building itself, and it was a terrible thing indeed. This showed that certain people do not contaminate from anything, even physical violence to achieve some of their goals. After that, the same group organised the beating of two journalists' TV "Pink", all of which took place in a relatively short period of time and shows one intention. After that, unfortunately, the threat of rape by the prime minister attacks women at every turn. Indeed, one terrible atmosphere done by Bosko Obradovic, as Gilas's extended arm, but I would not want to absolve Gilas, or Jeremic of responsibility because they chose someone who would be their spokeswoman and who would try with physical violence, we also saw in the Lucans that they attacked a woman, again a woman who is a citizen of Lucana and who came to vote in the elections, again in the hallway, in line for voting the attack on the woman. Unfortunately, it doesn't break, it doesn't break, because this pattern that involves violence and especially violence against women, it's obviously become a manner in which some people think it's perfectly allowed to behave and think they're running politics. What's the problem? The problem is obviously when there's no policy, when there's no program. If you can't get people out, Bosko Obradovic has made it very clear that he will shut down the factories, that's what we all heard, so he doesn't slow it down. He wants to shut down the factories we're opening. And then Mr. Zukorlic asks when you're going to open factories, if you have someone in the country who threatens investors every day, and he tells investors from Turkey and says -- I'm going to come in front of your factory, e, we're going to shut this factory down. You know, it's a terrible thing, what we tell people who want to leave their money in Serbia, and on the other hand what they tell workers, people who live on it, people who go to work there to earn their salary to live honest with their work. So, this concept, the first robbery privatisations that destroyed our country, destroyed our country, so let's talk whoever it wants, but when you look at the images of the companies in which they left Serbia, what they robbed, how many hundreds of thousands of people were out of work, it was that clock that unfortunately measured in minutes how many people were left out of work every day. We count how many people we've hired. They've wrapped many families in black, but literally so. The president spoke today, I had the opportunity to follow up on these talks with people who took loans in Swiss francs and who know very clearly, since the largest number was slightly 2006, 2007, 2008, in those years. Neither did anyone warn them, and they were stimulated by the government, in which both Djilas and Djelic and Cvetkovic and Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, and everyone else. That power told them it's really great to be in debt in a currency that I can't explain to them any of the trends that it's going to be, how much stronger than the dinar, how much money they're going to devalue against that currency, whatever you want, how willing they are to defend the rate of dinar against that currency, how willing they are to help that population. And, these people, I only took them as one category of people, and today Alexander Vukic has to solve the problems that Gilas left him. When we came to power in the City of Belgrade in 2014, it wasn't, I don't know, until 2014, Gilas was mayor, found a budget deficit of 20%, only one indicator, the city in charge and its public enterprises in charge. I'm looking at the controversy around kindergarten, at a time when Gilas was mayor of 45 thousand children had the right to go to kindergarten, today 75 thousand children. And they say they were successful and good. Indebted the city, twice as many kids went to kindergarten, twice as much. So it's not people for 100, 200 or 1,000. In Gilas' time 45,000, and now 75,000. Plus that they illegally charged their parents a higher price for about 9,000 per child, which the city later based on court decisions, rightly, according to the Law had to pay back, but those parents damaged when it was important for their children, etc. Of course, that looting policy has created one part of the tycoon elite, so to speak, which is only used to being on the state register. You see Bosko, Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, when you see a feverish struggle to return to the chairs, it's not some new people, it's the people who cheered and dressed in this country. Gilas came to power in 2004, formally becoming director of the Republic's Office, so the Minister for the National Investment Plan, therefore, was also a member of the government at the time, so that people do not forget and say he was just the mayor. No, he worked for the president of the Republic directly, so he was a member of the government, and then the mayor of Belgrade, from 2008 to 2014. So a man who'd been in office for 10 full years, and for those 10 full years, he'd tell us how he got his money back in the Czech Republic, how he got rich, that money came as a rich man in politics, that's how he got something back to his country. Then we understand, when the Czechs announced, that all of his companies, in total, had a total profit of 73,000 euros throughout the business of Dragan Gilas in the Czech Republic. All together for all the years, cumulatively all the companies. Then I admit that there are 25m euros, he's counted apartments, companies and everything else, today he admits himself to having $25m. It seems to me when someone admits they're 25, that you're doing it so you don't ask any more. Since 25 doesn't seem to be exactly the right number, only what was visible through those companies that were directly led to it were 18 billion dinars of traffic in the period while performing 10 years of this function. I don't want to talk about Jeremiah. Here now Patrick Ho is sentenced to three years in prison, as it is possible that someone who participates in intermediation between two men who are both convicted of corruption, and the one who intervened in their corruption will be a wonderful, honest, brilliant, moral and upright man. Maybe law can't convict him, but don't just tell us how they intervened in corruption between the two, and you're clean here, you just happened to find yourself here. We've been to hundreds of meetings with them, what? He had nothing else to do at the time. We know why, because their bosses paid them millions of euros. Then report that he's getting paid in certain funds and that it's his salary, and then the people in those funds say, "No, he doesn't work with us." Then the question arises – where the money came from and when you reported it and why you reported it, etc. And you have Boška who beats people up on the street for them, who hopes to be in a position to get him out of the state register too. So, that's unfortunately the reality. And now that you're asking me, the government has been patient, the police have been patient, they are these people, and I want to thank all the cops who have endured a lot of pressure in the past, who have endured standing to spit at them, to bark at them, to kick them, to throw stones, bottles and all, as if it were some other people, as if they had come from Mars. These officers are our children, our brothers, our fathers, our mothers, our loved ones, our neighbors, and our friends doing their job. And they lived up to every opportunity they had to live up to the police, they do, but they take advantage of everyone. Unbelievable. Terrible things have happened, and I want to thank the cops for really putting up with it, because you know, I know what the goal is. No one here is small, we all understand everything, put on a cordon of cops, someone hits them with a bottle, hit them with a rock, provoke a police reaction to arrest someone, they say there's police brutality, here's police party service interests. Then all those same guys tomorrow and some police unions with them go along and say, "We fight for honest cops, and then tomorrow they sell them in 12 seconds, let them down the water." That's how they treat cops, that's how they end up treating their own people, because if you don't know, so these gatherings as signatories to those who report these meetings to the police, some young people who are neither Bosko nor Djilas, or Jeremic, or Borko Stefanovic, appear none of them. They let some other people be signatories to it and when a crime occurs at the rally or material damage occurs, according to the Law, the one who reported the rally, the one who organized the redistribution service, and this is the organizer of the gathering, the one who is the leader of the gathering. The law is clear. Tomorrow they will shout, they will say both Gilas and Jeremic and Boskovic, no, no, arrest us, don't arrest them, and they know that no one can arrest them, because they are not formally responsible and cover themselves behind these people. Unfortunately, that violence, protecting others, violence against women, robbery privatisation, obviously everything they offer us. That's what you have as a clear offer. I am grateful to them for making it very clear that the citizens of Serbia know tomorrow when the elections come, when they round up the number in front of their names, that no one has the illusion of what they get when they vote for them. Because at this point they know how they stand in their people, I'm sure they're only thinking about some physical violence, to try to raise their ratings in such a way. To answer that part of your question, we won't allow anyone violence, whatever his name or last name is, whatever it is. The elections in this country will be held in accordance with the law and the Constitution, as this National Assembly voted, and those electoral regulations have not even been passed by us as a majority, they were brought before even, I think, for 12 years. You remember that they changed electoral conditions even to the local one for the city of Belgrade, at the last moment in the evening of the elections there are no more direct choices that by chance Vukic will not win, now that Gilas is due to run, we are going to a proportional system. They've changed election conditions for this assembly, we haven't changed anything. The way they chose him, we left it all so that we wouldn't change the conditions. As you've done, your majority, we'll go like that. They won't now, because they see that people won't vote for them, but that doesn't mean they can beat even women, they won't be able to beat people on the street, they won't be able to beat them, they won't be able to throw stones, they won't be able to live on cops. I ask you to let an honest, decent and normal Serbia never let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52925	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52926	Thank you. I would certainly like, after what the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and as Prime Minister, have said to you, too, honourable MPs, to whom we are ultimately responsible for our work and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to understand a few things. First of all, we understand that of these protesting people, there are two groups of people. One people who are unhappy, citizens who are dissatisfied with certain things, probably dissatisfied with the law, and we would like to go faster, but for some reforms, for major, difficult changes, it takes time. I think that the better results are constantly seen and that this will continue in the future, that people will live better, that life in Serbia will be increasingly quality and that people for themselves and their families will see an ever-increasing perspective. But I am certainly, and as Prime Minister, always extremely interested and open to hearing these people as well as their suggestions and suggestions, which we can do better, what we can do differently and how we can come up with some things to solve some of the problems they have. These people wanted to and wanted to protest peacefully. There are another group of people in these protests, these are politicians gathered around the Alliance for Serbia, who wanted to take advantage of that first group of people, and citizens who were dissatisfied, and who wanted to quietly express their dissatisfaction and draw attention to the government, who first took refuge behind them, and then, in the absence of patience, tried to take over these gatherings and denied these people the right, their civil, democratic first, to peaceful protests. It is absolutely clear to us, it is crystal clear today, after what happened when it entered the RTS and after trying to block the presidency and the legitimately elected president of the Republic of Serbia with a large majority of the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is crystal clear to us that they know that in the elections they cannot get a vote, they cannot get the majority trust of Serbian citizens and that therefore the only way for them to get hold of those authorities is violence. From Sunday to Sunday, we respected the democratic right of citizens to express their dissatisfaction and protest. We also didn't want to bring any single police officers to the streets, to this very other group of people, these politicians gathered around the Alliance for Serbia, to give them any excuse to justify the violence they wanted to cause or give them an excuse to radicalise these peaceful protests. With them for more than 16 weeks, I think it was when they lost their patience, we didn't give an excuse, then they themselves decided to commit violence and radicalize protests, and then there was an unfortunate invasion of RTS, threats to those journalists, editors and the entire collective, and then absolute violence in front of the presidency in Belgrade. It is clear to us today and today we are ready to continue radicalising protests without any necessary excuse. I would like to say again to you and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will absolutely, at any moment, be able to protect the order and democratic order in the Republic of Serbia, that it will be able to protect the electoral will of citizens, that a violent minority, no matter how violent it is, will never be able to endanger the majority of the will of the democratically expressed citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's a point to that. So, citizens should be completely calm, completely calm that we will be able to provide a safe, peaceful, stable life for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we will be able to ensure that those citizens who are unsatisfactory can peacefully and with dignity express their dissatisfaction or how the Government works or our results or anything else and that we will always be there for these citizens to talk to them. Also, I would like to say that the government at no time at all, regardless of the threats of hanging, and then physically showing the gallows at that rally, to the introduction of a motor saw into RTS, to endless verbal threats and insults that neither I, nor anyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was absolutely afraid. It is hard for these people to scare us in any way, although today, I don't know how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it, waiting for MPs from the Dvora in front of the Assembly, probably physically again to scare us, scare us, and threaten us. The government, legitimately chosen from this home, which comes to this National Assembly to answer the questions of people who, you MPs, who control our work, not only answer you, but report to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are not afraid of that either. I have to say that my security detail said that it would be good if we walked into the back entrance of the Assembly, I absolutely didn't want that. I'm not going in, I'm the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I'm proud of my country, I'm not going into the Assembly at the back entrance. No Bosko Obradovic, no violencer from Dvera, will prevent me from entering the Serbian Parliament as a man, the Prime Minister and reporting to the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're not scared, we're not going to agree to the ultimatums, we're going to preserve order and democratic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52927	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52928	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not agree that Dragan Gilas was just a minister, head of the People's Office and mayor, I would say he was more of a thief, because while the city was sinking into a 1.2 billion debt, he was incometing 720m euros. With this in mind, I ask the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance – can we, if we are thrifty and careful, handle the money carefully, continue the programme of renewal of tractor machinery? So, programs, mechanisms connected exist, there are various other programs, livestock, fruit growing, etc., but a year ago we had an active renewal of several thousand tractors, primarily for small agricultural holdings. So, the 720m euros made by Dragan Gilas, with that money, we could restore 72,000 tractors for small agricultural holdings. It speaks of a joint criminal enterprise of the former government, the former regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this point I ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture - are we planning to settle the debts of farmers for pension and disability insurance, this Minister of Agriculture certainly knows, and the debts for health insurance, because it totals about 200 billion dinars? It burdens agricultural holdings and it's impossible to return. So, if I dare suggest, I can write off the interest or sell the debt for about 5-10% or compensate for the right to incentives. So I'm interested in what we're gonna do in that direction. Finally, I should say that the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economy should answer whether they are planning, because agriculture is no longer just a matter of agriculture, but also demographics, that, apart from agricultural development in small areas, we try to develop a co-operation-based processing industry, such as some European countries, to find jobs for both our father in the field and for our son in processing, in such a way that we restore Serbia, to renew both the population and to make everyone happy and to be for every job and bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52929	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52930	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia, thanks to the difficult but successful measures in the economy and economy of Aleksandr Vukic, is today more economically powerful than it was. Thanks to persistent and valuable work in the area of security structures, Serbia's military and security forces are far stronger than we were. It's very difficult to endanger Serbia from the outside, but inside it's very easy, it's very possible. We're ready to defend ourselves against any threat that can get beyond our borders, but what's being prepared and what's going on within our borders, that's something we have to take care of, all of us together. From threatening people, announcing rapes, hangings, killings, we've made almost a normal phenomenon, as if it's almost normal, no one ever looks back on it anymore. When thugs, such as Bosko Obradovic or one of his allies, Đilas, Jeremic, say someone is not normal, that they should hang him, when they burn someone's doll, we don't even get angry anymore. We have accepted it as the most normal thing, and it is terrible, that in our public and political life we have introduced such a form of behavior that it is perfectly normal and acceptable to insult, hate, call for someone's murder. And then after that, of course, you have to come to the use of force. And then after a while, of course, when no one punishes you and it's perfectly okay to lynch the Contravision team at the protest, whoever's organising that protest, I'm not the safest one, they're no longer sure who they are and what they are, then it's normal that you end up eventually by breaking into Serbian Radio Television, by trying to get into the presidency of the Republic of Serbia at the moment of the President of the Republic of Serbia. In what country in the world is that normal and acceptable? Serbia can shake, Serbia can only break what comes from it, not what comes from the outside. We are stronger than external threats, but what can happen within our people is what can worry and disquiet us, all together, no matter what they do and no matter what they do. Our primary and primary goal is for people to live better. That's what investment does. What investments, when you're waiting outside the National Assembly for the beatings? Who wants to come to a country where 300 beatings can get into Serbian Radio TV and say, "We want to turn directly into a program?" What kind of investments do you expect where a couple of hundred beatings are gathered and said – we will either take down the president who received a million votes or liquidate him? In what country does anyone expect us to get foreign investments? Who wants to come and bring serious money and bind their economic fate to a country where political opponents fight, in which dolls are burned, in which hangels are worn, threatened by a legitimately elected president, in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian MPs should not enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That's not the kind of country you want to invest in. That's what these beatings are all about. It is their goal, to make Serbia a bad place to live again, to make Serbia the place for the life of robbery privatisation, the place for a life where it was enough for you to be in power, so you immediately became your own marketing space in the Republic of Serbia, to become the one that buys all seconds of Serbian Radio Television in advance for a year and then trade and do whatever you want and do with them. Such a Serbia can be made if the beatings win. The elections, whenever they are, and I personally, as a coalition partner of the SNS, advocate that they be as soon as possible, to get to the citizens of Serbia as soon as possible and to show everyone what they have, they will show their hatred and violence, and we what we have done all these years, that they will show that the citizens of Serbia will live better when they hang us and when they burn us, and we will show that they will live better when we continue with Alexander Vukic's policies. I advocate that these elections be tomorrow, if possible, as soon as possible. Whenever they are, they will be democratic, fair, peaceful. I really thank the interior ministry in a way that has endured the preservation of order and peace at the time of the worst violence in Belgrade. It was supposed to hold. It's very hard to look at people who insult, spit, attack, hit, when they fall kicking them, it's very hard to watch. I know how the police felt at that time, as I know how Minister Stefanovic felt at that time, as I know how President Vukic felt at that time. It is difficult not to answer the human being and say, "You have gone by force, and you will gain strength." But the statesman abstains and says, "No, we won't fall for what you're doing and we won't let you build a Balkan pub from Serbia, we won't let Serbia be the place where you kill yourself and fight, where you will live your lowest fears, we won't. Whenever there are elections, they will be peaceful, they will be safe, they will be democratic, there will be elections where people will say what they think, and that seems to be the main problem. We, and it is good to hear the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, announce "Maydan", announce that they will camp here, that tents will be brought, that institutions will be blocked, that individuals, highways, schools will be blocked, that normal life will stop in Serbia. It was done in Ukraine before the civil conflict started in Ukraine, it was happening in Macedonia, it was happening in Romania, it was happening in all those places where it was very difficult to live afterwards. They want to bring "Mayan" into our country's squares. Let me remind you, you remember Automajdan in that same Ukraine and we had Automajdan. You remember trying to block the streets, the squares, the bridges, and the same thing was done in Ukraine. Every single one of them repeats identical patterns of behavior, repeats identical forms of behavior, and just sometimes wonders – how are they not ashamed not to come up with something new? To find at least a new idea, but only to repeat what was done in other countries, and what made those countries unhappy, divided and conflicted. They are now announcing that they will do so and probably have nothing else to do. You know, when you see that on one of the hardest and saddest days of our recent history, on the day of the start of NATO aggression, you don't have a united nation, you actually have a united nation, all Serbian citizens were united in pain that day, and they remember those who are not with us except the leader of the opposition that travelled to Washington on that day. I'm talking about Dragan Gilas who took advantage of that time, not to say -- do you feel responsible for the bombing, do you feel the need to apologize to the Serbian people, do you feel the need to say that it was a terrible mistake? No, but at that time, Dragan Gilas in Washington used to say -- Serbia is a non-democratic country, Serbia is a terrible country, there is no freedom, there is no choice, there is a dictatorship in it. Well, such a country is being bombed, so such a country should be bombed. But he took the time to justify those who bombed us why they bombed us. When you let it go in the media, then the average citizen who's not interested in Serbia, or what's happening, says - so we were right 20 years ago, see what kind of country it is. The nation was united that day both in pain and in memory and in piety, but those who try to return to power and once again ride Serbia were not with their people. They were where they thought they could hurt the Serbian people most and hurt this country. They want to make a Mayan one more time. The election will be fair and democratic by the rules that were made long before us. I'll share you ladies and gentlemen, and we all share a common experience when we were in opposition we didn't ask for any changes in election conditions, we were just looking for choices. We were sure that the people were with us and we were just looking for elections and we won by the electoral conditions that they had made. It's no different. We were just looking for fair, fair and democratic elections. And when we had hundreds of thousands of people on the street, right here in front of this house, we didn't stop a single hour's life, we didn't stop a single MP from going in and doing his job, we didn't break into the RTS, we didn't break into the presidency, we didn't break into the government of the Republic of Serbia, we didn't hurt a single cop, because we knew they were our brothers, because we knew they were our friends and our neighbors. We didn't use force. They use force even when they don't have people on the street. Serbian citizens must know that we will do everything possible to ensure democracy prevails, to overcome fascism, and it can be nothing more than fascism when you threaten, burn, hang, seek rape, and it can be nothing worse than insulting and humiliating your country on the day of the greatest pain in the country's recent history. On that day, if you have nothing to say, keep quiet, hide, keep quiet, don't spit your country on the day we remember seventy-nine children killed. Don't go where we were bombed, just hold out that day to pretend you care about this country, just hold on that day. They didn't last a single day. Just as they gather here on the stairs and instead of accepting to fight for what they believe, if and what they believe, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they use another pathetic attempt to be big, strong, once again, the citizens of Serbia, even those who voted for them, have to ask themselves well – whether my voice was given to stand on the stairs and prevent people's MPs and the government from doing their job or to represent my interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will decide whenever the elections are fair, democratic and no one else will decide on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52931	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52932	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, MPs, thank you for the questions that have been asked and I will take the opportunity to give a brief look at everything we have done in these areas that you mentioned just before Mr. Risticevic. Let's start with the first thing. It's primarily the agricultural budget. In the past few weeks, I have been in Parliament several times and spoken to MPs, and in the context of various legislative proposals. That's when we came to the debate, I guess, to the final numerical conclusion that 53 and 54 were more than 18, because I keep hearing about how ten years ago the subsidies were higher, 2009, 2010, 2011. Let's go back to another short class, for first and second grade primary school, for all those who don't know how to count, at least in my village, my city 54 is more than 18. Today, the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is 54 billion dinars, and seven, eight, ten years ago was 18/19. I think it's important for the public to remind, because very often it's mentioned, and I heard it yesterday from some experts that there are far less subsidies than they were. Well, maybe in that part of the hectare part, but don't forget, that's when one minister introduced 12 or 14 thousand dinar subsidies and didn't pay off all the subsidies, but we got 59 thousand claims that we had to pay after the trial. Well, what is it? So you have to promise something you can't keep. You can suggest as much as you can, predict how long your yorgan is. I guess that's the way it is at home with every normal host. Let me go back to the question of Mr Risticevic about tractors, in 2017, the government of the Republic of Serbia had a programme for the procurement of tractors and for the promotion of farmers in the fruit, vegetables and wine growing sector. Let me remind you, at that point, the government was giving about 15,000 euros the maximum return for the supply of tractors. It was a 25 kilowatt power tractor, up to 100 kilowatts. Then I listened to the same stories, he says, he's going to divide 100, 200 tractors, that as he comes to whom, then bye-bye, it won't be for the others, and they've been a little fooled in the whole story. There were 2,400 requirements filed for tractors, 2,100 requirements adopted, paid, people got and most importantly, that was the word of restoring agricultural machinery, or tractors for small farmers who had never had a chance to obtain a tractor before. We're going one step further, and also all those experts over the past ten years, I don't even know who the Minister of Agriculture was anymore, I can't tell you that I remember, I only know, I guess I've come to him 13 agriculture ministers after 2000, who are 13 pigs. Which I am, the 15th. Well, Professor Chevarlic's better count, he always has these problems with numbers. But no matter, 13, 15 whoever it is, the pig is a pig. It's very important to say that I've never had IPARD, eight years talking about IPARD. Why are we talking about IPARD? Because one way to get a tractor is through IPARD. Eight years of talking, and it will be yesterday, and it will be the day after tomorrow, and it will be in three days, and in six days, and here, and there, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was led at that time by Aleksandar Vucic, joint activities of several ministries and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Agriculture, managed to obtain accreditation for the IPARD and call first competitions and we already have the first, not first, 500 demands in the first competitions. In particular, the tractors had 393 requirements, and we had no such opportunity before. It's again for those farmers who, I say, are on some medium level, who can get machines that are stronger. Of course, that's where the respect started, now there's some tycoons, typhoons, I don't know who else, right? In the whole story, those agricultural companies that have larger quantities of agricultural land cannot participate, because this is a programme intended for small and medium-sized agricultural producers. What am I gonna do with them? I guess they thought that in 2008, 2009 and 2010, in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, when he was Gilas, when he was, I don't know who the Minister of Agriculture, Dusan Petrovic, I guess that's how they wanted to set it up, but they won't be able to this night. Come on, let's move on. As far as tractors are concerned, it was an actual story about the purchase of diesel fuel. The finance ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia, approved two billion for the purchase of diesel fuel, for agricultural producers, 60,000 per hectare, 20 dinar per litre, and then there were stories when it will be paid, it will not be in time. Now, let me get the exact information, which is the end of yesterday. I think it's very important for the public to say it. We have 176,908 agricultural holdings that have been paid off with the end of yesterday. They've received incentivizing funds that are intended per hectare, also for the purchase of diesel fuel. So, as we said, and we said within seven days of filing, he'll get the funds, not seven, I'm sorry, there were three. Don't be angry. One more thing about getting the raw material that's necessary for the spring set, and that's the thing we're doing. Whoever applied for it, he got the money, and whoever didn't file for it, I'm asking him to do it by April 30, because that's when it's the last deadline. I hope that all these agricultural holdings that are actively engaged in agriculture, which they still have, which have not applied for, I ask them to do so. We'll be in the account as soon as possible within a few days when you file a request through the competent branch of the Treasury Administration. As far as the new tractor program is concerned. I think that's the key to this whole first question story. Sure, yeah, yeah. We are thinking about it and of course we will try together with the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find funds in the second half of the year with a new programme for the procurement of tractors, for those who cannot get to the IPARD, who are not at their capacity and in their economic strength that they achieve in the context of agricultural production, and that they do not have the strength to realise it. I'm hoping for a new cycle of at least 1,000, 1500 new tractors. We have one more thing. These gentlemen 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2009, and 2010, were decommissioning that IMT until the last part, as one film would say, "other buttons only". A year and a half ago, when the then Prime Minister of India was in India, and the first contacts with several major world producers were made, and I just have to remind the public, of the 10 largest tractor manufacturers in the world, three came from India. We then entered into active negotiations with these companies and wonders, we managed to find a partner to buy a brand of IMT, to buy a location in the municipality of Secanj – Jarkovci, which is now being reconstructed, and if God so, somewhere in July, August of the month, we will have the first Serbian tractors 537, 539, 565, which will be produced in Serbia, 577, whatever. So those tractors and they will be presented in space at the agricultural fair that will take place since 11 May in Novi Sad. It is very important that we have our own tractor, that we have a Serbian tractor and encourage the acquisition of this type of tractor. I thank all those who have provided us with support, the competent Committee on Agriculture, colleagues from other ministries. There is another important thing about tractors and there has been a very important sychronisation with the MUP since agricultural associations have emerged, related to these tables and the renewal of registration for agricultural machinery, in front of the MPs of this home, there have been amendments to the law on the MIP initiative, where the deadline, i.e. the delay in the time period foreseen for the registration of tractors with certain conditions to be met. But anyway, much easier, we have these two sides of the whole story. We must also take care of safety and the needs of farmers for agricultural production. Let's go to other questions. I apologize if I take too much time, I'll cut it short. I'm really sorry. Since I see that the theme of agriculture is becoming more and more relevant, thank God everyone remembered once that agriculture was so important. I think you agree with me. Some nod their heads, and some are silent, but it doesn't matter, slowly, and those who are silent will understand. As for PIO for farmers, there is no black hole that currently exists, 180 billion dinars at the moment are obligations that Serbian farmers are plagued by obligations from PIO and health insurance. Why is that? Now we can go in reverse for 30 years. That legacy of yours that we have here, because there is a obligation for everyone to be in the system, anyone who has more than half a hectare of the earth, has to be in the system. What's been going on for all these years? So 330,000 taxpayers we have at this point which, bonds on different grounds of insurance, and related to agriculture. We are currently doing a project with the World Bank, doing this analysis, and we are doing it together with the Ministry of Labour, to solve this "gordy node" that exists. Imagine the situation, had a hectare, or had 100 acres, you must pay the same for contributions to PIO. Some of these were introduced 10, 15, 20 years ago. Is that normal? A man can't make the same income on one hectare of the country as a man on 100 acres of land and pay a little more than 80,000 dinars a year. That's not normal. On the other hand, you have another larger absurd. It's that, paying 15 years of contributions, paying 40 years of contributions, you have the same pension. Is that normal? I see Professor Chevarlic confirms this, too. That means we've convinced some more. Thank you for that. Look, people, we need to cut this "gordy knot" and it's in the first MP Risticevic when he says we need to find the mechanism. It is our idea to find a mechanism in the same day to resolve these obligations that exist and to establish new rules of play and prepare this system. I hope we can get out of this house in the course of this year and figure this out already. This is a painful question. Look, we currently have 330,000 taxpayers, 7,000 taxpayers who are either dead or secured on a different basis. So, they can't be, you can't be secured twice. You can only be secured once. It's a long-standing legacy that exists. We have one more thing, analysing the economic situation of agricultural producers, all somewhere around 70,000, 80,000 agricultural holdings, has the economic power to meet its obligations at this point in time. We need to find a way to get these others into the system through the incentive system. He can't do it overnight. This is a very sensitive question. This is an important political issue, a question that is important for, above all, the existence of a large number of households, particularly in those parts of Serbia that are less developed, above all I think of eastern Serbia, will require specific targeted measures for each space. I would take the opportunity today to congratulate the Faculty of Agriculture at Zemun's birthday, 100 years of existence. So, one institution that took out all that stuff next to the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, next to the Faculty of Cacca, took out all this capacity that we have in agriculture at the moment, I congratulate them once again on it. To go back to the third, and how important, perhaps the most important thing, that's the story of the food industry. There is no sector over which a larger genocide has been destroyed since 2000 to 2010, but rather the Serbian food industry. There is no part of Serbia's economy that is more devastated, except in one part of the dairy industry and some processing of seeds, all other parts, especially fruit and vegetables, mutilated. So literally mutilated. I choose words, but if I choose words, and I say disfigured and genocide, then you can imagine how far that's gone. No agriculture, no country can develop without the food industry and without open markets where you can export either your primary products or these products from the food industry. That doesn't work without each other. Anyone who says the job of the Minister of Agriculture is exclusively to deal with crops has mixed something up. Seriously mixed, because without the food industry there is no development of agriculture. The government of the Republic of Serbia this January adopted a special regulation on incentives for investors who want to invest in the food industry. I think of all investors, whether they are domestic or foreign, for each investor, that if they invest in the food industry sector, especially a line of financial incentives to develop this sector. We're a country that exports over four billion dollars to agriculture in the food industry. This potential is much higher, but we need to develop and process fruits and processed vegetables and processed cereals into other semi-products and final products, because there is no development without it. We say that our participation in GDP is 8% to 9% depending on the year. We need to be less involved in basic agricultural production, and the food industry is much higher. That's how we're gonna solve our problem with the food industry. Despite this financial support that the government has predicted, we need to open the market. People, we're a country that has seven million inhabitants. The food industry was designed for a market of at least 22 million inhabitants. It's like in one car, which is like this, weaker foundry, insert a 3,000-cub engine, so it's gonna fall apart sooner or later. It was the Serbian food industry after the loss of the 22 million population market. Imagine the situation, if you want to start any factory and turn on the power, you produced 1,000 or 5,000 tons, they're so designed, that at any time you have to spend the same amount of energy, and that's why you have bigger costs, because you don't have a market anymore. That's why we started opening up Turkey's food industry markets for beef, for the sunflower oil sector. Here's an exclusive, if anyone's interested, on April 14th, inspectors from the ESMA Agency are coming to Serbia to do control of Serbian processing facilities in the meat sector to open Serbia's market for the Gol Bay market, the Emirat market, Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Gulf, which is the market that has the highest potential for payment, and we really need it. We need it in order to be able to place, in addition to these markets that we have opened, Egypt for wheat, Turkey for beef, sunflower oil, the EU market with which we are most developing, the Euro-Asian Union market. Do not forget that a new agreement was reached a few days ago with representatives of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia, to open this market for other agricultural products and non-tariff food products. We'll work on this together with the rest of the ministries. We don't do this with the food industry, I hope we have everyone's support for this. We'll hardly be able to transfer agriculture in this video game from level two to level three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52933	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52934	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Risticevic, to answer your question about the city of Belgrade, the situation in the city in 2013 and to compare to the situation at the Serbian state level then and now. So at the end of the mandate of Dragan Gilas, the total commitment of the city of Belgrade, total debt to the city of Belgrade, when you add public enterprises and city municipalities, was 1.2 billion euros. Belgrade's budget deficit was slightly above 20%. To remind citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, only pregnant women and families of social protection institutions, schools and kindergartens, hundreds of millions of dinars were owed. At the same time, companies and companies owned by Dragan Gilas were growing, earning more and more and more clearly, unfortunately, I don't have that diagram here, you can see that the city of Belgrade went down and fell from year to year, and as it grew parallelly in profit, in profits and in the revenues of Dragan Gilas. This shows how much he cared for the city of Belgrade, how much he cared for the citizens of Belgrade, and how he cared for his private pocket. Let me remind you, you only remember the underground containers. So, a thousand and a few underground containers that don't look anything like anything, where six million euros of city money was invested in a company that doesn't even exist and went bankrupt. The cost and decision of Dragan Gilas paid for the citizens of Belgrade. All you can think of is the Pionir City. So, the pioneer town where we grew up, where the kids grew up, he took that pioneer town, made it a place to organize Big Brother, instead of having fun there, to learn, to educate, he and his firm made money out of it. That is enough to say, again, about the way he took care of both the city of Belgrade and the children and the citizens of Belgrade. Just remember, the so-called "Trasia in New Belgrade", which someone made 500,000 euros, the city of Belgrade invested in it, only the wind blew, took away the replica of Terrazi, but also took 500,000 euros from the Belgrade city budget, due to one bad decision by Dragan Gilas. Remember the purchase of Solaris buses, 200 buses that were paid by bus for over 200,000 euros and the same Icarbus buses, the domestic factory in Zemun made 30 or 40,000 euros less, so 200 buses, that is 8m euros direct damage to the budget and to the budget of the city of Belgrade, for the citizens of Belgrade, but one of them benefited. Not to mention Kaff's trams, which have been paid for one tram of 2.3m euros. For almost twice as much money, the city of Debrecin acquired the same trams from the same manufacturer. So that's how I can talk for hours and hours, and that tells you how someone, someone in this case Dragan Gilas, is aiming to make himself and his companies rich, and at the expense of the citizens of Belgrade. When you look at the city of Belgrade today, which is completely consolidated, which became the city of cranes, the city of cranes, at the time it was not so. When you look at "Belgrade on Water", a project they laughed at and said would never happen, that the wasteful imagination of Alexander Vukic, of the ugliest part of Belgrade, we created the largest construction site in this part of Europe, started our construction industry. You have every day, and when you look from Brank's bridge and from Gazela you see how much the construction site is going on, over 1,500 workers work every day on that site, every day earning their bread, and this is a picture and opportunity of Serbia today compared to Serbia 2010, 2011, 2012. When you look at our country and every macroeconomic indicator at this point, I'm not saying everything is ideal. So, it remains a difficult situation, but we are certainly on track to raise the quality of life of Serbian citizens year by year, raising the standard of living. In 2013, our country's unemployment rate was 25.9%. So, every fourth Serb was not employed. Today, that unemployment rate is about 12%, so almost two times smaller than it was in 2013. It is still high, but therefore, honourable MPs, every day we fight for new jobs, for new factories, for our young people to stay in this country, to find their future here, not to travel and go to Australia, Canada, America and wherever. When you look at the growth rates when Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic led Serbia, these are the growth rates negative, 3.1 in 2009, minus 3.1, and in 2010, it was around zero, so 2011 again minus. We now have stable growth rates from year to year. Last year 4, 3, 4, 4 feet of our GDP growth. One of the largest in Europe, among the five or six countries growing quickly in Europe, including the Republic of Serbia last year. If you look at the participation of our public debt in GDP, it was 77, 78 2014 as a result of the completely wrong policy of the people who then led the Republic of Serbia, where they owed from year to year and that social peace, as they called it, was maintained by borrowing generations that came. We stopped this public debt ferry and today the public debt is 50.1% compared to GDP. The Mastricht, therefore, is a standard and the EU is 60%. So that's the part we did right, just thinking about generations to come and about our children having no problem with high interest, large loans and large debts that Dragan Gilas and the people who were with him at the time in power. So every macroeconomic indicator today is better than it was five, six or seven years ago. If you look at the total foreign direct investment, last year over three million euros. The factories are opening up in every city in our country. We try to make every young and every older person an opportunity to earn their money in our country, and that is a policy we will not give up on. It is a vision of Alexander Vukic, who was launched as Prime Minister in 2014. It is a policy that this government continues, where we are fighting for a better standard of living, for bigger salaries, for everyone who wants to work in Serbia to work that opportunity and get that opportunity, and to forget, but we can never completely forget the pictures of the Pionir city where, instead of children, we had during Dragan Gilas "Big Brother", to forget the huge debts and huge deficits left to us by Dragan Gilas and similar to him, but to deal with today our country, the future of this country, our cities, our villages, and, what Mr Nedimovic said, to solve problems that no one has solved for a long time, but to look into the future and to anyone who wants to find their future to be better and better every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52935	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52936	Thank you. The ministers spoke, but I would like to try to conclude somehow, the honourable MPs. It is my impression, and I share it with the citizens of Serbia, during the campaign "Future of Serbia", initiated by the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, to talk to the citizens, to report to them, to hear what they think, to see what further we should do for each municipality, for every city, for every local community, somehow my overall impression is that we are meeting, and I think you will agree with me in that, in a complete time of absurdity, in a time absurde where we need to spend our time, my energy to clarify things that are truly amazing. We need to answer to people who tell us, for example. about the rule of law, and these people who speak to us and teach us the rule of law, these are the same people who changed the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, without even one public debate, without having sent it to the Venice Commission, to whom they are so much called today. These are the people who cleaned up 840 judges in one single day just because they were not with them on the party key and on the principle of party resemblance. These people today have the cheeks to talk to us about the rule of law and how when they return to power, they will establish the rule of law, and we should answer, we who have a public debate on the much smaller amendments to the Constitution that is longer than a year, which we are going for two rounds of consultation with the Venice Commission, which no judge, has replaced anyone in the judiciary. We haven't touched anyone in independent institutions. We haven't changed anything, starting with the Rules of Procedure in this House, the Rules of Procedure that you respect, and because of the respect of this Rules of Procedure and the existence of such Rules of Procedure as they have brought, they are boycotting parliament today. So it's that absurd. We are told by people about freedom of the media, people who, by name and last name, have been identified as people who, I quote Verica Barac, have captured the media. So then Verica Barac said: "The media in Serbia are trapped, and the government has established control over the media through Srdjan Shaper and Dragan Gilas." He goes on to say, "The government with such successful media control leaves no possibility for basic democratic procedures." Also said Verica Barac, this was particularly interesting to me, given the violent invasion of RTS. Verica Barac says in this report: “RTS is not a public service, but a service of parties and ruling elites.” These people are telling us about freedom of the media today? They go in violently on RTS and release her? Well, they're amazing absurds. They're really amazing absurds. These people tell us about Kosovo and Metohija? They are the great patriots, the people who removed the issue of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN and placed it under the authority of the EU, the people who acted in 2010 on the International Court of Justice's view that Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence by Pristina is not contrary to international law, to which Pristina is today called? This was done by Vuk Jeremic, leader of the Alliance for Serbia, a man who today transfers to Aleksandar Vukic to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue because Aleksandar Vukic was able to put the Kosovo and Metohija issue on the agenda again, to hear Serbia's voice. These are the people who talk about Kosovo and Metohija, about what kind of patriots they are, and that we traitors, people who, on the 15-year anniversary of the Martian pogrom over Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, wanted to block the president of the Republic of Serbia, allowed consciously or unconsciously, I only sincerely hope that it is unconscious, that all the world media, instead of talking about the 15-year-old Pogrom Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, about the burning of churches and monasteries, cultural treasures not only of the Serb people, but under the protection of UNESCO, world cultural heritage, burned, broken by Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, the persecution and killing of Serbs. They blew it all up, that day there was nothing to hear about it because they had been rampaging all day in front of the Belgrade presidency. These people say I'm a patriot. When you're a patriot, you didn't speak out loud that day about what happened 15 years ago, but by doing what you did, you covered Pristina. I don't know how Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci can thank them, that day, people probably didn't believe in happiness, that day was not about 15 years of pogroms, but that they were trying to block the legitimately elected president of the Republic of Serbia. I also found it interesting, but all in line with this, Ms. Vesena Cerneva, the deputy director of the European Foreign Affairs Council, wrote on Twitter after meeting with Gilas and Jeremic, tweeted a woman - opposition in Serbia, so she put a photo with them, worried about the economy and civil liberties, much less about Kosovo. These people talk here that patriots go to Brussels and the only impression they leave is that they are concerned about the economy, people who have left 26% unemployment, 51% of youth unemployment, are concerned about the economy today, but are far less concerned about Kosovo. These people are giving us a lecture today. We today need to separate our time and energy, rather than work on structural reforms, job creation, public administration reform, the rule of law, we need to explain to the citizens, remind them of the absurdities we are talking about. People tell us about Europe, European values, which in the Alliance for Serbia have people who organize military camps for children, who threaten, insult, physically attack women, people who fully signify equality between fascism and antifascism. So Sergei Trifunović, the great leader of the Movement of Free Citizens, says – both leftist and rightist care to have railways, roads, judiciary that works, the education that works, and now whether he has a picture of Draža Mihailovic, Dimitri LJotic or Broz or I don't know, Koce Popovic, it's a completely irrelevant thing. A man says that in Kragujevac where the Ljotics helped the Germans collect the children to shoot them. Is that a non-essential thing? No, it will never matter in Serbia, and you talk about whatever values you want. People talk about an efficient administration that couldn't register addresses to people who couldn't bring in those post terminals, that the man who comes to the counter, when he gets some confirmation, and he has to pay 30 dinars, if he has a card he can't pay here, he's waiting for the second row in the post office or the bank, so he's coming back, and he's waiting again to hand over that payment, they're telling us today about an efficient administration. Now these are absurd absurds, and it's amazing that these people have the cheeks at all after all they've done and everything they haven't done for the citizens, to talk about what kind of Serbia they're going to create just to regain power. We must, it is our obligation, it is one of the important things for Serbia, that we always and constantly remind Serbian citizens of these absurdities and these things, so that it does not happen again, and that we also put it aside and that we are doing our jobs and we think every day about what we have done for each individual citizen of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52937	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. In two minutes, my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52938	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who worked in IMT, I look forward to incentives for tractors, primarily the production of new tractors. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that we have searched and that what the people suspect will not happen. The people are unhappy, first of all, that Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas were not brought to justice by the prosecution. The people also ask how much violence does Bosko Obradovic have to do, so that Zagorka Dolovac will remember to bring him in, that is, to be prosecuted by the court? There's a break-in at a police station in Guca. They're talking about dictatorship, tell me they broke into the U.S. police station like this, would you get out of it? Also, get into RIK. A stone in the Assembly, a microphone pull in the Assembly. Driving a truck to the police, a hard crime. Hitting the chairman of the Administrative Board, breaking into RTS, along with the saws and with Gilas. They probably thought it was a RTS sawmill. So, they're pushing for freedom of the media, and in doing censorship, to make media control, Gilas is a joke to that, when ten television channels owner and two cable televisions get into state radio television, then the abuse of media and the tendency to re-establish media control, not through advertising, but by violence. Also, Dragan Gilas went to the U.S. I have to ask them to know that democracy is not an imperial product that can be introduced from the United States, which can become private property like Dvori, as DS, cannot be the private property of Dragan Gilas. Democracy is created from within. They're avoiding debate today, and they're complaining about a lack of debate. I also have to tell them that in a conflict with ourselves, we must be losing ourselves. The seeds of discord have always made a record contribution in Serbia, and so I call on them to return, call on their minds and try to overcome some possible misunderstandings together. I warn you that they plan not only to boycott the election, but to prevent other people from going to the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52939	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52940	Dear members of the government, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, I will ask a few questions. The first question I intend to ask, with a preliminary explanation and explanation, concerns the Ministry of Education. I see, Minister Sarcevic probably had to leave early because of his earlier commitments, but I hope that one of the government's representatives will be able to answer that question here with the prime minister. In fact, back in Serbia, there are fewer and fewer elementary schools. The trend has recently started to change positively back a year or two due to the population policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and there is a slight increase in newborn children in general, and this means that there will be more students in primary schools. What we are interested in from JS is whether the Government plans, or the Ministry of Education, normally through the Government, to take into account the following facts in some subsequent amendments to the Education Law, according to the current regulations of primary and secondary schools, pay material costs, pay social benefits, pay jubilee rewards on the burden of local self-government. Since especially in those environments that are less developed local self-government, where the inflow of funds is not so big that they can pay all these costs, is the government planning to take you over, and the Ministry of Education, in order to help those primary and secondary schools in some way, especially in rural areas, where the economic situation is that there is not enough inflow into the budget of local self-government to be able to pay those costs in time, so it comes very often, I say this based on indicators that I have, that many schools are blocked by lawsuits of education workers for paying travel expenses, for paying jubilee rewards, etc? On the other hand, the question also concerns the Ministry of Education – are we thinking, going back for a while, planning staff, especially in secondary education and colleges, that our young people are schooling for those interests that this country is looking for, which it needs, and not just to get a degree in high school or some college that, unfortunately, only serves as a diploma tomorrow, as proof that someone has finished some high school or college somewhere, but in that acquired education and calling, unfortunately, will never be able to be employed? I think you should seriously think that way and have, like, a solution in some legal proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52941	Thank you. The word of the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52942	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that, you know, and when I represent the exposés here, the government of Serbia programme, this whole team of governments has said unequivocally that education is one of the top priorities of this government's work, and I can say that I am truly very pleased with all of what we have achieved so far and we have additional, quite ambitious plans and we will continue to invest. I would also like to thank all the MPs who voted for the Science Fund Act. For the first time in Serbia, we established a Science Fund that has been working since January of this year. We have allocated some 500 million dinars in the budget for this year only to finance the Science Fund, that is, the project and that the Ministry of Education will call, or the Science Fund will call first in June this year. We are already negotiating with the World Bank and we are talking with the EU about additional financial support for the Science Fund, so I hope, I expect that by next 2020, we will even increase the budget of the Science Fund 10 times, from 500 million dinars to five billion dinars. I think it will be a strong signal for our young people to do science, stay in colleges, stay at universities, stay at institutes and go back to Serbia. All along with being really very proud of what we've become, and last week, a public statement was finally given by CERN, only 23 full-fledged CERN members, which will mean a lot to our young people who do research and science. These are not even some EU member states, it is not a single country, a country in the region that was in the former Yugoslavia. So, it is neither Slovenia nor Croatia, they are still observers. I think this is a great success for Serbian education and for Serbian science. We also invest a lot in reforming primary education. This is what you were talking about. To me, I said, I'm extremely glad that we finally started, just when we're talking about it, we're preparing our young people for the future. We have introduced into the basics of school and entrepreneurial education, we have introduced finally and financial literacy, we hope that more and more of them will want, as is the case in Israel, to open their own companies, not wait for someone to give them a job, to open their own companies. That is why we have since 1 October introduced these tax reliefs for newly created companies by young people. It's actually going to be the pillar of our economy in the future. Entrepreneurship, flexible, agile small and medium-sized enterprises. So, compared to large, strong foreign investors, we have a strong sector of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. We also invest 100m euros only in infrastructure for entrepreneurs, for innovation, start – a company. I really expect that in the next three to four years the citizens of Serbia, especially young people, will see the effects of this. I am pleased to say, I am sorry, Minister Djukic Dejanovic is in New York at the UN session on sustainable development, Minister Sarcevic had to go and join the president about some obligations, but I am pleased to tell you that in the first two months of this year, we had a 10% increase in born children compared to two months of the previous year. We still can't say that this is a trend and that thanks to everything we've done, in terms of incentives, financial incentives to the family with children, but I hope that this is a good indicator, that everything that the President of the Republic has talked about is the importance of having more children, i.e. free of all this if we don't have anyone to leave it in Serbia, that all this is starting to produce results. In that sense, I can guarantee you that we will pay more attention to rural environments and schools in rural areas and that we will see what is constantly critical of us... You remember when President Vucic was prime minister and said that there should be no more elementary schools in Serbia with squatters and totally unconditional toilets for our youngest, when they told him that we deal with toilets and sewers, and then when I started digitising, they said – which is not what you do with sewers. Whatever you do, they want me to do the other one. I'm proud that we deal with both sewers and digitization. We will pay more attention and invest additional funds for our youngest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52943	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52944	My next question concerns energy and I'm asking it to Minister Antic. Back in the last few years, we are pleased to find, not only us from the Unique Serbia, but all the citizens in this country, that the energy situation in Serbia is stable, that the electricity supply is stable, that gas supply is stable, and on that behalf I congratulate you, Minister, that you are a very successful minister in this area unlike some of your predecessors when they had huge problems in the country's energy situation. What interests us, and probably interests all citizens of Serbia, what is the current situation with the South Stream, the pipeline? Are we close to realisation, given that there are both such and such news, because I am sure that by realising this project, by building the South Stream flows not only will Serbia be more stable in gas supply, but probably, in addition to what the state will earn, gas for end consumers will be, let's say, not cheaper, but have a stable price and citizens will not be afraid to collect? On the other hand, I would also ask the Minister of Agriculture to Mr Nedimovic, who does not listen to me, which is whether the Ministry of Agriculture will take certain steps in time not to come, as every year there is, to disagree between producers and raspberries and other strawberry products, i.e. to know already some approximate price that producers will get, so that there will be no roadblocks, protests, etc.? On the other hand, it's already the end of March, and in a few days it starts in April, when the opportunities for various storms, city clouds, etc., are the Ministry taking steps to better supply local self-government with anti-urban missiles, better paying for those people working on these anti-urban systems? On the other hand, to make sure that all of this doesn't happen after we treat it, we better stop it. We in the JS think that it's always better to work, to get ahead of things, than to pay compensation for damages, etc., to farmers who are damaged in God's name, to some accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52945	The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52946	Dear Mr. Petrovic, the President-in-Office, I thank you for this first question, concerning the raspberries, there is no more trouble at this time than this sector is. I have a few facts to make, first of all, for the public, because very often it tries to involve this topic in a political whirlwind, which is that in Serbia in 2011, there were 13,500 hectares planted by raspberries, mainly in the Western Serbia area, in 2018, we have 23,000 acres under the plantings of raspberries. Almost two times, with a hectare yield in Western Serbia's space falling. There's a few reasons for that, but let's not go in now and not burden the whole story. We had a few years related to the Malinary sector 2013, 2014, 2015, had good prices, a good demand, but because of this, I say, mass uplifting in those parts and from those people who did not deal with it, we have a situation today that we have 59,000 owners who have less than one hectare under malin plantations, and they are mostly in the space of several districts, which are conditionally called Western Serbia. A very difficult problem, this year the situation will not be more spectacular than the previous year from the perspective of market research. But what's very important is, through the National Malina Council, which we formed in the previous years, where we work with both manufacturers and buyers, we finally came up with the right facts of what these are, what is the price of the producer. Don't forget that we have one thing that's changed, the labour price has jumped in the last few years, so the cost of a agricultural producer that he has per hectare of raspberries is much higher than it was before, so they go up to 110, 113 dinars per hectare today, if you get eight tons per hectare. I'm not a Wizard of Oz, and I fully respect the rules of the market economy, the state can't guarantee anyone's price, but the state has taken everything in the previous period to reduce the cost of agricultural production with a repromaterial, with mineral fertilisers, through the purchase of fuel. This year we intend to adopt two laws that should help resolve this problem, it is a law on regulation of the agricultural products market and amending the Encouragement Act. How are we supposed to deal with this law first? That we know exactly who the buyers are, that we have a registries register and who's going to pass, like the travel agencies deposit for that ransom, and not that we have those who buy out the raspberries, and then, with that hard time selling them, they can't charge for it. We've had cases like this. Not just for raspberries, all other fruit cultures. The law should be found in front of MPs after a public debate that should take place these days. As far as the incentive law is concerned, we must also introduce a reorganisation, that is, to fund support for those agricultural productions outside the area where they are best successful and developed. Is the aspect of tradition, i.e. the existence of agricultural producers, climate conditions, geographical conditions etc. To get back to this thing about anti-urban protection. We definitely need a new law on anti-building protection. We'd have a better synergy between local communities and a state entity, but not to wait for that new law now, what we're about to do. We applied two kinds of measures for 2018. The first is the purchase of automated anti-building stations. We in Serbia have 13 radar centres. The most burdened radar centre is the Kolubara Radar Centre, which covers several districts, and there we had the most damage, primarily because of the urban clouds that are coming, to say once again because of the public, from the space of Republika Srpska, the clouds do not know the borders. We once had this system of coordination in a single system of anti-urban protection of SFRY, now we don't have it. A joint meeting of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Republika Srpska will be held on Tuesday. It will be held in Sremska Mitrovica and the only and main topic will be the anti-urban protection system. We intend to make a common system, that colleagues from Republika Srpska, from their anti-urban stations, defend our space and that we have this coordination and we will agree together on financial support for it. As for the purchase of an automatic anti-building station, the first 28 automatic anti-building stations have already been built. Phase one is over. That amount of work was 308 million dinars. They are located in literally space that is most exposed to urban clouds. Now, there's one thing, you can't just physically protect yourself. It's not even that anti-urban protection 100%. Not even S300, says Minister S400, but in this anti-urban system, we can protect 50-60%. That's why we've changed the insurance policy from the city. So the most endangered environments, five of them are, of the city clouds now have 70 percent back from the insurance premium. He can't do it without each other. I hope that in the next two three years, we can arrange this system completely. What does automatic anti-urban protection mean? There are no more shooters to go – hello, Pozega, so let's call the shooter there, until he gets to the scene, so we never know when the rocket goes off what happened to her. We'll have a fully synchronised system across the radar centers. We'll have software systems that are completely complete at every radar center. It'll fire the missiles out of him. We'll have permanent proof of what the score is, not to look up, whether we've guessed or not. This is the 21st century. Using state-of-the-art technologies, we will come to the conclusion that in the next two three years we will fully protect the territory of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing to say, it's about raspberries, the government of the Republic of Serbia will never run away from this problem, but people need to know that the market is the only one that defines the price. Just as they must know in other parts of agricultural production. For example, we had pig producers who had good prices for a year and a half, 170, 180, 200 dinars. No one called to ask me what to do with the prices. Now it's a tough situation, 120 dinars, but now everybody's calling and asking what we're gonna do. He says, "Can the state help?" Not only when it's a good price, when the difference of 50 dinars is in the producer price to the sale price. It is not only possible for consumers to think, it must sometimes be left for black days, but the republican goods reserves will, following the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia next week, enter into the parity exchange, the exchange of corn pigs, about six and a half thousand tonnes. So we're going to trade some 40,000 toys for corn by the parity of 145 dinars. The same thing we'll do for cattle, somewhere in the parity of 240, 245 dinars. We take care of market instability, but with this law on the regulation of the agricultural products market, we'll make some more tools that we can react to in crisis situations. I don't know, I just don't mean to be too rude, but I have to say, the best known colleagues from the SPS Parliament Club, if they're listening to me, they're someone who's advocated in their past the Central-Plan Management System. The best way to understand what I'm talking about is because in 2000 it wasn't right, five-year-old plans weren't worth guaranteed prices, but someone on the street wanted to introduce a market system of economy, bring Labus to ruin by liberalising a complete system of protection for Serbian agriculture and wanted a market economy. Here, now we have a market economy. Now what? Now we want the other one. People, we have to say how things are. The situation is difficult, but the government of the Republic of Serbia will always find a way to help agricultural producers, but always making sure that the market is the only one that defines the price and we can't be a little bit in self-government socialism, and a little in capitalism, as it suits us. Here, for example, and that ends it, so I don't torture people here, Mr. Petrovic, thank you for asking, but don't torture people. All right, just give it up, and I'll keep talking. Can't do that, guys. Let's open up a little bit. Let's close up the trade limits. I know it's hard sometimes when there's imports of certain goods in agriculture, but also if we're selective, and only we say when it suits us, we'll let go, when we don't fit we'll close the border, so that's what they'll do to us tomorrow. Then how are we going to export cattle and then how are we going to have a price higher by 50 euro cents than we had, 20 years was 1.9. What market are we gonna have? People are getting a little more complicated than they seem at first sight. We're not running away from dialogue in any area, but we can't do that today, when we're fit to close the border, and tomorrow when I'm fit to open it. Where's that? Can someone explain to me where this planet exists? If he finds a solution, brother dear, it means he's got better and smarter, go ahead, people, then you're doing this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52947	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52948	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear colleagues, Mr Petrovic made several comments on the energy sector's account and asked a certain question, I would like first of all to point out that our energy sector is actually going through a serious transition, that what was crucial for this government was that in this period of transition of our energy sector, we contain full stability and security of supply to all key energies, both in the economy, so citizens. I think we've been very successful in the past. We were successful in moments when we faced truly incredible problems. I would remind you of the floods, when we had the repair of the collages, and we know ourselves that 50% of our energy is generated from coal produced in the Colubary, and electricity is produced in Obrenovac. We were able to react quickly. We have always managed to ensure that our total electricity, as well as the total energy system, are stable. It's all due to one good work in our energy companies, one professional work. I am extremely proud and I believe this government, which in the past few years all of Serbia's energy companies seem to be doing a positive job for the first time in Serbia. For years, some of them have been recognizable for the generation of major losses, which the Republic of Serbia's budget has been handing over in a later period. Since 2015, all the energy companies in Serbia, I repeat, are doing positive business and I think it is significant and that this has affected all the overall economic parameters in Serbia and that it was part of the success of the financial reforms through which the government, headed by then-President Mr. Vukic, implemented this ship towards a more successful economy. We have a serious investment cycle in the energy series right now. I want to remind you once again that unfortunately for all the things our country and society went through in the late '80s, the early 1990s, and then the two-thousands, we had one serious lack of investment in the energy sector. As the best evidence for this, it should serve the fact that the last major power plant was launched on the network in 1991 and since then nothing has happened in decades. Now, almost three decades after that, we have big projects, we have big investments and very ambitious plans for that one trunk that we had to quickly arrive and, in an energy sense, to be energy safe in the long term. For this very reason I repeat, I have the great support of the entire government, the President, the President of the Republic, that we are rapidly and efficiently developing energy projects because they are the key to the stability of our overall economy. We are currently working a big block in Kostolc, the 350 megawatt power, an investment of over 700 million dollars. He should be online by the end of 2020. We are working on a defunct facility in Obrenovac, which will ensure long-term stability and production of these blocks. We're doing a modernization of Gjerdap, Zvornik, preparing for the modernisation of Tent A1, A2 and Gerdap. The Panchev heat power plant, 200 megawatts, is being built, which should be ready somewhere in the third quarter of 2020. It's a Trans-Balkan transfer corridor, it's a modernization of the refinery, a deep processing plant, a 300m-euro investment and a whole other set of projects that I repeat, energy in this investment sense puts infrastructure first, second place, in the area of these investments. When it comes to gas, this issue is particularly sensitive to our overall energy security. You know we're a country that's about 80% of its gas needs out of imports. And objectively, that should be added to the fact that our consumption and consumption of gas is growing as a consequence of, above all, industrial growth and development, I want to do a little digression here. Each of the investors who come to the Republic of Serbia has only a few questions for us in making their investment decisions. Of course, the pores of political stability and the incentives the state gives, it is interested in what infrastructure it is, whether it is a good supply of electricity and whether it has gas. If there is no gas, the location and the destination lose attractiveness, and these investors are looking for other places. For that very reason, we have a huge rise in gas consumption. For example, in 2016, this consumption was a billion and 750 million, in 2017 two billion and in 2018 two billion and 150 million. So we've increased gas consumption in Serbia by about 20-25% over the last few years. When I return now to the fact that we are importing that gas, and on the other hand that the only gas supply direction we have is that direction from Russia through Ukraine, through Hungary to Serbia, puts us in a position that with great care, we follow all these global developments and, above all, possible disturbances in gas transit through Ukraine and that for this reason, we are rapidly developing new gas projects that will make Serbia energy safe. In that sense, we have several projects that are priority. One interconnection is Nis-Dimitrovgrad, the other is an interconnection with Romania, given that Romania is very fast, due to good results in the Black Sea, when it comes to gas production, it can become a serious gas exporter and that key, that is this large pipeline you have called "South Stream", however, it is no longer "South Stream". "South Stream" was a project developed by 2014, it was stopped in December 2014 and as such a project no longer exists. Russia and Turkey later set out to develop the "Turkish Stream" project, about 2017. The "Turkish Stream" is a project primarily related to the supply of Turkish gas and it connects Russia and Turkey with an underwater pipeline under the Black Sea, i.e. at the bottom of the Black Sea and is a project that is the capacity of two 15.75 billion pipes, one for the needs of the Turkish market and the other for the need of the European market. This restored thought and restored the focus of interest here in Serbia, Bulgaria, Hungary, the possibility of a portion of that gas being transited through Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary and central European gas storage facilities, somewhere along the route of the former "South Stream", but to a certain extent less capacity. We've done a lot of work on this over the past few years. I have to say, I'm proud of what we've done more than we've talked about, and I think we're in a very good position today, when that project is under way. We have implemented some serious activities on this project, implemented all phases of capacity rental, as well as in Bulgaria, and commercially this project has been demonstrated through the needs of companies that have leased capacity on this new transit route. We've realized a whole other set of measures related to obtaining permits. The project is being developed by Gastrans, which is now in the phase of obtaining all necessary permits for the construction of the pipeline, from preparatory works, via laying down pipes, construction of line infrastructure and all other necessary compressor facilities. They went through that regulatory section. I would remind you, given the fact that Serbia is a member of the Energy Community and that it is on a European path, that we have defined as an important factor in developing this project in Serbia through the respect of the Third Energy Package. For this very reason, Gastrans received an exemption for the project from certain provisions of the Third Energy Package, but with respect, let me say, a whole series of other measures that the Third Energy Package defines, we did so through the exemption from our regulator and by obtaining opinions from the Secretary of the Energy Community. If you remember, the secretariat gave a conditional positive opinion on the project, and then the project was finally resolved by our agency. There are still some additional alignments that we will be working with the Energy Community, so that the project is fully in line with European legislation, is primarily related to the liquidity of the domestic market and the separation of "Srbigas" by energy performance, and these are some of the priorities that we will address in 2019. What is crucial at this point, the commercial reasons and the economic reasons for this project exist. When it comes to regulatory conditions, we've given all these key regulatory elements. When it comes to licenses to perform work, they are in the stage of supply. When financing this project, it's secured. So I can tell you with a lot of optimism that this project is going well. We expect the first works on the project to be started in April of this year and we expect that the largest part of the pipeline, when I say the liner, I mean without the compressor stations, both in Bulgaria and Serbia, and the compressor stations will be set up in 2020 and 2021, means that this liner section of the pipeline will be implemented to the most extent by the end of 2019. It is a very ambitious plan, but given that there is a great experience of companies that will participate in the realisation of that pipeline, this plan is realistic and we will work very intensively on it and of course this Parliament will always be adequately informed about all the activities on the project. The project is important for Serbia, it will provide, I repeat, Serbia's full energy security, we will have a secure gas supply, and on the other hand, Serbia will come to a far better position on the gas business map, as a country through which transit will take place and as a country that will benefit from gas transit. Once again, thank you, Mr. Petrovic, for asking. I repeat, this parliament will always be timely and absolutely informed, as we do on the committee responsible, which is a place where all plans in the field of energy are fully open and fully justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52949	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of our session today, I want to thank you, in your name and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because you are so patient, that you are so persistent and that you are really honest with each other, that you do not allow yourself to be carried by emotion and to respond to those thugs for all that they have done here and what they are doing at the moment. You know, I want you to know this, but in the first place I want the citizens of Serbia, one of the thugs who waited for us, who tried to stop the MPs and government members from doing their job and being in front of the citizens of Serbia, I mean Miroslav Aleksic, boycotting the Assembly, but he didn't boycott this time either. He came in neatly and reported that he was there, to get travel expenses, to get a daily allowance, to be paid by Serbian citizens for what stands in the stairwell, which tries to stop honest people from doing their job, which is a violent activity, with the only thing they know. So they just can't resist, not to kidnap wherever they get the chance and take whatever opportunity they get. Citizens of Serbia, you know, today you paid him to stand on the stairs, to scare people, to land people, to lie, to spit, to insult, today you paid him to be in front of the Assembly, and he neatly signed up to take your money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52951	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52952	I thank the ministers for their exhaustive answers. I'd just like to introduce Mrs. Prime Minister to one piece of information. She said back in the last year there are 10% more newborn children in Serbia than last year. I want the Prime Minister to just meet you, but you don't listen to me, it doesn't matter, you'll read a stenogram, that since JS in Jagodina took over local self-government since 2004, because of its population policy, which she then introduced, every year every year the number of newborn children is increasing and I can tell you that at this point Jagodina is the second city in the number of newborn children compared to the number of inhabitants. So just so you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52953	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Grozdana Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52954	Dear Chairman, thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have a question for Mrs. Brnabic as Prime Minister, as Milan Krkobic is the president of the PUPS of Serbia, we have already proposed, our head of Parliament's group has proposed to discuss the issue and the reorganisation of the PIO Fund, as well as the technology-innovation fund that would be established. Please, this is an extremely serious issue, extremely important for young people, because the question of how pensions will be paid out of the budget, in five years there will be both robotics and the IT sector and everything else, you know, the workforce will be reduced. We should consider increasing pensioners and paying for pensions that young people will have to think about how and how we will be paid for and from what in the future. President Milan Krkobic suggested that all relevant, all relevant factors, that means representatives of the government, political party presidents, trade unions, all relevant factors take part in the meeting and propose and give their suggestions. I ask you to really think about it, we are very aware that you are in a great deal of trouble and that the state really has a lot of work to do, but this really needs to be considered, I am asking you to take the most beautiful steps to organise this proposal, so that it can be realized. Thank you very much. (The People's MP Miladin Ševarlic seeks a violation of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52955	Comrade Chevrlic, instead of showing me your Rules of Procedure, it would be better if you read Article 216. Rules of Procedure, then try. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52956	Dear People's MPs, I just want to assure you that we're already thinking about this, I had a slightly different concept, but it would certainly be my pleasure to sit down and see how we can approach this issue. So on March 7th, we sent our delegation, they were people from my office, they were people from the economy, they were people from the Ministry of Finance in Norway. That's what we agreed when she was Prime Minister of Norway here in Serbia in July. We sent them. I asked them to leave and take a special look at how the Norwegian oil fund works. It is practically their pension fund, which absolutely does not depend on the budget which is the strongest pension fund in the world and one of the strongest investment funds in the world. So, we wanted to see how Norway began to exploit oil, when part of the oil revenue was allocated to a special fund used only for pensions, which it also used as an investment fund from which they further invested the money and then paid the money back to pensions. Of course, these had to be very low risk investments to avoid playing with pensioner money or future pensioners. I can tell you it was a very, very good visit. I've been thinking about watching how we can use all the money from our mining wealth, especially given that we have between 10% and 12% of the world's lithium reserves. If we use it wisely to separate the entire profit from it, production, semi-product or final product into our own special fund that will be something like the Norwegian oil fund. So we've been thinking, and I got a report from that visit last week, and we're going to watch with the Ministry of Finance how we can keep working on it and get ready. Realistically, I hope that 2021 will begin the construction of this chemical facility in Loznica by 2023. Since 2023, if the responsible government had to open up such a fund to cover all the challenges we have today with an unsustainable pension system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52957	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, a colleague of Grodana Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52958	I thank you very much, given that you've really thought about it and that you've had an understanding. Please, once again, I thank you very much and I'm glad, because I've been really long, especially as a pensioner, and I'm the second mother of children and I'm interested in my children, because of all the children who have in this world, that they have a secure future in terms of solidarity, because it's practically a fund of solidarity. They're bond relations, there's a lot to it, which is why the president insisted. He's one of the serious proposals and I thank you for hearing that, that you've already thought about it, that you went as a delegation. Please, most beautifully, since the minister is in the government, that you will discuss this together and that one truly positive decision will be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52959	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52960	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will have a few questions for the prime minister, defence minister, Mr Vulin and Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic. I would primarily ask Prime Minister Brnabic about the continuation of the digitalisation project, what are further plans and what are the projects concerning the education process and the new school year ahead? So, preparation for that, what's going to happen in that direction and that sense? They've already covered something for my colleagues and asked about the state's relationship with young people, young talents and scientists. I know that you have done a great deal for this year and a half on this plan, and especially in terms of improving innovative economy, improving the innovation technology sector and making hubs, technology parks and defining Serbia as a country and a state of knowledge and education. As for Minister Vulin, I want to ask him about the security situation in the country? On security challenges in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and to tell us more about the plans of the Serbian Army when it comes to further modernisation, given that the current government policy and him as a minister have been such that a lot of investment in new weapons, in the security of the country, in the security of our borders and, of course, in response to all the security challenges that exist in our country. For Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, the issue concerning Serbia's further progress, when it comes to Duing Business List of the World Bank and further breakthroughs and progress on our country's progress and the definition of further plans, how this will look in the future and how we will progress in this very important aspect of the functioning that affects the attraction of foreign direct investment and which affects the improvement and acceleration of the business environment in our country. I know that a delegation of ours is in Washington right now, but in a meeting with the World Bank representatives and the talks on promotions, the business environment and our positions, when it comes to the World Bank, they're not like some who here and you and the Prime Minister and the other ministers welcomed you with a transparent one, and they didn't try not to let you pass and get to this plenary room, they didn't go incognito, they didn't go as Dragan Gilas went, and neither does our embassy there, given that I stayed at a similar time in Washington for a few days. I read today and the news that a man met with assistants, assistant assistants, and allegedly some congressmen whose names we haven't even heard, so I would ask the prime minister to tell me something about whether a legal solution and a legal framework will be expected, when it comes to false news and the fight against such phenomena that generally affect the substance of our society and influence, of course, all of those positive processes that take place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52961	The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52962	We do not have much time left, honourable MP, you have asked me a question on my favorite subject, which is the reform of education and digitalisation in schools, why I think the absolute key to the long-term competitiveness and success of our society and our country. I am also pleased to say that we have introduced all primary schools within the framework of Serbia's academic network during the term of office of this government. If we had introduced programming in the fifth and sixth grade of elementary school, that we had trained all teachers, that we had great support for the economy, I had this opportunity to get them equipment. It's a process that supplies of equipment, which never stops, we still don't have enough equipment, we still don't have enough equipment in schools and we keep doing it. We have also introduced in elementary schools, since this school year as a pilot project of 2,000 digital classrooms and digital textbooks that also help teachers to draw materials closer to students in a more modern and interesting way and to make students more interactive in teaching. As far as secondary schools are concerned, we have even increased the number of specialized IT departments five times, as far as the university is concerned, 20% of the capacity has increased in technical schools and I have already said, we have provided 100m euros for infrastructure. I am particularly glad that in November of last year we started to build the Nis Science and Technology Park, that in April we were going to build another laboratory lamela at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis, and that by the end of this year the construction of the Novi Sad Science and Technology Park should be completed. And I'll remind you that by 2015, we didn't have a single science and technology park in Serbia. We will end this government's mandate with three scientific and technological parks. The Belgrade Science and Technology Park, which started working when Aleksandar Vukic was Prime Minister, which was 2015, Novi Sad Scientific and Technological Niš Scientific and Technological Park, and at least three other extraordinary research and development facilities in construction. Since 1 September of this year, we will connect 500 elementary schools to the fast internet to have all classrooms fast internet, allowing 10,000 digital classrooms. The idea is that, with the support of the European Investment Bank's loan, a project of related schools, by 2021 in Serbia, we have fully digital schools, which I think will be, in which we will certainly be one of the leaders in Europe. I think this is one of the things that we've invested most energy and time and money in and I'm absolutely proud of. As I say, I think this is one of the things that will mark this government's mandate and mark our long-term competitiveness ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52963	The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52964	Respected, without any doubt, the main security threat that comes to the Republic of Serbia is a threat launched from the KIM area, unconvicted terrorists who are now running temporary self-government institutions in Pristina. Completely unpredictable people who are free, not because they are innocent, but because witnesses of their crimes were killed. The policy of conditioning taxis, frequent incidents, attacks on the Serb population, causing conflict is the biggest security threat for the Republic of Serbia in general and for Serbs living in both the area of KIM and in general where Serbs live. All the policies of the Shiptar leadership are to challenge the incident, to challenge a conflict after which Serbia would be accused of overuse of force after which to call for the great powerful protector. That's all the policy of Shiptarian leadership. Everything they do, always take care of it, to challenge the use of force by the Republic of Serbia, its armies, its police, its security structures, and then hang on to help and see other people's children get killed for their goals. In other words, what else can be expected of uncondemned terrorists? Serbia's army will continue to modernise. Since 2012, when Aleksandar Vukic became defence minister and after that, as prime minister of the government, began to provide economic stability, the Serbian Army was not demolarised and she was a abandoned army that was before 2012, the army that was not allowed to say on the anniversary of NATO aggression that it was a NATO aggression, but had to keep quiet and talk about NATO actions, about NATO operations, which should not have called even the right name, let alone the strengthening and the equipment. The Serbian army, as you have seen, is stronger and richer by 14 moments 29 that are being remounted and modernised. We'll also have three new MI 17 helicopters, four new MI 35 helicopters. Five new HA145, 30 T72 tanks of modernized 30 BRDEM helicopters will also arrive. Serbia's military will modernise and work already to modernise its anti-aircraft KUB systems, modernising our Eagle plane. As you can see, we're making our army of Serbia much more powerful, much stronger, but not just that. We are working to make every member of the Serbian Army more satisfied, so our salaries are higher than they ever were. That's why the diaries were raised, which is why solidarity aid was introduced for the birth of a child, so additional food stamps were introduced for certain structures in our army and for certain generations, it was introduced, taken care of, in the first place, about each soldier. Our new ballistics kits have arrived, to boast and to rejoice that our soldiers will be protected. New uniforms have arrived, new boots have arrived. Serbia's army invests in military infrastructure so that we can have better accommodation and that when you see, and you know well, when calls for a reserve arrive, for those who need to help their country and be ready for their country, they come into an army that is safe, stable, modernised, army that can pay for their engagement, an army that can pay for their stay. Everything we haven't done in decades, we're finally doing. We're able to do it now. Now we can also pay compensation to the reservers, now we can provide accommodation, food, now we can pay the elders who will take care of them. It's the only way you have a strong army. It's the only way to have an army that will be able to guard its borders and keep peace. Serbia's army is able to provide Serbia with any dangers that can come from outside. But I must once again warn all Serbian citizens that the main threat is coming from within. The main threat comes from those who want to make Majdan in Belgrade, who want to fight us, who want to fight among themselves, who want to make ordinary, young people fight for their privileges and for their chance to rob Serbia again and do everything they did again. It's a major threat. The military can't answer that. To that I can answer that only the citizens of Serbia give and I hope that they will give it in the elections. I want to give it to the elections, in fair, democratic elections, as it has always been, at least since 2012, without any doubt. So, the greatest danger, the biggest security problem is an attempt to challenge a conflict between Serbs, between us. Everything else we can deal with, deal with it, and this ends with the citizens of Serbia and comes out by the elections. Today, there are no other people in parliament who should tell us about the world, but I'm afraid they don't have any other political ideas, that they don't have a program. What would they tell us? If they were here, as you know, they'd insult, they'd spit, they'd hate, they'd spit Wolfie in the first place, then his family, then they'd spit in the line. They wouldn't give us a single idea, they wouldn't tell us why to vote for them, they wouldn't tell us how to open up factories, how to attract investments, they wouldn't tell us how to make the army better, more prepared, more armed, they'd just bring out their hate, but they should be here and the voters would see what they're offering, and how they offer. It's a big accident for a people when they have to discuss internal conflicts all the time. We're not a divided society, and don't keep hearing that story about us being a divided society. What a divided society where 60% or 55% of people vote for one political group. What kind of shared society is that? So what's Germany, for example, where you have 30, 20, 30% for different political options. Well, is there a civil war with them? We are not in any way divided society we just have an aggressive, small number of very aggressive people who are willing to do anything to get their privileges back, to be protected again and to be able to rob again as they robbed. Nothing else, there's no other conflict. None of us are in conflict with people who think differently, it's healthy, it's good, it's useful, but how can you not be in conflict with people who attack the MPs, who are attacking the RTS, who are carrying motor saws, who are attacking the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia, who are calling for civil war, for conflicts, for Majdan, for tents, for Ukraine, for such people, you have to be in conflict, not by force, but by the power of political arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52965	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52966	Good evening, everyone. First, I think it's very important to know that we are one responsible government. You voted and voted all of what we have been doing all these years, and what is important to know, we fight every day for every investment, for every job and, ultimately, it shows one responsible budget, a stable budget, a reduced public debt, a reduced unemployment rate and our place on the Duing Business List of the World Bank, because that list is very important. Whenever anyone needs to come to Serbia to invest in our country, he first looks at, among other things, exactly the state of Duing's business list. So, we fought every moment and every day from one country that was during Tadic, Gilas and others, who would now be in charge, was somewhere last on that Duing business list and when no one lives wanted to come into our country to invest, we are today a country, for example, which is only after the construction permits of the eleventh in the world of 189 countries, as far as they're looking at. So, we work every day. At this moment, while we are here finishing parliamentary issues, a group from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Construction is in Washington. It is talking to representatives of the World Bank how to show what else we have done in the area, so a better business environment so that our position in the report in June month, which the World Bank will give as a new one, will be even better. So we sincerely hope that, as we have said, we will have an electronic Katastre by next year. That means we'll have an electronic building permit at some point, electronic plans, as well as an electronic cadastre. This means that there will be no more problems with the registration of ownership, but also the issue of other permits. Don't forget that on today we have over 40,000 construction sites. We had something under 1,000 construction sites in 2012, so I think we're on track to be one of the best countries in this part of Europe on the Duing Business List itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-0.u52967	Thank you. Since it is 19.00 hours now, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters. I thank you all for your participation. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
