ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-23-0.u67834	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. We move to a decision on proposals for putting on the agenda of this session of acts by emergency procedure. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds under Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure proposed that it be included in the agenda of the session of the point – Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the President of the Commission for State Aid Control. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 131 MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, on the same basis, proposed to be included in the agenda of the session point – Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of four members of the Commission's Board for State Aid Control. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 131 MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. This is about a review of the proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the President of the Commission for State Aid Control. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a list of candidates for the election of the President of the Committee for State Aid Control.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-23-0.u67835	I would like to remind you that the Law on State Aid Control adopted on 10 October 2019 in this Assembly, the application of this law begins on 1 January 2020, and this law has transferred the jurisdiction of the Commission to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia, which so far was within the Government, or the Ministry of Finance. I would like to thank the President for his understanding, given that it was a large and long selection procedure for members, i.e. the President of the Commission for the control of state aid and not by voting within a given deadline, would have practically entered into the non-implementation of this law. That is why we have implemented the full procedure under the responsibility of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Our task was to discuss the public competition, which was announced on 23 October 2019, in the "Official Messenger", in the daily "Politika", on the Serbian Parliament's website, as well as the Commission itself. The deadline for the delivery of data, i.e. the documentation of interested candidates, was 20 days and what conditions were, in addition to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, each candidate, means a certain professional preparation, completed college, a seventh degree mainly related to the legal and economic profession. Then, expertise and trained staff and proof that for a minimum of seven years you've done this job and at the end of the day, that you have confirmation that the candidates are not condemned or that a certain court case is being conducted. Contributions that were to be made to the applications were delivered precisely by these evidences, confirmation of how much and how much the candidate and where he worked and where he had achieved his experience. What we had a chance to see was that 17 candidates appeared by that deadline. At the 93rd session of November 18th, the Committee decided to educate the Working Group to review the documentation in detail and give its opinion through the report, whether all the data, or any documentation defined by the competition, were truly respected. Then the Working Group gave its report on November 20th. The decision was adopted on November 27th, the Workgroup report, which found that 15 candidates from 17 met the conditions of the competition and at the end of December 96th, we had an obligation to 203 members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to hold talks with all candidates. By the time the talks with the candidates started, one candidate withdrew his documentation, so the Committee's task was to conduct a conversation with 14 candidates. Reports of candidates with résumés have been sent to all parliamentary groups and to all members of the Committee. After the talks were held, the Committee explained that, in fact, according to the law on which we were making the decision, we had to make a statement about all the candidates who applied. So the list for presidents had six candidates and a list for members of the Council of 14 candidates. By law, we elect President of the Council and four candidates of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control. Of the six candidates, we selected one of the 13 candidates, since of these six, one was elected president, four candidates were elected. The candidates elected, who voted for each candidate individually, for President Vladimir Antonijevic, a graduate lawyer, who has otherwise been the president of the Commission for State Aid Control in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then, four Council candidates are Mrs Ljiljana Blagojevic, a graduate lawyer. Then, Marko Vidakovic, a graduate economist, Dusica Djordjevic, a graduate lawyer and Mr. Dragan Djurdjevic, a Mr. Economic Sciences. I'm just going to say something about the president's biography because for all the other biographies you have the opportunity to see what they've been up to and I think that direct contact with state aid has been at all, but as the President and the reason why we supported Mr Vladimir Antonijevic, that is because a great step has been achieved in this area and a reduction of all the criticisms we have received, not only from the EU, but also from all other developed countries, that we are not stimulating a sufficient market economy, that is to say that with the help of state aid we are doing certain state control of economy and markets. Mr. Vladimir Antonijevic, otherwise in his biography, worked on various projects of the World Bank and other international organisations, but what is important, participated as president of the negotiating chapter 8, which is also very important for this area of state aid control and for competition policy. What was one of the major recommendations for us, is that the whole preparation for such a definition of the law went with its initiative, which is of great importance to all of us, because in the data of the participation of state aid in GDP, it shows that the smallest one is now 1.9% of GDP, which is, for example, only 10 years ago, almost 70% less. At the time of 2010, it was 2.74% and this is what, in fact, and this law, by moving practically the competence of this Commission and by forming an independent institution in terms of government work, and in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia, it really shows that it is of great importance and a step. I think that is why we will get great commendations not only from the European Commission, but from all international institutions. On the other hand, as president, Mr Antonijevic also had great experience in the work when we talk about European integration and legislation policy. He worked at the European Integration Office. What is very important to us is that his work is recognised in all these institutions as being someone who does in a certain way triggers major changes in certain areas and in accordance with international standards. Other candidates, such as Mr Dragan Djurdjevic, are also from the Commission, the Master of Economic Sciences, the Vice-President of the Commission so far, then Mrs Dusica Djordjevic, a graduate lawyer from the Competition Protection Commission. Otherwise, a lot of candidates have come from this Commission, but this lady has been actively involved in making a legal proposal that we have had the opportunity to plead. After all, we have two more candidates, Mrs. Ljiljana Blagojevic, the city's attorney, without any state aid in terms of the work of the city of Belgrade, the signing of contracts and the implementation of these contracts could not be unless it has passed through this institution, when we talk about the city's attorney, whose head is Mrs. Ljiljana Blagojevic. As a result, we believe that her experience is valuable in the future work of this Commission, as well as Mr Mark Vidakovic, as a graduate economist, who has worked on UN projects from this area, directly on the implementation, although she is now working in the bank, is also working on these projects concerning the granting of guarantees for state aid. We think these candidates are the best of those who have responded to the contest, and because of that, in the voting day, we suggested that this list be the subject of this agenda point today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-23-0.u67836	Thank you. I'm asking if any of the MPs are asking for a word. Thank you. Since no word has been reported, before the conclusion of a single search, I'm asking again whether the president or anyone else under article 96. Is the Rules of Procedure looking for a word? On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the President of the Commission for State Aid Control. Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of four members of the Committee on State aid control pursuant to Article 192(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of four members of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control. I'm asking the promoter if he wants a word. I'm asking the representatives of the parliamentary groups if anyone wants a word. (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of four members of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday, December 23rd, 2019, starting at 10:30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Please, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we'll determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present. We're moving on to a decision. I put the draft law on public procurement to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted for – 132, no one. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-23-0.u67837	I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 12, which was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 28, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 43 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 52, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 52nd and other members, which state "the day of the publication", the amendment was jointly tabled by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 61, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 66 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 68, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 71 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 75 tabled by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I'm closing the vote: for - six, against - no one, abstention - one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 75, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 79, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 81 submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 81 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 82 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 83, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 84 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 85, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 87, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 88 tabled by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 93, which was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 105, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 105, which was tabled by the People's MP, Veronica Radet. I'm closing the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 105, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 105, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 119 tabled by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 123, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 125 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: for -15, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 126, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 127 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 129 submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 151 tabled by MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 151 put forward jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 178, which have been tabled by five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 181 which, with correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 184 which was tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: for - 10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 185, which has been tabled by five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 191 tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 192, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for -15, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 193 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 203 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 225 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 228 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 233 tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 234 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 235 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 241 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Annex 4 to the vote. Part 3, submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions - one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put the draft law on public procurement in general. I conclude the vote: for - 135, against -one, the abstentions - there is no, of a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on public procurement. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 137, against -one, with abstentions - there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: for – 13, against - no one with abstentions is available. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for - 10, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company law as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – one with abstention – there is not, of a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Society. Before we move on to a decision on the bill, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraph 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts a law governing public borrowing by the majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there is not, of a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the four MPs of the SDPS Group. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – two abstentions – there is no, of a total of 155. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139, v – none, abstention – one, of 155. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic I am concluding the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 12, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, to the vote: for - nine, against - no one, abstentioned - no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 36, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the amendment to article 37, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 46 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 51 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 52 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 55 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 57th vote by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 66, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 67, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 67, which was tabled by the People's MP, Verice Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 68, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 71, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 71, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 72 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 72, which was tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 72 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – none, abstentioned – one, of a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – one, with abstention – there is no of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – none, the abstentioned – two, of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4, with an amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4, with an amendment, submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, abstentioned – two, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – none, with abstention – one, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the central records of the real owners, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, I move to a decision. I put the draft law on supplementing the law on violations in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendment to Article 2 which was submitted to the same text by MP Alexander Seselj, with correction and MP of the People's Republic of Rade, with correction. I conclude the vote: for: 13, against – no one with abstentions – is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 3 which, with correction, have been submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law supplementing the law on violations, in general. I conclude the vote: for -140, against – no one with abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes the draft law supplementing the Law on Infringements. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, I move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation Act and renting immovable property, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – no one, abstentioned – two, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Sreto Peric, with a correction. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation Act and renting immovable property, in general. I conclude the vote: for -139, against – none, with abstention – one, of a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Intermediation Act and lease the immovableity. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia towards the Slovak Republic, in general. I conclude the vote: for -138, against – one, with abstention – there are no, of a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States with a view to improving the harmonisation of the tax rules at international level and the application of the FATKA rules, in general. I conclude the vote: for -138, against – none, with abstention – one, out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for -151, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa a.d. Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka a.d. under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, on the basis of the loan agreement for the construction of the divorce pipeline Alexandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin (III stage), in general I am concluding the vote: for -139, against – no one with abstention – two of the 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty highway E-80 shares of Nis – Merdare Phase I between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I conclude the vote: for -139 v - two abstentions - there are no, of a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security (AEOS) in general. I conclude the vote: for - 139, v - no one, abstention - one, total - 155. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, relating to the Funding Agreement, originally signed on 9 November 2016 between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank "KfW" Frankfurt in Main and the Special Agreement with the Finance Agreement, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 139, v - two, abstentions - there is no total – 155. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137, v - two, abstentions - there is no total – 155. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137, against -one, with abstention - there is no total – 155. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Serbian budget for 2004, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 137, against -one, with abstention - there is no total – 154. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137, against -one, with abstention - there is no total – 154. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 budget in general. I conclude the vote: for - 135, against -one, with abstention - there is no total - 154. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 136, v - one, abstention - one, total - 154. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 133, against -one, abstention - two, total - 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 133, against -one, abstention - three, total - 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for -134, against -one, abstention - three, total – 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2011 budget, in general. I conclude the vote: for -132, against -one, abstention - three, total – 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 133, against -one, abstention - three, total - 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2013 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 136, v – one, abstention – one, total – 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 137 against -one, with abstention - there is no total – 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 137 against -one, with abstention - there is no total – 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2016 budget, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 135, against -one, with abstention - there is no total – 153. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – one, with abstention – there is no total – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – one, with abstention – there is no total – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 149, against – no one, abstentioned – one, a total – 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the members of the Supervisory Board on their appointment on your behalf and on my behalf and wish them a lot of success in their work. Before we move to a decision, I remind you that the list of candidates to elect the President of the State Aid Control Commission contains the same number of candidates as the number elected. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds to elect Vladimir Antonijevic as President of the Commission for State Aid Control. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one, with abstention – a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vladimir Antonijevic as President of the Commission for State Aid Control by majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate, on behalf of the MPs, on behalf of the People's Parliaments, the President of the Commission for the control of state aid in the elections and to wish for a lot of success in the work. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds to elect Ljiljana Blagojevic as a member of the Council of the Commission for State Aid Control. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ljiljana Blagojevic as a member of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control, most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds to elect Marko Vidakovic as a member of the Council of the Commission for State Aid Control. I conclude the vote: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has selected Mark Vidakovic as a member of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds to elect Dusica Djordjevic as a member of the Council of the Commission for State Aid Control. I conclude the vote: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dusica Djordjevic as a member of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control, most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds to elect Dragan Djurdjevic as a member of the Council of the Commission for State Aid Control. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly chose Dragan Djurdjevic as a member of the Commission's Council for State Aid Control by majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the members of the Council of the Commission for the control of state aid in the election and wish for a lot of success in the work. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chair of the People's Parliament, the infringement is deemed to have been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. National MP Neđo Jovanovic, at a session on 16 December 2019, at 15 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 16 December 2019, at 16 hours and six minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: no one, against one, abstentions, has a total of -134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Seselj, at a session on 20 December 2019, at 11 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: for—no one, against—two, a total - 131 MP. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the ninth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
