ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63107	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 52 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, so we have a quorum in terms of continuing to work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go, Professor Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63108	Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Why did the Serbian government agree to be a partner in the negotiations between the ruling parties and one part of the opposition parties, some of which are outside parliamentary with OSCE representatives, and the largest opposition party in the SRS has been neglected? I got a call from these OSCE representatives too, so I didn't want to go to that meeting. So then they set me up for 45 minutes and, of course, waited for nothing. I don't want to talk to strangers about Serbia's internal problems, and we have problems regarding the election process. We should discuss them. Government instructions cannot change the electoral conditions, nor the RIK instructions. It can only be done by law, and we should then gather all parliamentary parties, so we can see what is most negative in our election practice. First of all, the Constitutional Court violated the Constitution and the law. The Constitution states that the MP can entrust his mandate to the political party he belongs to. It's in the Constitution. The Constitutional Court suspended it. We live in an anti-constitutional state. The Constitutional Court has abolished the constitutional provision and no one has been worried about it. It was ten years ago, though, whether or not Veronica, you've remembered here for a long time. So first it must be removed, to correctly interpret and apply the Constitution. Second, what are our problems? Media presentation of parties, parties must be equal, especially in electronic media, both with national frequencies both regional and local. It can't be a privilege just the parties that have the most money, and we're in a situation that a huge amount of money goes to television videos, much more than all the other types of campaign together. Secondly, there should be an urgent ban on bribing citizens. The parties in the election campaign can share flyers, stickers, newspapers, books and other materials of graphic work. But with us, the parties compete to share more flour, oils, sugar, vinegar, and refrigerators with the citizens. Mr. Marinkovic, that's a little funny, but that's what it says about understanding democracy. Therefore, it is not the electoral will of citizens, peoples, but whether it will be satisfied with the pre-election package. It has to be lifted, it has to be banned. You share out of the election campaign when you are so much humanity and sugar and flour and oil and everything that the citizens need. You don't have to share anything, just keep your pensions up a little bit and pay the most vulnerable, not in the election campaign, so some of them shared the refrigerators, some of them shared the washing machines. What else is there, Natasha? Some of the glasses shared some of them, and the brown ones in Arangelovac, right? And the glasses and the more expensive ones, not the ordinary ones I wear, but the Ray Ban ones, how much does that cost? I'd buy 15 glasses for one of those. That's what we need to talk about seriously, put on the wallpaper and say that's the problem. The problem is that Kosovo's polling stations do not count ballots immediately on site, but are carried to central Serbia and, by the way, at night, kobajagi with watch, and are not counted until the next day. We know us, we don't trust anyone like that. There are developed democracies in the world where parties don't have to have controllers in polling stations, all government officials do and there are trusts, rarely embezzlements, thefts. We're a long way from that. We're 100 years from now. That's why controllers are the most important thing to us. But who can train our controllers? The parties themselves, not let the controllers train them, and that's how they recruit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63109	Thank you, Professor. A seam. The next question is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63110	I thank the chairman. I'll ask you a few questions. One question is about cohesion, since we all know that agriculture and the development of agriculture in the most part depends on the commission, and the commission has been done in our country since the 1980s, and now it's done a little bit, but it's a very small area that we're working on. Otherwise, the 2006 Cooperation Act, where, in the two-year period, sublaws should be passed, rules, where this has not been done to this day. In 2012 In 2013, a German governmental organisation of GIZ, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, entered the process, seven pilot projects, to make a commission in certain areas, mountainous and mountainous areas where it was finished, and where of these seven areas only one area of this, and this is in Bolovac, where all of this is listed in the cadastre. As far as the commission is concerned, the resolution of the commission is also a solution to the legal and property heritage because we are witnesses that five generations of the country's owner stand back in the catastrus. This solves it, solves the roads between the two parcels, solves the deforestation, and thus the commissioning and voluntary filling of the country is a priority for us. My question is, when will the Law on Cooperation enter the Assembly, because we have the Law on Agricultural Land, where there are only 19 members involved in the membership and volunteering of the country? Otherwise, a commission was formed, as I have information from the competent agriculture minister, that commission, headed by the Commission, is the director of the Land Administration and, according to my information, the commission has 27 members and they have not met once before. I'm interested in when they're going to enter into the Cooperation Act, because that's the only way we have the chance to put an accent on the development of agriculture, because by rounding up the country, by solving legal and property problems, by solving road infrastructure through this land, there's a communicable possibility of developing agriculture not only in the mountainous and mountainous areas that I'm talking about, but also in other parts of Serbia. There are good examples that have been done, but these are very small surfaces. There's something else I'd like to ask specifically, and it's about the community where I come from. Otherwise, we all know, the privatisation that was in 2000, privatisation was disastrous for the whole society for all of us in Serbia. A very small percentage of privatised companies have managed to keep working. Otherwise, in Srlig, where I come from, in 2000, we had thousands of workers, even Srljig was one of the most developed municipalities in the former Yugoslavia. Privatisation made its own, subsequent privatisation, destroyed companies, where one of these companies was "EI Acoustika" Svrljig, who produced speakers, produced everything necessary for these purposes. At that time, in the 1980s in this Electronic Industry Svrljig, “EI Acoustika” Svrljig, a laboratory for sound was done – that is so-called “EI Acoustika” Svrljig. Deaf room, which was built together with the means of "EI Acoustics" Srljig and at that time along with the Faculty of Electronics in Nis. This sound laboratory, that deaf room was the largest project in the Balkans at the time, where they worked for needs and businesses, social enterprises, and it was also for the military industry, for checking, for the quality of sound, for the quality of microphones, for the quality of speakers and for everything else. Otherwise, the deaf room did not enter the bankruptcy mass when the company went bankrupt because at the time those experts who were doing privatisation in Serbia, in 2000, they privatised it the worst way, left people without a job. This deaf room or that sound laboratory remained in state property, more specifically the Faculty of Electronics in Nis is the title of that laboratory, that is, these deaf rooms that should now be put into operation. My question is, when is that room, deaf or that sound lab going to be put into operation because it's a great opportunity and a need maybe for some projects, for some companies that do things like that, and the big thing is that it's not just a monument of the '80s because it's really very high-quality done in the best way, where the Danish state, the German state, was involved at that time, where our country was the best experts. My question is, when will the Faculty of Electronics in Nis function this facility because it is owned by the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Education? If it's as soon as possible to give there the possibility that people can work normally. That company is now privatized, they bought people, and it would be good to put that into function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63111	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word now has Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63112	Thank you, Chairman. On this occasion, I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia a question. It is obvious that peer violence is an increasingly present problem that also causes complex physical, social and psychological consequences not only for children but also for family, for school, and therefore for society in general, because healthy children are a healthy society. We are also witnessing these days that more dramatic cases of peer violence have occurred in several schools in Serbia. At Petar Petrovic Negos University in Belgrade, the boy has suffered various mental and physical forms of violence for seven years, and most drastically was the attempt by their peers to throw him off the third floor of the school. Neither the parents of the children who abused this boy reacted to this violence. In the high school in Barajev, girls committed physical violence against their peer while the third person recorded it on the phone. This disturbing footage was found on all social networks. In this case, the school immediately took appropriate measures, the child bully is excluded from school. A third case current these days took place in Pancheva where girls attacked their peer on their way from school where two girls abused their peers in the most brutal way, threw stones at her, strangled her with a hood and hit her knees in the chest and stomach. In this case, adequate measures are also taken, but no one can bear responsibility for the behavior of children on the street except for parents. It is an opportunity to mention the most dramatic case of peer violence that took place in Nis years ago, the outcome of which was fatal where the boy committed suicide without being able to fight against the physical and psychological torture of peers. Of course, our country is taking certain measures and activities, adapting to a legal framework that should contribute to a more effective prevention of peer violence, but this problem can be said by the problem and the challenge of the 21st century for all educational institutions in the country. Unfortunately, despite all the legal and operational measures taken in the above examples that occurred in the past ten days, the conclusion is that among children, all forms of peer violence, verbally, socially, as well as all those present electronically via social networks are still present. Of course, there are positive examples of the prevention of peer violence in many educational institutions, since there is good and coordinated cooperation between teachers, parents, children, and other competent services. I would like to highlight a special example of a new method of prevention used at the Negos elementary school in Nis, or an example of preventive measures implemented in the Contemporary High School in Belgrade, where no examples of peer violence have been recorded. It is clear that peer violence is becoming increasingly complex and an increasingly present problem and society does not yet have an adequate answer, so this problem requires urgent, synchronised and well-planned action by all relevant social factors, both parents and schools and children and the state itself. In this regard, I would like to ask the question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia - given that the problem of peer violence requires a multidisciplinary approach, i.e. the synchronised measures and activities and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, Child Protection and various social services and the non-governmental sector, I would like to ask whether the Government plans to adopt a specific strategic document and systematic measures to prevent peer violence, as well as to prevent and mitigate the consequences resulting from the presence of all forms of peer violence among children and young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63113	Thank you, colleague Stojadinović. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63114	These days in Serbia is an active air quality story, and if anything is good at updating this story, it is good that the issue of environmental protection is activated and what it gains in importance. That is why we want to ask Minister Nenad Popovic and Prime Minister Brnabic for clarification on the recently signed nuclear energy co-operation agreement between Serbia and Russia and the announcement of the construction of a nuclear centre in Vinca, to explain exactly what this agreement means, what exactly this centre will do, who will work in it, who will work on its construction and what exactly is the bill on Serbia's benefits in economic, scientific, technical and technological terms. There is no dispute that it is in Serbia's interest to co-operate with the Russian Federation in scientific terms in the field of nuclear technologies and science, especially when it comes to nuclear medicine and it may be of rare information available to the public, when it comes to the purpose of the nuclear centre. It is certainly worth welcoming the ambition to work with Russia in the field of research in nuclear medicine. But what is the status of this agreement, given the obligations of the Serbian state towards the European Nuclear Energy Agency, as part of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, so the OSCE? From information available to the media, there is no accurate and accurate knowledge, except for the general findings that this is very good for Serbia. The signing of further contracts that the purpose of this centre should be defined has yet to be announced and therefore the suspicion remains undisturbed. We have a Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, for which staff is sought for diplomatic status such as NATO personnel in Serbia, and this is a military alliance and this is a humanitarian centre, which is why the public is very often questioning the purpose and purpose of this centre in Nis, because this could question the declared military neutrality of Serbia in the eyes of the relevant international community. Of course, I recall that if the plan is for this facility to grow into a nuclear power plant over time, and it is announced that the construction of a nuclear reactor is in it, the construction of a nuclear power plant is something that must go through the procedure in the National Assembly and must be approved in this House through a special law, for which there is a prescribed way of law, which includes both public discussions and a long procedure for public and open debate on all aspects of investment in nuclear energy, and primarily on the security aspects and aspects of the environment. We don't need to remind ourselves that from historical experiences we could see on the Chernobyl case what party management of nuclear devices looks like and how it can be done. I don't need to remind myself that in our public too, we have a debate on party staffing in Vinca, on family and party employment and the allocation of family earnings, and in the end, in the public company, Serbia's nuclear facilities for many years, we have a director in V.D. the state, even though the legal assumptions for such a thing have long ceased to exist. We therefore think it is necessary for Minister Popovic to provide written clarifications to the interested public, with detailed information on what is actually going to happen, especially as there is a suspicion of the public interest of a project like this, since the same thing appeared at the same time on the minister's private website. Therefore, I repeat, it is very important to know who will be getting jobs in the construction and operation of this institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63115	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Now the word has been made by MP Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63116	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, and why not the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia, and to ask if any of the above came into possession of this book entitled "The People Won't", and it is about political profiter Dragan Gilas? This book is usually very easy to read, very easy to understand, but very difficult to accept. Otherwise, I asked if anyone had made it to this book because, behold, we witnessed, ten days ago, we marked the Day of Victory, or the Day of Liberation of the City of Belgrade, and we marked the Day of Victory over Fascism in Belgrade. We also marked Victory Day over Nazi methods, but we have witnessed that during this period some Nazi methods from Germany in the 30s have returned to Belgrade. We've seen some of the people around Mark Bastac gathering some of the people who are mining some humanitarian action, we've seen books burn, and for that very reason I've asked if anyone in these institutions came into possession of this book? Because there's a reasonable doubt that the copies of this book ended up somewhere at the stake. This book, as I said, deals with Dragan Gilas as an only child, and I would somehow divide this into two groups, i.e. Dragan Gilas, a businessman and Dragan Gilas politician. Otherwise, in the 1990s, one not so young student wired money for cigarettes, and then at the end of the 1990s he founded a few companies and called those companies after some old Serbian original words, on Cyrillic, I guess, because Dragan Djilas didn't even know how to run English, which Vuk Jeremic explained well to him when he laughed in his face while Dragan Gilas read some things. These old Serbian names are "Direct Media", "Emotion Production", "Multicom Group", "Ovejsn Advertisement". By the way, since the arrival of DOS in 2000, by 2003 and 2004, to the appearance of Boris Tadic, these four companies have managed to make revenue of only 125 million. When we divide those 125 million into four parts, four years, and then 12 months, it turns out that each company made about 6,000 euros, about 600,000 dinars a month, at the present rate, which is essentially not so bad for some beneficial craft shop. But at that moment Boris Tadic comes up on stage and he invents 11 July 2004, a new job, a new job as head of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia and brings in Dragan Gilas, a "young" politician, new politician Dragan Gilas. In that period, he remained in office for three years. For three years, he was the director of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia. Remember, that's the time when Dragan Gilas used to admire him with yellow tape, when the patrol stopped him, and when he insulted the cops, when he even gave them business cards to see who would leave them out of work later because they stopped him. For such behaviour, he was awarded, so after three years he went to the post of minister, in charge of the National Investment Plan, i.e. the minister of money consumption, since there was nothing since the investment. Interestingly, Dragan Gilas, an entrepreneur, took advantage of the period, so he multiplied his company's income from 125 million to 14.3 billion. He increased his income 114 times. So, not 10, not 100 times, but 114 times at 14 grand and 300 million dinars. Now and that was not enough anymore, but Dragan Gilas, the politician became mayor of Belgrade and from 2008 to 2012, as much as he was, Dragan Gilas a businessman, and he used it and increased his firm's revenues by 262 times. How much is that increase? Let the citizens take and multiply their incomes, their wages, multiply 262 times, so they'll see how drastic the difference is in money. That's about 32.8 billion, 32,000 million. Then we find it strange where Bosko Obradovic and Marko Bastac's great financial motivation, that Bosko promises traffic signs or that Marko Bastac is walking mud around Belgrade and that it is rolling in its natural environment as he rolls there in those cubes in the Republic Square. Further in this book, "People will not" is written about other affairs, about the purchase of trams, about the procurement of the "Solaris" bus. It is written about the Big Brother's house in Kosutnjak, the preschool facility in the village of Altina, the Bus-plus, the drowning of GSP overdraft loans, about PKB, about City Cleanness, about underground containers, about the building of Inexa, and about paying, which is very interesting, panoramic tour of London which was one of the items in the price of building a bridge on Ada. I hope that there will be time, that in the next period we will process the item in the text of what this book says, so we will give some citizens what it was and who it really is, Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63117	Thank you, Mr. Bakery. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Gjorge Vukadinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63118	Thank you. I have a question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for the Office for Kosovo and Metohija on a subject that has been mentioned here several times and then been denied, but I say I want a written reply and a statement by the MUP, as well as the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. It is a decision, i.e. the Government's conclusion of December 2012. So, it was already this current government, the SNS, although the prime minister was Ivica Dacic, at least formally, who accepted information about the government's talks with EU foreign policy and security representative Catherine Ashton and the president of Kosovo's provisional institutions and Metohija Hashim Thaci, and this is about opening integrated management, i.e. administrative crossings on Jarinj and Merdar, as well as the administrative crossings of Brnjak and Končulj. It is about the fact that here and this Assembly and the public have repeatedly been about who established the borders in Jarinj, who declared the administrative line and made the border in fact, and in this regard shifted responsibility, i.e. the ball from one side to the other. This December 2012 conclusion means the conclusion of the Serbian government in 2012 unequivocally, particularly with these points 4, 5 and 6 indicates that the realization was in any case carried out for the mandate of this SNS government, i.e. the SPS. Is it about agreements that were, in principle, but initialled only during the previous, famous Bork agreements, and I'm willing to accept it, but one is paraphrasing the agreement, the other is their implementation. This shows that the implementation of the agreement, meaning this integrated border management, i.e. crossings, which function in fact as a border, was carried out for the mandate of this authority. If those agreements were bad, why didn't they cancel them? Why didn't they at least apply them in a more acceptable way? So I request a statement from the Office and the Ministry of State, or Government, on this matter and a written answer. My second question is relatively brief and goes to the address, of course, of the Prime Minister, but specifically the minister without the portfolio of Nenad Popovic and Energy Minister Antić, as it concerns a potentially important and delicate topic, namely one of the agreements signed during the visit of Russian Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev, which is that Russia and Serbia will jointly build a nuclear science, technology and innovation centre in Serbia. It is even mentioned that the value of the centre and the project is about 300m euros. By the Russian Federation, the agreement was signed by Director General Rosa Tom, Rosa Tom Alexei Lihachev. It is mentioned what the goal is - to establish the most modern research, development of nuclear technologies for peaceful purposes in the fields of medicine, agriculture, industry and the development of materials. The price of what is mentioned and which is spinning and some speculation in the press team suggests that it is actually an introduction, that this agreement is nuclear, building a mini reactor, but still a nuclear reactor. It could be an introduction to building atomic power plants in Serbia. I'm not even going to say it's bad, but it's something that shouldn't be introduced to a small door, especially what seems to me, has expired the moratorium on the ban on the construction of nuclear power plants in this country, and I think it's necessary that now the entire society and the public, professionally and openly discuss it, and not that this small door is being introduced by something that potentially far-reaching change and energy, and I would say the country's strategic policy and is of interest to all citizens. Since I have 20 seconds left, I just wanted to point that out. I support the agreements, let no dilemmas, as well as any other agreements that have been established and signed with the Russian Federation. I hope that there will be no dead letter left on paper, but I demand and insist on more transparency and the public, especially about such an important and sensitive subject as the potential construction of a nuclear reactor and nuclear power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63119	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Security Act of the Product. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the sittings of Minister Zoran Djordjevic and his associates are invited to attend. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šukić, Marijan Risticevic, Milorad Mirčić, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Seselj, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63120	The draft amending and supplementing the Law says in the first article that it is necessary to prohibit the production, import and export of misleading products, the transport of misleading products continues to go through a text that threatens the health and safety of consumers with its misleading appearance. We Serbian radicals say that we should reform, to define the requirements in this article that must meet the products produced on the market of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to participate in transport. We include all products, unlike the promoter who has concentrated only on products that have a misleading appearance. The point is to prevent all types of misleading products not only by appearance but also by content. When we discussed this law, we cited the example of "coca-cola". She looks not misleading, but content is misleading, because she's very harmful. Secondly, there is no declaration, it does not contain a declaration containing the composition of which it is made and how that drink is made, to what is commonly known to be harmful, which are these electronic cigarettes. In this way we include both production and transport and that requirements must be clearly defined so as not to, to prevent such products from being present on the market and in Serbia's production. The legislator says, that is, not a legislator but a pronoun, the Serbian government says here only refers to the products of the misleading appearance, and the government, of course, did not accept such a broader definition of this member, reducing the percentage of which the counterpart spoke of accepting amendments submitted by the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63121	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Alexander Markovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63122	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I suggest not to accept the amendment that we have just talked about for all the reasons that the Government has also proposed in its opinion to the Members of Parliament, when we talk about the proposal for a law on general product safety. But, Mr. Chairman, today is the 302th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs for which they receive their salary neatly, 302 days as they are in the so-called. "the boycott of Parliament". This shows a high level of irresponsibility towards both parliament and the citizens of Serbia who chose them. Now, I know you'd like some of that part of the so-called. "the opposition" liked to return to parliament. So I can also list the specific names of some MPs who would really like to return to parliament, but there is one problem, not to give them their boss, not to give them Dragan Gilas. He won't let them go public on that, let alone return to parliament. And that's not what I'm saying, or anyone from SNS, that's what Rade Veljanovski said on that N1 television this morning. I accidentally turned on the N1, I wanted to look at the weather forecast, so I had a chance to see Radet Veljanovski hosting and saying that Dragan Gilas is an absolute master of what the opposition is today in Serbia, that he is an absolute boss, that he is the master of this Alliance for Serbia, and that everyone must listen unspeakably. He even used one syntagma, which is that Dragan Gilas bought or bought the Serbian opposition. What's even worse than what I'm talking about, it's continuing to lynch and experience the work of our politicians, the actions of opposition politicians towards public figures who dare not think about the way they order "Today", N1, NIN, "Time" and everyone else from that mile. After yesterday's experience of famous artist Momcio Bajagic Bajag, we have a follow-up. So Vuk Jeremic, he's probably the president of that People's Party, who was obviously upset about the performance of the famous singer Ace Lukas on the birthday of SNS in the New Sad Hall, who sang in his performance the lyrics of the famous patriotic song "This is Serbia", I repeat famous patriotic songs, in my opinion perhaps the most beautiful patriotic songs in Serbia, Vuk Jeremic said on his official Twitter account "Goreće in Hell". This is an image of Ace Lucas after a microphone singing the lyrics I was talking about and Jeremic's comment on it is "You're burning in Hell". Imagine that impertinence. Imagine. Afterwards, Vuk Jeremic felt the need to react, explain further, and says, "All those who have been upset by my comment," I quote: "The drugged delinquent, with dark glasses, sings about the graves of warriors to a strange crowd, brought by buses, and a direct TV transmission of it goes to the whole nation." That's what he means by the event, the SNS birthday celebration. He says: “This is an irresistible association to hell for me. ” So that insults and all the Serbian people by calling it a "serious crowd" in the "serious nation" and I have to ask a question, how long will we endure the target? As long as we endure drawing a target at the head of anyone who dares not think in the way they think N1, "Today" and all others and various academics, Dusan Teodorovic, whom my esteemed colleague Marko Atlagic has an adequate nickname and everyone else and this same Vuk Jeremic who in his past dared to be called nationalist, right-wing, patriot, etc. Imagine, even in one part of his career, he took a picture with a spoon to send a message that he's a nationalist, that he's a patriot. I am after this, after this mocking of our nation, after mocking a top patriot song, a song that causes the deepest feelings in our listeners and the most beautiful feelings in our listeners, I expect that in their style of burning books, burning everything that should be sacred to us, I expect him to burn his spoon now with which he took his own time. Shame on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63123	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word now has Minister Zoran Djordjevic, and the right to the replica Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63124	Thank you. Mr. Mircic, I understand what caused your proposal to amend and supplement this member. In the next article, we'll talk about it, there's a definition of what a misleading product is. I understand that there is also a deception today when it is not just products and that today we have some parts and some members and some opposition that wants to deceive the public and completely abuse both young and all others by giving them all the wrong information, but this law is not about public deception. So I'd like to just go back and if there are any suggestions that this Article 2 is going to change differently and define itself, I'm at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63125	Thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. Now the right to replica has Mr. Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63126	Interestingly, a colleague explained his views that match or fully agree with the argument given by the government. Of all the things that he stated in the argument of his attitude, the only thing that is related to the subject and matter, it is a misleading personality as misleading products. All of what Aleksandar Markovic listed and figures and events is a misleading product and that Serbia knows they are misleading products. And more than that, you're deluding yourself using opportunities like this so that by who knows which way you're re-enacting them in public. You don't understand one thing that your intention has long been transparent. You want to artificially polarise Serbia's political scene, and you don't even want to use such a topic and such a matter when it comes to protecting health, protecting citizens of Serbia. Who's more interested in Gilas and all the characters you and Bajaga are? Bajaga sings as he comes to power. Who's interested in that now? This is about matter where we say all products, requirements for all products that are in both production and market, and not individually these misleading products to list, that's the past. It's already at the junkyard of political history. If you carry on like that, you can have a similar destiny. Don't get carried away with it. And they're just like you pompous, pompous, full of yourself. You can see that the Wolf sent you to the fourth row. He's already distanced himself from you as a radical. If you keep going like that, you'll go in the sixth row.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63127	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The right to replica has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63128	I really don't know, Mr. Chairman, how I deceived the public by reading publicly available statements by Vuk Jeremic, he may have thought of yesterday's statement by academic Dusan Teodorovic. You know what, there are official Twitter accounts of some people who occupy some space in public political life. So, what I think of Vuk Jeremic, that's very well known. How do I feel about academic Dusan Teodorovic, you know that very well. But I do not dispute that they are taking up space in public political life and they have their official Twitter warrants. On these Twitter accounts and other accounts belonging to social networks, they present their political views when it comes to day-to-day political events. Dusan Teodorovic attacked a celebrated musician, artist Momčal Bajagic Bajatu yesterday. That's what I was reacting to. I haven't fooled the public, I've already read the official tweet, the official statement, and I've given my opinion on it. So today, I read the official statement by Vuk Jeremic, which interprets the lyrics of the famous patriotic song "This is Serbia", said in a way that he said, "This is hell". And how did I, please, deceive the public? When it comes to who's at the dump site of history, I can agree with the previous speaker. Yes, Djilas, yes, Jeremic, that Bosko Obradovic, that all of those in that unfortunate Alliance for Serbia, along with this academic, for whom my esteemed colleague Marko Atlagic, has an adequate nickname, that is, yes, they all deserve to be found at the junkyard of history, and that will certainly happen. Another problem is that some media in Serbia are artificially trying to bring them back to political life and present them as relevant political factors. No, and I know it and everyone knows it and you know it, that they are no relevant political factor, but some media that I have listed, such as N1, "Today", "Nin", "Time", are artificially trying to show how they function, how they exist, how they are important, important, etc. As for the fourth row, the Serbian Progressive Party best presented that our officials, therefore, our officials, SNS officials, members of the presidency, members of the main board, so we sent a message that we did not have important officials, that there was no division of some kind and some other part, but that we shared the fate of citizens and that it was a great pleasure for us to have the largest SNS officials sitting in the fourth, fifth, seventh, eleventh, sixteenth, any order. Even Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who is one of the most prominent SNS officials, sat on the stands. It doesn't matter to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63129	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Now the right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63130	I have to go through you, Mr. Marinkovic, to answer to my colleagues. Knowing Alexander Vukic for many years than his colleague knows him, I claim that he would be happy and proud to put a successful government in the front row, to put you who would serve honor in the front row, at least to show you in the big plan cameras, but you're making affairs for him, you're doing crimes, there's nothing you don't do, just like Gilas did, and the other individuals in your ranks are doing it. Is there a bigger criminal and thief than Zorana Mihajlovic? Would you like to take a turn? Look at the composition of the government. Look what the Minister of Health would say. Now you're explaining to us, justifying that he sent you to the fourth row. If I were him, I'd send you upstairs to the gallery so no one can see you, so the cameras can't record you. But what you insist on, you insist that we deal with this debate with rock and roll. There is one, a colleague, a very nice song, that says, "I hope the rock 'n' roll dies," and that includes those who defend that rock 'n' roll, to have the same fate. Leave it alone. You can't fool us with Serbian radicals. This is about an amendment to the definition of a law that needs to be prevented, that is, to create conditions, the criteria for not being on the market so-called. Deluing products. At least respect your colleague from your ranks. She explained it nicely. She set an example. Even school supplies are a danger to children. And here you are telling us about Bajaga and all kinds of masters who play for every winner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63131	Thank you, colleague Mircic. You guys are so tough today. Right on the line, Alexander Markovic. We could put the ball down a little bit. It wouldn't be bad if we didn't qualify like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63132	I can understand, Mr. Chairman, that the previous speaker doesn't like some genre musically, that he doesn't like any singers, that he doesn't like that kind of music, but I think it's completely unimportant whether he loves Bajaga, whether he likes Bajaga, whether he appreciates what Bajaga does, is completely irrelevant to this kind of debate. At the very least, the people choose which music will listen, which singer or musician will be successful. This can also be measured by attendance at his concerts, sales of his editions, albums, etc. I think it's a complete detour. However, what I have reported for the replica is this assessment that we have some criminals in our ranks, etc. I don't know what the previous speaker is talking about, I really don't know. I know that there is a sharped-up, I would not like to say hate, but one special, specific relationship between a parliamentary group in our parliament and certain ministers, so the previous speaker mentioned some of these ministers, in particular Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, Minister of Health, and this has already been discussed several times. Whenever they come, they're the subject of the most terrible attacks here. There's obviously something personal between them. I really don't know what this is about, but I know that I've never heard a single piece of evidence before, an argument that would contribute to these issues. The easiest thing to say is, this guy's a criminal, this guy's a criminal. If you have evidence for someone, if you have any indication, file criminal charges, people. Let's take this subject seriously once who's a criminal, who's not a criminal. I responsibly claim there are no criminals in the SNS. At the very least, if it were like you're talking, we wouldn't be getting so much support from citizens from the 2012 elections, over 2014, 2016, 2018 in the city until today. And today our rating is the biggest, primarily thanks to Alexander Vukic. Just to end, the previous speaker said – I am in his place, etc. All happiness is not, nor will it ever be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63133	Thank you. The word has a minister, so Professor Vojislav Seselj, a replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63134	First, I would also like to point out that our president and very clearly lead the policy not fourth order for some punishment, but precisely because the policy of our party and the policy of our president is that the people always be first. And his wish is for the people and citizens of Serbia who come and trust our party to sit in the front row right now, and for us chosen by the people to stand and sit behind them, so that they and their roles to this society will be first. As far as my colleagues are concerned, I think, and I suggest to you that, since they come here to the Assembly when they have their own laws, that if you have any objections, and I would agree with the previous exhibitor who said that if you have any evidence, there are organs in this country that deal with abuses and criminal acts, that you talk to them and them and say some remarks. What I can tell you is that it's very difficult to compare us to those criminals and hohstapplers that we know what they were doing in this country from 2000 to 2012, what they did against this country, where they brought this country, what was happening to this country, what abuses they had. So, please, don't compare it to those criminals and hohstapplers who were at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63135	Thank you. The word is made by the MP of the people, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63136	I think the biggest mistake of your regime is that you're ready and when someone's crime is fully established, it's determined, it proves that you're protecting them in a certain way, that you're painful to them. On one occasion, Alexander Vukic himself said that 20% of the money disappears from the health ministry's budget each year, that he doesn't even know how it disappeared. At three press conferences, I worked on the Minister of Health and proved what embezzlement he had committed in the area of procurement or were the spheres of contracting to build large health facilities. Here you go, Zorana Mihajlovic, just one example. Did the Chinese offer to make their way from Cack to Pojat for 500m euros? Everybody knows that in the state. Did she make a deal with the Americans to make the price 800 million? What's that for? Let's talk to the Americans that way, ease our policy towards the Serbs a little bit? Aleksandar Vukic himself said that no one offers anything and that they are only asking for Kosovo's recognition. Why the 300m-euro victim, and how much did she get into it? What's the character? She's the best witness to her fairy tale of buying state money the most expensive underwear in the world in New York. Only when the affair started, when the paper started to write, did she make up for it. No, you're not ideal. First, no one can be ideal. Second, there are honest people in the government. I don't know if one hand is enough to count or maybe it might take two, but there are, but there are also those who are extremely unfair. On the other hand, Aleksandar Vukic promises to make a major cut in the government. I had a critical reaction, I told the public right away that the cut should be made immediately. If he thinks with all those ministers that we've listed, and we haven't counted them all, because we haven't explored everything. Look, there's someone else we could explore, and we hesitate, when this pro-Western opposition puts someone on the table, that we get our arguments involved, or our public appearances committed to it. There is, and don't deny it, and you're inconclusive when you deny it. You in the government know each other best. It was not by chance that Zorana Mihajlovic was lonely at the rally. Nobody's gonna sit next to her anymore. You wouldn't either, Djordjevic, admit it, unless you had to, if the president told you to sit next to Zorana, then you'd sit down and run like a plague. Is it true?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63137	Thank you, Professor. A seam. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63138	So on the subject that we people who don't deserve it, we want to protect them in any way or in any way. Our parliamentary majority passed the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption. For a year there's how this law is applied, the effects exist. The effects exist and these effects are spoken publicly, even in one statement the ministry produced certain statistics. That statistics says, therefore, the law has passed me and applied the government that we support, more than 600 convictions exist. So whoever wronged the law, and there are cases so-called. high corruption, it's all processed in the meantime. I don't think there's any clearer evidence that neither the grandmother nor the uncles, but strictly according to the letter of the law today in Serbia. If someone wanted to show a fairer relationship than us, and I guess that's the kind of law you'd adopt, they'd probably be applying it, and they could say, "We've been processing those who've wronged the law in hundreds of years, and there are famous examples of what they've done." So it's a serious relationship to a serious issue and a clean speech based on facts and arguments. As far as the issues of building the Corridor, as I recall, we talked about it many times here. There was a certain public call to select a strategic partner, a public call. Anyone who wanted it could have signed up. There were companies who could meet the conditions and signed up for whoever wanted to. Based on that, it's the only argument, going into realization further, and it's literally the whole story. We've been out here a few times, it's not disputed to repeat it, but that's how it went. At the very end, as for our meeting this week, the seating schedule, I don't know why anyone would get upset about it. We ourselves said that it is our desire to listen to Alexander Vukic when he says, first lines, when the SNS organises a big and important gathering, should always belong to the people, first lines should belong to those sincere activists, party sympathisers, those who love the party, who have shown countless times that they are able to work tirelessly, day and night for both the party and for Serbia. Will any of us be in the fourth, fifth row or the stands to go, our heart is full when we see that the hall is full, when we come so much that we fill every hall and it'll be right in front of us. We have a lot of heart when we say – in the front lines we have young people, students of our leading academy who will show tomorrow how much they love Serbia and how much they are able to do for it, and let them outdo us in everything we do today three times. It will be for Serbia, which is most valuable to us and, you know, we'll be much more pleased than anyone will be able to figure it out - you've moved to the fourth or fifth row. We work for what is most important to us in the world, we do for what Alexander Vukic said must be important to us, so you know what, we can only be satisfied and God has given us as many such gatherings as possible, that our first ranks are filled with such beautiful, young people, capable people, it will be good for both our party and for Serbia, and we don't need anyone to worry about either one or the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63139	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word of the People's Messenger, Vojislav Seselj, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63140	I don't mind bringing young and beautiful into the front row, but you yourself have admitted that you don't have young and beautiful in the government, and there are. The most beautiful minister Serbia has ever had is Nela Kuburovic. For example, I've never attacked her, and I have no record of her being in an affair, and when I have information that someone's in an affair, I have to call him. You're saying everyone could sign up for a public call to apply for construction of the highway from Cuck to Pojat. That's not true. You brought the Lex special for that section of the freeway. Only one American firm could sign up. Those were the conditions, and that's the way it was. Why is it a 500 million difference? Secondly, you see one thing, you've been in power for over seven years. You can no longer rely on what they were like before you. Those before you were incomparably worse, and I know it, I called them pompous, personally, there's no doubt about it. That's no excuse for you. Whatever a man criticises you, you say, and what were they like? They were the scum of the worst kind, and that can't be an expedient circumstance for you. One more thing, you are now announcing the adoption of a law on the investigation of the origin of property, and for seven years you have been in power, you did not want to arrest the biggest criminals of that regime. Now slowly the statutes of law enforcement are coming. If you don't arrest Mladjan Dinkic in another few months and condemn him for breaking into the National Bank of Yugoslavia with automatic rifles, for stealing state gold and with his friend Miroljub Labus sold it somewhere in the world, in Switzerland or where, I no longer remember where it was, they will be untouchable. You've been waiting for obsolescence to occur, and you, with your 50 or 60 inspectors, to comb through all of Serbia, to find out who's illegally wealthy, that's bullshit. I can't wait for that law to come. Instead of chasing where you have evidence of a crime, and you have both for Labus, and for Dinkic, and for what is called Alexander Vlahovic, so Bozidar Djelic... You've had it for Djindjic himself, but he can't be prosecuted because we're not developing this Catholic tradition of digging up the dead to be tried. They did this to the Catholic pope, whether they were called, George VII dug his predecessor, Pope Formoz, out of the grave and tried him and sentenced him to incineration. We don't have it, but we'd have to be prosecuted by criminals who have evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63141	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63142	First of all, as far as the law goes, we've talked about it more than once here. Speaking of which things must be cautious and where no mistake can be made, and that is, of course, our interest that this law covers as long a period of time as possible and that is exactly what should be the most cautious. So, the longest possible, but not to put ourselves in a situation, to catch a period where there's no material, and in which I can't argue that they're proven and to make the mistake of having someone wash themselves that way, and he didn't deserve to be in such a situation. So that's why it's a question - how long can it cover the law? As far as will goes, she's quite clear. When you hear Alexander Vukic say himself – as soon as the law is passed, here I am first interrogated and my wider family examined, and then we go to everyone else, I guess it's clear to you that we are completely at peace with our conscience that we are fully open-hearted. So be it. First, let everything about any of us be examined, and then nice to see those people that we know weren't even the least innocent, and they represented the knowledge of the former regime, but to prove it by law and to be as precise and clear and unequivocal as when it comes to these other things that we've already processed. The names mentioned are small and small in relation to those we have already shown, in their case they show that we are not afraid of anyone, nor have we any reason to spare anyone. I don't know a more sound name in this country than Miroslav Miskovic. In that name, has it been shown that we are not faring from anything and how much, and each of you can remember, any former ministers who have become the object of the interest of the authorities, and some of them have walked a little to see what detention units look like, so they whine there on the other side, leaping like the fallen ones - oh, don't touch Milosavljevic, don't touch that Bora Novakovic, no Oliver Dulic, they're all wonderful and innocent people, it's all politics and you want to give them political revenge? They were always answering like that, and nobody thought of me-- so wait till we see, these wonderful people, why are they being charged and how strong their cases are when the police, the prosecution say these states are dealing with the sea? We've never had a problem, ever, and I always say that anyone who did wrong about the law could have been a minister for 101 times, has before that same law to answer and say the same law, and for us, and we don't have any problem with that. They're jumping today as well. He says the law on the origin of the property is brought alone because you want to give us political revenge to destroy us. Who's the loudest? So those whose conscience is at least calm and pure. Jumps Dragan Djilas, jumps Vuk Jeremic, jumps Bosko Obradovic. They themselves know best what affects them and what they fear. As for the issue of terms, once again, for the job that was on the subject of Corridor, their printing, Gilas's press, Jeremic's press, Obradovic's press says - there were companies. Read it with them. So they hate us, what they say, like we're Germans. (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... They don't mean anything to us. To finish, but those who hate us so much say -- there are companies that could have called. Why not – we don't know, and now it's just a question of their interpretation, one way or another. The fact is, those who do not love us say that they existed. Why do we, whatever we do, remind them of them? Not because we need an excuse for anything... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... but what is, the last sentence literally, rather than what is our obligation to say—people, we must not forget who they were, what they were doing, and what a disaster they have made in this country. It is a warning not to let anything like that happen again because if Gilasu, Jeremic, Obradovic and other relics of the yellow company ever allow themselves to fall back on the coat of arms of this people from Serbia to be left with nothing and we must warn each time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63143	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the replica of Professor Dr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63144	You're wrong, for example. That you didn't pursue Gilas because of that bridge and the huge pairs that were so spent, to determine where what was going, not to pursue Gilas because he was rich. There's a basic mistake. I criticised Djindjic's law on extra profit and the law turned against Djindjic and political opponents. Not against me, because they couldn't find anything with me. What are you going to do now as a consequence of this? You will again cause a major escape of capital from Serbia abroad. Now they're all going to be abroad again, the value of houses will fall, the value of real estate, and nothing more. You did arrest Miskovic, but you still can't convict him and you only arrested him. (Alexander Martinovic: He was convicted. People, a lot of noise around nothing. Did Shakespeare write that? Who wrote this to Martinovic – a lot of noise about nothing? Whose was that? (Vladimir Orlic and Aleksandar Martinovic win. What? Let me say what I have now. (Alexander Martinovic: He was convicted. All right, but it's all small after all the halabuca. Who else did you condemn besides Miskovic? No one serious. You tried the burani. What Orlic just listed are tiny fish. None of these big ones were meant to be. Did God congratulate himself and speak here – God, Master, when your same Wolf attacked him in the National Assembly as a Serbian radical that he stole 11 million. Is it true? Is that what Wolfie did? Let's try him for that 11 million now. Vladimir Orlic throws. What? We have a case, but I'm not the government. I'm the opposition. I'm just criticizing your mistakes. By your performance, you will force these people who have been illegally or legally enriched, and cannot prove now that they are moving capital out of the country, because you are pursuing wealth, and you are not pursuing crimes, concrete crimes. That's what Djindjic was doing, and that's why everything went wrong, and that's why he got sick of just a few political opponents and nothing more. I had to trade oil on the world market to make money to cover extra profits for Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic and Dragan Todorovic, among other things. I'm successful at whatever business I do and there are no dirty leads behind me, Marianne. Is that what happened? One of them came out. It was at a time when Tomislav Nikolic was an honest man. Come on, get off him now. Where did the church in Bajcetina, that big hacienda, the big estate, then two houses on the Sava coast in Belgrade, unlawfully, in a place where absolutely every building is unauthorized, then the apartment on Dedinj, then two apartments on New Belgrade, and so on? Let's get away from him. It's easy to start with a wolf who didn't even want to ask himself to sign the apartment, so I signed it against his will. You have that document in the government. My signature. Come on, bite Tomislav Nikolic when you're like that. Do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63145	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63146	As for your personal dealings with one of your former associates, you know, we've already explained that, these are feelings that no one can help. Something much more important. It's a bad message to say – we intend to. We have no intention or practice so far. Everything's completely different from that. It is a bad message to say – we want someone to be burdened in any way by the fact that they are rich because of that fact. It's not like that. That's not the problem. Of course, it's our desire for society to be successful, and if anyone here can be rich, we'd be the happiest. It's another matter. This law concerns the origin of property, not what man has, but how it came to this, and no one has any objection to Gilas being rich if he is able to be fair, but he has shown his life and how he has gained, when he has acquired, in what circumstances he has acquired this abnormal wealth that he has that something is wrong. I was reporting property at the time of entry into office, and you know what it was, everything and shined in Serbia. He began from becoming the first official of his DS there in 2004. He entered the executive board, entered the main board, invented his function, gave him to be head of Tadic's office outside the Constitution and anything and his power age begins. At the time he reports himself in thousands of euros, thousands are measured the value of his property, which is savings, which the car, some companies say, had according to the Czech Republic. The companies totalled 70 euros and some thousand euros. In theory, he could have been rich at that moment, theoretically or euro over it. Then the years pass and he is also Minister of Government and Mayor after being there with Boris Tadic. It becomes an alpha and omega of its party, and its businesses are growing in private and starting to measure by millions and by tens of millions, so the total profit when you look at four companies, there are also "Darrekt Media", "Multicom" and "Ovejsn" and as it's called the fourth, you add it all together – you get to, people, 619m euros that the income side has been placed on the accounts of these companies, and it says net profits of only 105m euros. Fantasy, but not at a time when he was in any kind of business and showed that he could be rich because he was capable or I don't know what, but at a time when he was in power, when he was in power. The documents exist, they've been working for him on RTS, and he's headed for something in the state, they're not small fish, they're not tiny fish. To be a minister, not to be underestimated, to be mayor of Belgrade, not at all. At the same time, he manages companies that trade in advertising seconds, work with a public service, work with "Study B" which is directly subordinated to the city of Belgrade, which heads as Caesar Dragan Gilas, works with Telecom, which is also a state-owned firm, working with a dozen different city institutions, which are problems. These are the problems when a man says -- now I'm getting off the line, 619 million are on my company's accounts, and I admit it myself. He admits - I have 25m euros in real estate, and we rewind the movie and watch - what did you have on masters when you came to power? That's the problem. It's no one's fault that he's more or less rich than because such things can't be explained by anyone, that anywhere in the world is possible. When we say -- we have to remember that, we have to point out that, we tell the people -- don't let the bandits rob you again. Is that some kind of mistake? I'd say it's not a mistake. It's a wise course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63147	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. Professor Dr Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63148	It must all be carried out through appropriate legal standards, and you would like your standards to be an expression of self-will, not of legal principles. I'm telling you, I don't doubt the gravity of the charges against Gilas, but where it's most obvious that he was malfeasance, it's a bridge on Ada, because that bridge he took out at the end of the million? (Alexander Martinovic: Four hundred fifty million.) How much is Chinese? (Vladimir Orlic: 100, 30) One hundred thirty. That's where the crime was. Find concrete crime. Don't forget one more thing, we've been out of tax obligations for three years, and now they're getting old for five years. You can't go after someone for tax evasion, for example, when five years are up. Right? Only if the warnings are properly given, so it can extend to 10 years. You can't, don't exercise your will, somebody catch the criminals, catch those to whom it's proven. Come on, explore this Dragica Nikolic foundation. There is no greater crime among the advances than Tomislav and Dragica Nikolic, I think, or I may be mistaken, perhaps there are even bigger ones. Let's do this, not give him another 800-square villa in Dedinj to enjoy the state cost, what, five, six thousand euros or eight thousand euros each month, is paid from the budget to maintain it. So you can also make that up by the government regulation, it's corruption in the government, invent a function absolutely nonexistent, come Chinese, come Russian statesmen, where Toma Nikolic is, he's not even under the table somewhere, not in the fourth row, but he's nowhere, one that's left behind when this academy was in "Sava Center", because he likes partisan songs, so there's little to be done with him. So that's the thing. You are primarily responsible for criminals in your ranks. Don't say they're gone, there are others, and I've listed a few of them, I can't catch them all, and I hesitate, there to start a pro-Western opposition, I hesitate to interfere, so that someone doesn't equate me with them, because my position is the most sensitive I can't be with you, and I'm even less allowed to be with them, and I have to screw both of them, but only argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63149	Thank you, Professor Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63150	Well, you're shortening my time compared to my warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63151	And how I'm cutting you short. Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63152	So it's totally excessive to talk, it's self-will. We want to regulate the law. We make laws, and as I said a moment of these laws, we enforce them, and with the same arches we do according to each other, it's all just not self-will. Right? Why are we even dealing with the property origin law issue, if not why it has to be done the way the state has to function, how it can only function if it's a state. Unlike those former ones who thought that they were a state and that everything from God belonged to them, that it became their personal moment at which they came into power, we show completely different behavior. You know what the state is and how it's treated and there's no confusion. When the government forms a particular body, it corresponds to the government. And the same thing that you mentioned now works. When a certain space is placed at the disposal of that body or someone who works for the state, it belongs to the state again and none of us will put anything in our pocket. It's impossible to put the highway on. We don't do it for us to take it tomorrow. None of us can pick up the clinical centers we've raised, worked hard to build them, so we can take them to my own party office. It's made to last, it's made to keep this country. And to these young people I told them about, to serve them, to show tomorrow that they can also build it up and make it bigger and better and more. As far as that famous bridge is concerned, it's a great enigma of how many total pairs it is when the drawing is drawn. Here, they can't make their own deal. Gilas claims 160 million and won't admit any euro over it, but you know what they say next to him. For example, Vuk Jeremic, when Gilas kicked him out of the party, so Vuk Jeremic came on TV to cut against it, said Jeremic - sevenm euros in budgets they gave me, in 60 years we could have such budgets, so it could be cheaper than this Gilas bridge again, without accessing traffic. So when it's multiplied, Jeremic told Gilas at the time -- 420 million you spent on it, don't lie about it being 160 and you haven't made access to the car. If they say so themselves about each other, i.e. You can think of yourself as the whole truth. The fact is, we made the cars that were missing, so we have the Boulevar hero from Koshar, because we made it. We didn't deal with what wasn't finished and whose fault it was that it wasn't. Ours always cares that there is, to be made, to work, to serve, to provide for the people and the state. That's all we care about, the law to respect, to be one archaic towards all, to know what the state is and who makes it a state. And whoever's here with whom he can't or can't, it seems like the last topic to me. That's the least important. If we're talking about the state, we're talking about values, if we're talking about people's interests, we're talking about values, and it doesn't matter what anyone can or shouldn't do, but what they belong to. With such, with a former regime that robbed everything he could, which thousands, like Gilas had to report assets when he entered power, and dozens and hundreds of millions when he came down from office, an honest man has nothing to ask. It's not a question of whether or not it's because it can't, but because it's on the side of truth, justice, law and ultimately, on Serbia's side or if it's with them, then it's clear, it's not. You and those with Serbia have never had anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63153	The word is by Professor Vojislav Seselj, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63154	First, Tomislav Nikolic is not former. He's your present, he's now the bearer of high state functions. He's not the President of the Republic, but he's the head of this coordination body for co-operation with Russia and China. It's the government's authority. Let's go first, you're on my arm here. You have to admit, I'm not saving even these pro-Western ones, and I'm even worse at them. You yourself use a lot of arguments that I first drew against them, right. Here's a concrete example, prove your principle on it. You can't tear down two villas on the Sava coast yet. (Vladimir Orlic: Which villas? What fairies? Let me take you now to show you, do you know how to swim an Orlic? (Alexander Martinovic: When did he make them? He made them while he was president of the Republic. (Alexander Martinovic: And he had nothing before? He was naked and barefoot? Before that he had... He was naked and barefoot until I went to The Hague. He had one house in the suburbs of Kragujevac and had an apartment that he received from the Serbian government in Belgrade. He didn't have anything in Bychetin. So that's what he had until I went to The Hague, and after they started landing him all over, with lots of money, then he got sick of being greedy, and that's the most severe disease. It's worse than cancer. I've mastered cancer, but greed cannot be overcome. Now, that's your founder and first president, prove your principle, and then take your turn. Then take me on the wallpaper right now, and you'll find what those of The Hague found. So that's what you have to clean up, and you don't. If you want to prove yourself a crime fighter, first, clean the criminals out of your ranks. For Gilas, you can find evidence of crime, with evidence of crime, a massive seizure of property can be carried out. Anything that is proven to have been acquired by crime can be taken by law, and this way, if they ask him to prove it, you will come into a situation that this will all fall to you in Strasbourg, do not play with it. Someone's pulling you in. Go, stick to the Criminal Code and prosecute criminals by the Criminal Code. Don't make up legal principles, God didn't create you as a legal genius. He was a better lawyer than me, he had all tens, a better student, but he's not a better lawyer. Now, keep that in mind, that's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63155	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Now straight to the line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63156	Now, I say well, we adopt laws, we enforce laws, we can say equal archaics applied to all, and even to people who may in any way belong or belong to SNS, there are already cases as evidence. Whenever there's an organized action in this country, and we're talking about it in this room, it's just, of course, he knows who's here. We say -- here, you see, there are people from different parties, there are from this, from that, there are some of ours, we don't have a problem with that at all. So we always talk about principles. If we're going to talk about principles and be correct until the end, I can't understand that someone thinks it's a sin that a man has on his father's estate a house, and he had it at a time when he was your deputy, right? (Vojislav Seselj: He had no. Had. The same village, the same place, or he says, it's a sin that a man made a cottage, and he did it at the time when he was your deputy, right? Well, then how come it wasn't a problem? (Vojislav Seselj: It is not true. ( b) How was it not a problem? That's not the point, so I've already said, personal relationships and some previous-year burdens, which are why people just don't think well of each other, so it's often a topic here. That's one thing. But if you're dealing with the state, you can't be personal and you can never make any parallel with cases that weigh hundreds of millions of euros. The biggest problem is in that story, of course, I'm talking about Dragan Gilas again. When I say the former regime, I mean you. The biggest problem in this story is whose money it was and how it came about, but what else could have been used if it was people's money. You see, if it's about the money that comes from the public service RTS, I already see it as folk money. If it's money that comes from a trade with Telecom, which is a state-owned takeover, I also see it as folk money. If it's about different institutions, institutions, cities, which are republican, I also see it as folk money again, and that's the biggest problem in the whole story. What we could do in this country to measure millions, dozens or even hundreds of millions of euros, that we didn't have greedy people at the head of this country, such as Djilas, that Jeremic, those who still funded it, so they continued today. So that's what everyone needs to worry about, that's what a citizen needs to have in mind when asked. We're going to have another election in a few months from today, and that's what people should have in mind, with everything they're doing today, hysterical, noisy, what they are, so as Nazis, they're burning books, and they're waving their hangers, and they're waving motor saws, so they're threatening who's not with us, so let's choose whether they're going to hang out or they're going to take a bullet in the forehead. They're all wonderful and wonderful offers and citizens can hear and understand, but to know what's behind it all. It's this blasphemy, jagged, insecure need to get together, get rich, and get 100m euros of folk money again, put in private pockets. That's what you did, Gilas, Jeremic and the others, and it's our duty to warn the people and to do business. Any one of us who loves or doesn't love him, wants to hurt him by burning him in a debate in the congregation or on television. It's much less important, even trivial, compared to whether it's causing damage to the state and whether it's causing harm to the people. As far as SNS is concerned, Alexander Vukic has said it many times, and we have stood behind these words many times, and you know we will always, the state and the people are sacred. When he steals a country, he doesn't mean anything to anyone but himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63157	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63158	You're inappropriately using this huge argument. I was the first to bring out the data for Jeremic how he stole money from the state register by traveling around the world and spending on the most expensive hotels. I brought out the whole book on TV about it while you were silent, until you had no idea. You don't have to teach me that. I found out that he's a Latvian. I attacked Gilas for the bridge. But don't qualify my criticism as my personal relationship with someone, because when I say that the corruption affair of the Serbian government, the Tomislav Nikolic case, is not my personal relationship. Did the Serbian government bring in a regulation that he was using a 800-square-square state villa and after his term as president of the Republic? Will each president of the Republic take one 800 square-square villa at the end? Let's get it into the law or the Constitution. It's a Serbian government regulation. Here, the data is also published by the press on the criminal affairs of his wife's foundation and there's no sign of who was giving money to the foundation, no sign of where all the money was spent. She's now forming a new foundation to transfer the property from that old one to liquidate the old one and destroy the old one's documentation. Has the Serbian government invented the role of co-ordinator, how is this function, the National Council for Co-ordination of Relations with China and Russia? Were the Chinese officials in Belgrade, Russian high-ranking officials recently involved Tomislav Nikolic? Does he have any part in it? There isn't any. There's 20, 30 people there, they're getting nice salaries, and that's it. That's how you waste money from your budget. Is that corruption? Of course it is. Let's clean ourselves up from such affairs. Clean yourselves up and then you're calm. This is just how you're setting me up, and I have to do it this way, because it's a corruption affair, and so do those at the Djordjevic Ministry, right, Minister? If you were in charge, you'd take action.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63159	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Now straight to the line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63160	Yes, only that this Office of Co-operation with Russia and China serves any of us, that it is for co-operation with Russia and China for Vladimir Orlic, or for Serbia's Filipovic, or Igor Becic, so I would understand. But since it is an office serving this state and the government of Serbia, as one can say -- I say it serves nothing, and there is no result and effect as evidence to show that some effect is zero. On the contrary, what is our co-operation with Russia and China today? I'd say better than ever. Of course, the most worthy is, for that is the case, Alexander Vukic, and of course he has his own role and government, the resolutional ministries, but also bodies like that office. It participates together, and if you have a result that's better than ever, it's hard to say it doesn't serve anything. So if that result was zero, you could say everything that you've set up and dedicated to it, you've invested for nothing. But, like this, it's very hard to tell what it's for. Another thing, about the story of different foundations. I expected this debate to take place in the direction of funding certain foundations that are said to have been generously funded, such a humanist, funded by Dragan Gilas, you have seen this perhaps in the previous days, on whether or not someone is interesting DS. I liked it when I read it, so at first I thought the case was being referred to. So, the man who bought his party, the former party, put himself in his pocket, 11 million earned in one move, by taking a debt of 49 million, paid him 38, and then put his former party in his pocket with all 49 and 11. Then you put green interest on them as they're whining you out of the DS right now. Well, he says -- I generously pick up some small interest rates, I give them back through their foundation, so it turns out there's no money. It was, to tell you the truth, funny thing to read is how they still gnaw each other and argue where the money went. They say, some hundreds of thousands of euros are at stake, so it occurred to me that maybe that's what they're referring to. But it's really symbolically funny money, when I talk about rows, sizes, real problems, symbolic money compared to the damage these people have done. We, no one else, talked about how Jeremic spends on the white world but also what he spends, it seems, and these days here, for example, in that 2017 campaign in millions of euros. Millions of euros were measured by the money he spent at the time. He started the campaign with, as he said, I have 17% rating and ended up with two times less than Beli Preletevic. For what? Because we told the people the truth. Strong millions arrive here, and wherever they come from, from the white world, from strange destinations, arriving from the cataract embassy in Germany, arriving from the cataract embassy in the U.S. It has to be determined what it pays a man, what kind of service, and then it's what, Patrick Ho stuck in jail. We were, no one else, talking about Dragan Gilas and these cases that I'm talking about right now. So if we're talking about who wants to tell the people the truth, who's not afraid to tell the truth and support the data, it's always been the SNS. When you say Alexander Vukic to certain things, you're right and we agree on that, you know who was always the bravest, but who was always without any calculations going to protect both the state and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63162	Last sentence. When we talk about these things we want to be precise to the end, it doesn't matter what they call themselves, or how much they have, whether it's at the expense of the citizens of this country and the state itself, because it's about tycoons who took it all while they were involved in politics and politics, but it can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63163	Thank you, Dr. President. An eagle. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63164	Who is the bravest among the living Serbs knows that Serbian people well. Well, doesn't she vote for him? He does not always vote for the bravest, but for him who gives him the best promises. In the bravest, he trusts only in critical moments, and in the elections he votes to the one who makes the most receptive promises and who has propaganda in his hands. Orlic, you know I didn't get my oars off, that I had some knowledge, I guess, for all the years I've acquired and well established. We have the Tomislav Nikolic case, which received a million euros in 2007 or 2008 for a pre-election campaign from Stanko Subotic, so he put the money in his pocket, and owed the party a huge foreign exchange loan with 19% of the annual interest. Martinovic knows that very well. (Alexander Martinovic: What were you running for? Look, when I found out he was in charge, it was too late. You rarely used to come to me with Martinovic so I could have all the fast information. (Alexander Martinovic: Why did you run for president? I found out after he did. It's not true, it's not true. Ask the Wolf if it's true or not, don't speak up. Secondly, you know one thing, here's to be honest, when I most want to piss off Vukic, I say that he is the political son of Tom Nikolic, and that's what Toma Nikolic said, most of the time I anger him, but he doesn't react publicly. And you have made him even more angry, in fact Orlic, when he said that Aleksandar Vukic is always consulting with Tom Nikolic when he strengthens ties with Russia and China. When I didn't have a heart attack at that point, I'd live for at least 100 years, it was so funny. How are you gonna explain it when you first see Wolfie, that's another question. Say it's my fault you ran into my fault. Yeah, you ran into yourself with my fault. What could he have contributed to? Nothing. We know what he was in the Serbian Radical Party in his time, only the vice president now what knew the good standard political rhetoric of the party to bring out in public and nothing more, as soon as he started thinking on his own, everything blew up and you had to get rid of him very quickly, because the statement caught up, the people laughed at you. You had to get rid of him, didn't you? Yes, it is. Now, as a form of social assistance, some of your humanism, you give it a 800 square-square villa for unlimited enjoyment. He doesn't need to stay away from death. You didn't limit how long he'd be there. Second of all, as far as function goes, nice money drops out of the government every month, out of the budget, everything's safe, hires whoever they want, no one gets involved in it. That's it, that's the kind of corruption. Come on, learn something, learn something from a better lawyer than yourself, it's kind of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63165	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Right on the replica Vladimir Orlic. We have a lot of people who want to get involved in the debate and Professor Stojmirovic, we have a lot of reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63166	I'll take this one, Mr. Chairman, as a suggestion to me to let others say something else. It's not a problem. You're welcome to let whoever wants it turn on. I can only say that since it's all the way we heard it, the people you mentioned aren't at that level of political thought and ability like you, then it looks like you've become president of the Republic of Serbia, not any of them. Is that what happened? Or wasn't that the way it was? Then think about what it was like and why. As far as the party's inauguration, the SNS finance, we're always perfectly calm, clean as a pharmacy. There has never been any malfeasance, nor will there be today, nor will there ever be. We got some things confused, the other party ended up in heavy debt because of the malfeasances she was dealing with, and I talked about her a little while ago. (Vojislav Seselj: Which party? ) The Democratic Party, you know how much they burdened themselves with debt because they were convinced being in power forever and they're going to shut it down again with some papers, they're going to be eaten by a donkey wolf, so it turns out they didn't, so it turns out they stayed in a lot of millions, they put it under a variety of mortgages and cars and apartments, all of what they picked up while they were in power. Well, in the end, if I were to go back to what I said, their former leader, Gilas Dragan, who put them in that situation, would come to earn their debt, or to buy it, a few million, and today, he's strangling them with green interest, as they say. That's what they had. It's never with us. Something much more important, which is why this debate began two or three minutes ago, you said, people vote for the one who best promises, not for the most capable, not for the bravest, not for the one who speaks the truth, but for the one who promises the best. Well, there's living proof for you, Alexander Wolf and SNS that that's not the case. So someone at a given moment can come up with great popularity, it happened in this country, but that popularity goes on without showing the result, never happened. Today, the popularity of Alexander Vukic and the SNS has been measured for years, and you know why? Because it has results, because every word is true. Because it's shown when people say we're going to do it together like that, and so it's usually realized. In this hall, Aleksandar Vucic spoke in 2014, there will be higher salaries when we complete fiscal consolidation, there will be higher pensions. The former regime laughed. They came from themselves, no matter what the stories were to get a voice at some point. And he tells them, "No, we'll do everything the opposite, we'll do what takes away votes, but we'll do it because it's smart, because it's healing for the state." And, you know, we know what we're doing, it's gonna be better at the end than it's ever been, and it's gonna be 500 euros. He got up here one of the former leaders of the yellow company and said -- he will never, and I'm so convinced that we will never, ever, ever, ever vote for you if you ever get paid in Serbia for 500 euros. In November 2019, here we are on the day of today, look at the statistics for the November month when it comes somewhere in December. Is it going to be 500 euros? Here, we tell you a creature. Is that proof that this people never lied, that whenever Alexander Vukic said, there was going to be a highway, there was a highway. When he said we'd bring investors, there was an investor. When he said there would be factories in those parts of Serbia that God had forgotten, there always were. That is what the people believe, and that is what the people say. You have shown great honor to know what you are doing, and we want that policy with you, which has proved to be successful, we continue to follow. We trust Alexander Vukic, and that's the answer to that question, 55% of the votes went in the first round. Did it happen to anyone else here, as much as you think is better than the other one? Well, it's nobody. You know what, they won't tell anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63167	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63168	You know, you're still at the peak of popularity, that's true, I don't slow it down, but you're a little shaken up right now, just because of cases like this, which you're not going to react to in a timely manner, and you're taking people out of your ranks and prescribing. Watch out, keep an eye out, nobody's burned till dawn. You're wasting a little, a little Wolf's authority. It shows in public. As for the relationship between him and me, on the political stage, I am aware that he is now stronger, incomparably stronger, I have never slowed it down. I once made a mistake believing his promise not to run for President of the Republic, so I hit Tommy Nikolic with all my might, broke him completely and then Vukic ran. One more thing, if I had known that President Putin would have supported him two, three days before the election, I wouldn't have submitted to the candidacy or dead. So these were the two factors why I even ran out into the field. I don't usually run out in the field if I don't have a chance to win. That's it. But no one's burned till dawn. Secondly, from Vukic's soul, what broke out in Novi Sad, we Serbian radicals, as he said. Many of you carry it in your soul. Third, since my return from The Hague, Vucic's public appearances and political orientation have gradually changed. It's not the wolf I found running the campaign to wake the Americans up for selling the modern-day Iron. This is Vucic, who is again quite a Serbian patriot, more and more. Right? It cannot be more than two terms of office. I'm in excellent physical condition for 100 years. For me, Micunović is a small child as far as I'm going to push into politics. As for Gilas, you've been making Orlic harder than I've been defending Gilas all along. Well, I pulled a gun on Gilas in 1992, when he brought the crowd to the National Assembly to lynch me. They've got all the TV that footage of me raising my gun and Gilas running first as long as his feet are carrying him and crowding after him, of course. (Alexander Martinovic: You did not aim well. I didn't want to shoot either, I wanted to scare them a little bit. The crowd comes in right away. It wasn't me, I wasn't even holding my finger on the trigger, it was on the tape, but nobody noticed, they were so scared. There, that's it. Don't give me Gilas here. I never wanted any co-operation with Gilas. (Alexander Martinovic: What about Milovan? No, but with this Dragan Gilas of yours you gave him to be, was he president of the basketball union, where he was? He was good to you back then. With Milovan Gilas, I was in solidarity while he was being politically persecuted. (Alexander Martinovic: And what killed 5,000 Serbs in Montenegro? Hold on, hold on. Many communists have killed, and he is one of the few penitent. But as soon as he was free to go public and announce, and he went further to the anti-Serbian coalition, I attacked him again in 1990 and 1991, so I attacked him to death. You should know that to Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: I know, that's why I'm asking you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63169	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Now we've reached Milovan Gilas. (Vojislav Seselj: They are not related. I've been looking into that, too. ) The word has Dr. Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63170	What can I say? It should have been expected that he could only support Vladimir Putin Alexander Vukic. I guess that's what everyone in this country expected, because it is known that Serbia has this kind of relationship and that level of relationship with the Russian Federation that it has today. I could honestly only expect it, I expected it, I believe everyone else is. And not just when it comes to Vladimir Putin. Other friends of ours from the world, to look at, was it not clear what they saw as the best solution for Serbia. It is quite clear that we have this kind of best possible relationship, as we have with everyone today, both in the West and the East, because Alexander Vukic made Serbia a serious state, a state that knows what he wants, which protects his interest, which is thus becoming a partner to everyone. She doesn't tell one story to another, she knows what her interest is, and she clearly tells the whole world, she fights for it, and she works on it. That's why they respect us, among other things, Vladimir Putin respects us. I don't know if it surprised anyone else in this country. As far as these other things are concerned, whether we're patriot enough yesterday, today, we, the two of us, are not at all arguing about it at all. We agree that Alexander Vukic is an honest patriot, only, speaking of which, you see then, there are in those benches of yours that often say that treason is what Alexander Vukic does. Talk about it. I think those people are making a big mistake, and I can see that you agree with that, and whose is and what is Dragan Gilas? By the way, you're exactly the same as allowing yourself the luxury of making such an accusation about the burden of Alexander Vukic or the SNS, and I can see that you disagree and I'm glad you disagree. Well, they set you up to cooperate with that same Gilas when they could arrange something at some level. I think it was the city level in Belgrade. These are the things that you have to deal with if you're honest in these words, so I'll leave a little time, the chairman asked me, for others to speak here. It's not a question of whether it will burn any of us personally by dawn. It is not our desire that we be in the position of the parliamentary majority or that they organise anything in this country forever. We want Serbia to be better for us. We want to do something for our house. The only goal, the only motive we see in public work, such as this political one, is to serve our country. It means being a member of the SNS, it means publicly representing SNS policy, it means following that policy established by Aleksandar Vukic. Serbia to love itself above all else and its country and its people to serve. I don't think you need a stronger motive than that when you judge us, or when you conclude what drives us, Serbia and nothing else!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63171	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Professor Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63172	A whole series of topics, your guilt, though, but I have to give an answer, at least to these basics. When I became president of the municipality in 1996, in Zemun, we Serbian radicals had an absolute majority, without the previous one, but when we formed boards of public enterprises and other municipal authorities, we proportionally invited members of all other parties to take part. From all the parties were representatives, even the Civil League we first gave the office, until then they never had it. Our principle is today what you're talking about. It happened while I was still The Hague, but with my consent, when we were offered to take part in the boards of directors at the city level, I said take it. First, our frames will learn a lot there. Second, we'll control what the government does. Today, in various places in Serbia, we are in a coalition with you, with Democrats in the Old Town, so Bastac was kicked out of the party because he joined us in the coalition, because they had a strict order not to be allowed with radicals, it has existed since Tadic. Well, with Shabic, we have in New Belgrade, with other parties in some parts of Serbia. At the local level, and we are starting from what kind of man is, of course, I am not solidarity with Bastic, in his political performances that are out of concern for the Old Town municipality, and on the Old Town municipality we work well, in Užica I also work well, we are there with socialists and promoters, our goal is to get our people into the local level of government wherever possible successful co-operation. We're making sure someone doesn't go into crime. You, who were among radicals, especially those who were ministers, know the discipline among our ministers. Rada Trajkovic was removed from all functions and left the party because I prevented her from promoting her brother and calling the municipal court judge at the District Court in Nis, that was the reason. The one Blazic from Kickinda, we reviled him at the presidential college because his ministry sponsored some country football club by buying them uniforms. That's the kind of control she was. The only thing I found in the police file after that was some kind of malfeasance of Jorgenka Tabakovic, which I didn't find in the government. All radical ministers, therefore, were impeccable. When that government collapsed, after three years, we all went out, the bloated skies and the earth combed and couldn't find any crime, no corruption. Never and nowhere. Now, that's the example we call upon, and we believe that from that point of view we must criticise your government as well. Because in your current government, not all such people are. But I'm not generalizing. I'm not saying they're all thieves. As for Vukic and the charges of treason, the charges were because he had betrayed the party at a certain point. We attacked both packages of Brussels agreements, asked them to be annulled by the Constitutional Court, you know what the Constitutional Court's decision was, that it wasn't legal but political acts, but it was legal consequences. And as for his current moves to defend Serbia's sovereignty, territorial integrity, his head didn't hurt for four or five years on our side. Is that true?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63173	Yes, it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63174	If we loved you, we didn't love you, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63175	The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63176	It doesn't matter if we love each other. I guess we don't love each other, but that's the least important thing in the whole story. How glad I am to hear that this is being taken care of that it is, absolutely, in the interest of the state and the people what Alexander Vukic is doing, so much to me, I must admit, is not glad to hear this just before I heard on the subject of forming a coalition at different levels, when it is said here - the commitment is based on whether someone is a good man, or what kind of man he is. Then it turns out that Bastac is a good man as soon as he's working with him. And I really can't understand that. I can't understand what's good and useful for citizens of Old Town, Belgrade or anyone in this country, what's good and useful when building sites around the city of Belgrade are being destroyed? What is good and useful when over 100 million debt is made at the level of a sports center? Who's that useful to? Or that politically, on the mufti, he's working with those leftovers of a yellow company who are now sending their televisions out from Sapac to set up their TV studios in the Old Town districts, so that this Dragan Gilas can sit there all day long on the couch and talk about Alexander Vukic being a traitor, that he's a thief, that I don't know what he is. Who's that useful to? The old town isn't, Belgrade isn't, no one else is. So, to co-operate politically on both the local level and with people you disagree with at national level, that's quite clear. It is an alphabet of political relations and it makes perfect sense for me that everyone wants to co-operate with SNS representatives, in the Belgrade municipality, in Uzic, in any fifth place. But what I don't understand, now I've explained -- I really don't understand it. Turns out a good man and this Bastac and that Gilas when your representatives were involved in their boards of directors. Well, he wasn't a good man then, not today. You say we're in control. What did we control? What did you control? If anything had been controlled, we wouldn't be talking today if a man had made money working with Studio B, and you had a representative there on studio B's supervisory board. It couldn't have been controlled like that. Did that stop Gilas from getting rich? Well, it's not. Not in that place, not in any fifth place. If that were possible, if that were realistic, we wouldn't be talking on the subject today, and we agree that hundreds of millions were broken into the bridge, that hundreds of millions ended up in private companies' accounts. So it's not like that. It's not a commitment. Some other things, unfortunately, far more groundbreaking than some high quality to man have ruled there. All we have to do is be honest to the end and say how things stand, if we agree, and I believe that we agree that thieves should not rule at the community level or at the city level, let alone at the state level. Then we have a clear relationship to both Gilas and Bastac and these others who are all the leaders of the Old Town, who imitated the Nazi stakes here 15 days ago. They were taken, recognized, you have their photos in the press. The books were on fire, people were trying to lynch. That's all, just not good. When we say that Serbia does not think well, they do not want well, Gilas, Bastic and the others, we say it because of these things. There's no calculator. That's where the party is chosen. Either you're on Serbia's side, or you're on the side of those people who take care of their boss, their pocket, and nothing else, because nothing in this country has ever been sacred to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63177	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on line, Professor Vojislav Seselj. I'm trying to have the same time in replicas and I think I'm very correct and precise here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63178	If Maya becomes a minister, I will suggest that you be the president of the National Assembly. As far as Bastica is concerned, I already said. In 2016 there were elections. He was expelled from the Democratic Party because he joined us in the coalition. (Vladimir Orlic): What is he now? ) Are we involved in his activities outside the Old Town municipality? (Vladimir Orlic: You hold his authority in Old Town. If there's a crime in Old Town, why don't you send the inspectors to establish it? Set it up. I don't trust anyone in my word, especially politicians and journalists. Secondly, you resent us for being with Bastic in the coalition, and you are in the coalition in Novi Sad, listen to Martinovic, let him listen, see that he's already lost his mind, you're in Novi Sad in a coalition with Nenada Canka. (Alexander Martinovic: Can I get involved a little bit? You can't, I'm in the middle of it, not with you, and I came to you on the way. With Nenad Canka, hey, the synonym of evil in Serbia, according to the ideology it represents, according to the political programme. You are in a coalition with Cedomir Jovanovic, yet you have forgiven him sixm euros in debts in the name of some wheat he took from the state reserve. (Alexander Martinovic: Where are we in the coalition? ) You are in the coalition by forgiving him of criminal prosecution and he serves you here as evidence that you have more than one opposition party in the Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic: Where is he now? I don't know where he is, I'm not his nanny. (Alexander Martinovic: Well, you say it's in the Assembly. ) Then you are in a coalition of the municipality with Sulejman Ugljanin, and then you are in a coalition with the symbol of all evils, with Vuk Draskovic and you artificially maintain in the life of his party, which has inflicted the most evil on Serbia. He has two more MPs in the National Assembly, is that so, thanks to you. I'd have shut myself down a long time ago if it wasn't for you. Djindjic didn't want it in 2000 either. I spoke on several occasions when we had that dinner in Jagodina, after our television duel and nearly Vukic nearly beat Djindjic, so he barely calmed down somehow, when Djindjic said that the wolf invented an assassination in Budva and that Vuk Draskovic was a piece of shit. That's what he said. Aleksandar Vukic is my witness and Dragan Markovic Palma and Ceda Jovanovic, who was present. You have kept Vuk Draskovic in political life all these years. He ruined us in The Hague before the International Court of Justice. Radet Stojanovic, who again betrayed and did not insist that The Hague tribunal was illegal, and the International Court of Justice called solely for one UN tribunal verdict to prove that there was a genocide in Srebrenica. Instead of saying that the court was formed against the UN Charter, he was silent. He wanted all the burden to fall on Republika Srpska because he received a directive from Vuk Draskovic – you can defend Serbia, but be sure to destroy Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63179	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63180	You'll find it really hard to find a problem with Serbia's relation to Republika Srpska today. (Vojislav Seselj: Who put the grudge out, come on? ) Is Republika Srpska mentioned in the context of something bad that can be tied to us? Has the Hague court been mentioned? Come on, find a grudge in your relationship. You won't find it. (Vojislav Seselj: Zamirka is against Vuk Draskovic. We know you won't find it, and you won't find justice under the International Court of Justice. All those who have done these things, which you would like to criticize, criticise freely, are now on the other side. They're right next to Dragan Gilasu's lap. So we're starting to talk about it, you say - we're working with someone based on what a good man is. I cannot be astounded and say, "Well, does that mean that Bastaq is a good man for you?" Is it possible for you that this means that Gilas is a good man? I can't believe that. Now we want to defend it by talking – the SNS has coalitions. There is, and you know what the difference is, and ask around, we've been arguing with those who accused Wolfie of treason and all sorts of other things on his behalf, and I see you disagree and it's good that you disagree? We've already explained it to them. The difference is very large. Whoever wants to support the policy we're running for, then they'll follow that policy. The policy set by Alexander Vukic is being conducted by the SNS. She can join in, support her whoever she wants, everything's fine. But it doesn't support Bastic your policy, it doesn't support Gilas your policy in Belgrade, back then. By the way, you're in the role of those who followed their misdeeds, I must say. Is it a fact or is it not over 100 million dinars of damage to the SC "Milan Gale Muskatirović" by Bastac today? What do you support here? Is that your value? No, it's his, and you support it by holding him in power. She threw him out of the DS, so what? Who's holding him in power today, with or without that party? Who holds him in power today when he became the right hand of Dragan Gilas for the city of Belgrade, that Gilas, that sort of Gilas, that and that kind of Bastic? He is his trustee for the city of Belgrade. Who's holding him in power? Is it worth it that from the propaganda of Sabac TV and from the Old Town municipality building today evil and poison throughout Serbia is sowing? Who gives it to him? The one who holds him in power. Millions just ate the dark on the Geronto housewife case. Is that the value to be used, is that the value to be supported? What do you support her for? How many, in fact, tens of millions of dinars went to private beatings funded and funded by this and such Bastac, the right hand of that and such Gilas, from the municipal budget? Who gives it to him? The one holding him in power? Are these values, are they examples of good, quality people worth working with? Serbia's advanced party and Aleksandar Vukic can support anyone who wants to follow Serbia's defence policy, fight for Serbia and work for Serbia. Who is and what value does one who supports a Bastac maintain in power? So what? That there's from where, from which budget to fund his craziness when he attacks people, harasss workers, knocks down fences, children's toys on a stake like he's in someone, God save me, a ritual, and then shows that he can imitate 1933 and Munich, burn books. There's no value here. There are differences as large as heaven and earth. If we want to talk about these things, we can, and think hard about who's worth it to. Something I'm sure doesn't pay you the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63181	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on line, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63182	In 2016 Bastac defied the management of the DS that threatened him with exclusion, it was a courageous act for us and we appreciate it for it. The government hasn't broken down for us for a moment. You've brought a whole series of charges here. Where's your evidence? Why don't you send a budget inspection to find out if it's true or not, how the money was spent and what it was spent on? It's a budget inspection, and I'm not doing it or any of our members of the municipal council or any other body. Send a budget inspection and take measures, because you're the government. You can't say that there's crime, corruption, theft, embezzlement, and you don't do anything about it. We can do this, we opposition, because we don't have the Ministry of Power in our hands, and you have the army and the police, the gendarmes and the customs and the mailmen. Are the postmen armed? Not yet. (Vladimir Orlic: You are the government, you are not the opposition. We're just government at the local level, we're opposition in the state, but we're not opposition to the state. If you have evidence of embezzlement, take them out. Give the budget inspection, but Vuk Draskovic never accepted your policy. He only accepted to remain alive as a parliamentary party with two or three MPs. Now he's shrinking too. He had three, so now two, and today he publishes texts in "Today", where he attacks all those who defend Kosovo within Serbia's borders, where he attacks all those who are for friendship with Russia, where he opposes all Serbian national interests, attacks Republika Srpska. That's what he's still doing. He never showed up anywhere to support your policy, except that the statement is, behold, supporting that he is a Vukic for EU membership, so as his reason for entering the coalition. At all the points of your policy, he publicly opposes you and when I asked that question directly here to Vuk Draskovic, he said he had some reason, in some way to repay himself, because he once was not exactly according to Vuk Draskovic perhaps correct or some expression he used. You can't do that. Therefore, you can resent us for being with the various coalitions, but you have been and are still with much worse. Bastac cannot be compared to Vuk Draskovic, however much he has taped up there, mud unloaded before the Assembly, etc. The wolf Draskovic made us blue in front of the whole world. I remember how much that brigade broke through its subversive activity in 1990 and 1991. We went to put together these newly disbanded brigades that were supposed to go to protect the Serbian country and the Serb people. I was in The Hague for the crime of Vuk Draskovic. I was accused of everything his guard did in the area of Lake Boraška – killing civilians, women, children and even keeping young Muslims in sexual slavery for two or three years. Well, that's why I hung out in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63183	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. (Borisav Kovacevic: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kovacevic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63184	Here, it'll be 12 hours and 30 minutes. (Vojislav Seselj: How much is it now? It's no good for you, Kovacevic. 12 hours and 30 minutes in two or three minutes. (Vojislav Seselj: You're no good for the watch.) That's what you think. If I'm not mistaken, we ended up with questions about 15 minutes to 11. Mr. Chairman, I'm speaking to you. It's on the agenda of the General Product Safety Act, in particular. I hope you and everyone else understand what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63185	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. We have a democratic open debate. That's what Parliament's for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63186	About what?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63187	I'm just here to support it. (Borisav Kovacevic: It is not right to support the debate outside the agenda. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Borisav Kovacevic: Yes. - Yes, you do. Thank you. The only thing I can do as chairman is support this kind of debate, which is why we're here. I'm ready to work till tonight, as long as it takes. The right to replica has Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63188	It's all right, Mr. Chairman, if you ask me. Look at this. This is an example that shows how inconsistencies you really are. Vojislav Seselj: What? How inconsistencies you have in your relationship. You say, when something bad comes out that Bastac you're holding in power in Old Town, there's no evidence because it hasn't been decided and you can't be determined by it because there's no verdict. On the other hand, how many times in every session do we hear from you accusing people of government and calling for your word to be trusted? No convictions, no convictions. Of course, we believe that people are not guilty of what you say, and you insist and say, "No matter what you say, they will be believed in the word when you say it, and here you are looking for judgments for your associates, or for the people you hold in power." I don't think it's very consistent until the end, but you know what, you can make sure of the fact that you're not any opposition in Old Town, you're the government there. You can come up with documents, report, so you can see black on white, is that exactly what I'm saying, or is it not true, whether millions of missing for these "helps in the house" programs, or not, have spent tens of millions on imaginary associates who are actually personal bodyguards, criminals some Bastaches. You can make it all right there, you're the government there, you get all the paperwork. Is it true what we're talking about at the sports center or not? It's all recorded and recorded. No one's a hindrance to you to determine these things. What's more important, when you say it -- someone's been plowing the state in front of the world, so it's the biggest problem for you, I really don't understand how different than a terrible slap to the state of Serbia, as the excretion of the saliva glands on the face of Serbia, a man can interpret what is in front of the Progress gallery radio Bastac with all the management of the Old Town municipality, which you hold in power. That, people, is a disgrace to Serbia. It's the destruction of our reputation in the world. In the days when the Inerparliamentary Union is held in this country in Belgrade, more than 150 countries in the world have sent their most state delegations to host them here, to show Belgrade and Serbia, to strengthen our relations, to show what a free nation country looks like, people who can be friends with everyone in the world, how can no one else in Europe, no other country in Europe could be the host to Serbia, what does Bastic and his fools do? They say -- here are a few episodes of Nazism in 1933 in the middle of Belgrade, and then in Opernplac Berlin to turn Prince Michael's street, to embarrass us in this way, in front of 150 state delegations from all over the world. I think it's a shame for Serbia, so such a shame as this country didn't happen, I don't remember it. No one has ever allowed themselves to burn books in this country. It wasn't during World War II, or during those crises, the challenges we had in the '90s. There have also been difficult times, and there have been hatreds in the people, but there have never been such phenomena. That's what they did in 2019, out of pure peace, you'd say. It's a shame for the country. If we talk about who harms in the land, I say, it is the right ones, to the people who have robbed them unmistakably, but also to the reputation of the earth, how clever and wise they are. And to hold them in power, to give them the opportunity to use people's resources to do you and things like that, so I don't think there's any rational justification for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63189	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the replica of Professor Vojlisav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63190	Orlic, I thought here was just, as his name was, Borisav Kovacevic matured in gerontology, and for a moment I thought you were. You just said, "I'm credited with it."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63191	Dr. Seselj, don't, there's no need for...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63192	It's nothing offensive, it exists as an institution. It can wait for us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63193	Don't, there's no need for that. We've had a nice discussion so far, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63194	You're still young, so you don't know what it means to step in age. Anyway, Orlic is young too, so I'm surprised. Orlic, I didn't mention that he should have been convicted, processed, but that you didn't take action. If we haven't established, through our people who work there, who are there in the structure of the government, what are you, who have the government and the state authorities, not sent a budget inspection to determine that? I listen to you like this, I'm sorry, I don't trust you. If a budget inspection went there and proved something, maybe you'd believe her. (Vladimir Orlic: Well, she was. So, did she file a report? Well, then what's the matter? (Vladimir Orlic): Then you were made not to see. We didn't do anything. (Vladimir Orlic: Here, now pretend.) That's not true. I didn't see that report. (Vladimir Orlic: report to the man. Send me that report. As for the burning of books, we Serbian radicals are absolutely against it. But again, you'd make me charge Bastac. Here, we see on television that others did it, that there is Branko Miljuš and others with him, the son of Brana Miljuš, whom I discovered as a plagiarist in Sarajevo in 1981 and eventually went to eight years in prison for it. (Vladimir Orlic): Where does Branko work? What does he do? I don't know, maybe he's already retired. He's older than me. (Vladimir Orlic: The one that burned in Old Town.) I don't know about my son, really. How do I know that? It's like I run Old Town's staff policy. If a man had qualifications and an employee in a particular place and was wanted by the ruling majority, what do I have to interfere with? First, I didn't stay for life against Brana Miljuš. His master's been taken away from him. He re-applied to the Belgrade postgraduate, mastered, doctored. A man can't suffer all his life. I can't go after him because he's the son of Brana Miljuš. But if he set the book on fire and if there's evidence, then at least two months of criminal law has to get it, because it's not a crime, but it is an act that led to a serious public disturbance, because it associates with fascism. If there's anything associated with fascism, it's arson books. And here's my attitude to it, and I've always been. I'm against Titus and Cardello's books falling. When I came to the municipality of Zemun, I found a bunch there and said to destroy it, in old paper. No, I'm saying, I'm gonna sell it at auction and sell one at a time at a auction and give it to the poor kids or the kids of the fallen fighters. Well, that's my relationship to the book. I'm against being burned down by the Main Camp. I have a copy at home. I bought a Croatian edition of Zagreb from 20 years ago. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: You read in foreign language? I read in a foreign language, according to Ljubisha. So I'm against arson, and for me it's a book of holiness. I would never destroy any book. And I think he should be punished for who he is, but it turns out he's not Bastac, and you would convince me that he is. Here, television showed last night that other people, by their shirts, had established Branko Miljuš. Well, don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63195	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63196	Not his father, not his uncle, not his grandfather, but Branko Miljus, who was born on January 2, 1972, etc., to not read your entire biography. Do you know where I read it from? From the Old Town Community site. So, this Branko Miljuš, who turned on what you saw, he's a member of the larger Old Town municipality. When I tell you Bastache's men, that's what I mean. I say the people you hold in power by being part of most of the Old Town community, so that's what I mean. That mile you saw, you saw well, I saw the same thing, there commanding those other two or three, who all recognized that they were on video and they were on fire. This Miljuš, a member of the larger Old Town municipality, organizes, he brought them in, with Bastac brought them in. You saw for sure on those videos and Bastac chasing his shoulder against Miljuš's shoulder at the Progress gallery, running after Goran Vesic in order to lynch him. Did you see the footage of this Bastac, with his crew from Old Town, trying to stop Goran Vesic's car in the Obilić Wreath garage? Did you see together, shoulder to shoulder, that Miljuš you recognized, well recognized, which is a member of the larger municipality of Old Town, there you hold him in power, as together with this Bastac, the president of the municipality you hold in power, goes to the house of Goran Vesic? They filmed themselves, boasted, as they filmed themselves burning books, to praise themselves, the great heroes, so they filmed themselves walking in front of his house, where he lived with his family, threatening him there. When we talk about fascist potatoes in Serbia, it is the burning of books, but it is also the possession of a home, which is sacred, which is sacred, and no one in this country has ever done this before. They worked in Hungary, these fascists from Jobik. It's the only case I know. And they set out to copy it as a role model in Serbia. When I tell you something that Serbia absolutely doesn't need, something that is just a serious shame for Serbia and nothing better and nothing smarter than that, I think of these people. And when I say crime and when I say the damage that's being done, it's very consciously being made, I think of those people. Come on, please, provide reports that I know you know about, and I know you've heard of them, because we talked about them here in this room. If the president of your party hasn't seen it, give it to the man, because we talked to you about it. A state audit institution, how many apartments it found missing in the Old Town municipality. They talked to me about people here and not only there, but they also found it in other places in Belgrade, where the authorities held Gilas and his people, but where they're holding them today. In the town of Šapcu, too. So that's the level of damage that is irrefutable. The state institution has established it. I'm telling you nicely, if you don't think that's good, well done. We agree on that. Every normal man will agree, that's not good. You're in a position to cut it off. The moment you deny support for your stay, further stay in power of this and such Bastac, that Miljuš and these others who burned the books. You are one evil that happens in the territory of the city of Belgrade, evil for one municipality, but also for the city, but also for the state, because, once again, the state is disgraced by mimicking Nazi pyre. You've prevented one evil from happening. I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't do that, if we agree on these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63197	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the replica of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63198	First, it is not the city's competent assembly to make a decision to replace members of the municipal council, because it has done something beyond its public office. I told you. It was supposed to be done by the police, not too late, to be brought in nicely by the police, brought to justice for violations. That used to be two months, I don't know if anything's changed. I was also surprised that they tied these courts to violations with judicial institutions. It used to be the authority of the state administration, not the judicial authority. These dosmaniacs really ruined everything and it's a little harder for me to get there. The court of offense is now a judicial authority, and he was always the authority of the state administration. Two months in prison deserves someone who set the book on fire in public because they upset the public. It's hard to upset the public. (Marian Risticevic: The flag? ) The flag, if it's Serbian, would be severely punished. If it's some hostile country, I'd like to honor it. When I set the Croatian flag on fire, I deserve medals, not a wolf remembers to assign me. When I light the NATO flag or the EU flag, too. Who is this Trifunovic? I immediately attacked him via Twitter, then they blocked me on Twitter for Milok Pantic. I'm active there and I react to things like that. To be replaced by a function, it needs to be proved that he has sinned something concrete in that function. Let this go before the judge for transgressions, as the judge has appointed for him. I, personally, as a lawyer, think it deserves two months in prison. It's not a crime, but it is a public disturbance. That is why the court of law is competent, and all those who have participated with him in this. You don't even do it when someone destroys your property, you don't do anything. Those who got into state television were all supposed to be shown, at least in violation. Is it a violation? Oh, they're not. The ones that surrounded the presidency and blocked the presidency, too. And you're not. You have political reasons for not doing this. You're making a fuss about it, and you're not going to take effective action so you don't mind being repressive, and you want me to follow you in that noise. I won't follow you in any noise, but whenever something happens that I don't think is right, I will react. It's not right to block Belgrade from day to day. That's what I said. You saw, you weren't allowed to deal with the Latvians. The police defended the Latvians who prevented me from entering the National Assembly. I wanted to run them all over the jeep, if they hadn't split up in front of the jeep, they'd have been hit. Okay, we wouldn't go fast, so it'd just be on our feet. One of them got a little bit of a sniff. One of the most prominent among them, and Bosko Obradovic was at a nice distance from me tarabio, 15, 20 meters. So we're showing it. No one can forbid me, if the people choose me, to enter the building of the National Assembly. And who gets in my way or he'll run me over or I'll run him over. You didn't do anything. The police even defended the Latvians, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63199	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63200	Okay, now that the police were saving this Ljotic Obradovic, I'm not sure. It seemed to me, I might be wrong, it was my impression, that he was running behind the back of the police, hiding there, hiding, so maybe that's why it seemed like someone was protecting him. It doesn't matter. It's more serious here. You know, we're talking about some findings, the results of official reports, reports made up by relevant institutions. We talked about it here and we showed those reports. If we have to bring them back, it's no problem at all, they'll be here soon. So, to see, when someone says just now – I want him convicted, I ask – why don't you apply the same archaic everywhere, then he corrects himself and says – I didn't say I want him convicted, I want it determined by the authorities. I say, "Behold, you will now see, and for the third time it is corrected and said, "I will return to that first." If you want to be serious, it's not a problem, now the reports are coming, so feel free to take a look. I'm telling you, we've been delivering, showing, and you can already see it and you know it. Political responsibility is what we're talking about here. No one expects you to take and criminally condemn this Miljuš, whom you say you saw with your own eyes that he organized the burning of the book. We ask – is there a political attitude on your part? If there is, then you say – this one can no longer be in a leading place in the municipality where we wonder, and you wonder. You're wondering. So, you keep him there to be the municipal government, both Bastace and him. Is there political responsibility in this burning of books? I think it has to be. If you're going to show some values and don't blindly serve their interests here and there some place in a local company or some furniture, then you say – sorry, we don't support this anymore. Is he going to respond to a misdemeanor or not? It has nothing to do with you showing a political attitude. Just like in the Bastache case. You know, a man got caught in a currency smuggling. As he will pass, as far as the offense is concerned, that is one question, and the other is whether there is a political attitude and responsibility. You are in a position to say – this man will continue to run a city municipality and to imagine how he represents someone, whether he is a political leader or not. Do you want to say – it is not disputed that the man is a devisor, which is the closest associate of Dragan Gilas, who stormed the Progress gallery, which organized the lynching of political opponents, which possessed houses, harassed families? That's what you're supposed to give a political position for. The City Municipality of Stari Grad in the annual budget report on the work of the 2015 budget inspection is located, this apparatus did not show the page records, in Chapter 10. It doesn't say which side exactly, but it's in chapter 10. I'll leave this for you today. Following the control of the application of the provisions of the members of that and that Budgetary System Act, the President of the City of Old Town established a working relationship with three new persons indefinitely, taking into account the exemption from the ban on employed persons in accordance with the member of the team and the law, and after only five days, the same persons resolved the duties of assistants and the Head of the City of Stari Grad’s administration’s solutions to the systematiced posts in the administration. So what's happening now in the Old Town municipality is the same thing as, I'm sure, 10 times you criticized publicly when it happened in other municipalities, and the same people were doing, this is the same organization. On the leader's side, it seems to me, they rotated so artificially and appointed as assistants of the president of the municipality when the yellow company ruled there. I think there may be the only town municipality where every citizen, who enters their door, could boast – personally received me and welcomed the president of the municipality. You know why? Fifty-something of their people artificially placed as assistants, then deployed to other duties, that even porters, the porters were the assistants of the president of the municipality at some point. (President: Thank you. ) The same thing is happening with you today, has been established by a competent institution, shown, and, when you ask, we want proofs, I ask you, what prevents you from acting on these evidences. If he hates to read you, state a political attitude – does he deserve to represent anyone who imitates fascist Jobik Hungarian or Nazi Hitlers from 1933? Is Bastac, who does this, Miljus, who does it, and the other heads of the Old Town municipality deserve to ask themselves anything? It's a matter of value.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63201	Thank you. I'll ask both speakers for another round of replicas and I'd like to... (Vojislav Seselj: We end up with me.) )......................................................................................................... One more lap you, Orlic and we'll move on. Okay? There, gentlemen's agreement, to give other people a chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63202	You see, Orlic, you're making some arguments that are strong, that I don't know about. Under these orders, the competent state authorities should act, not me. I am only here if the competent state authorities determine that some Serbian radical has sinned on the law to be punished by a party's warning, warning of exclusion or exclusion. That's when it comes to our staff, and we don't arrest, we don't close, except sometimes we put someone in the trunk for what they deserve, so what do we do? And the trunk is for people, right? Yes, it is. These are strong arguments if they are correct, but the state authorities need to check and impose appropriate sanctions, but that you honor him for bringing in 3,000 euros more than allowed... (Alexander Martinovic: 13 thousand. Well, 10 is allowed, Martinovic. (Vladimir Marinkovic: He doesn't know that. ) Well, if he does not know, it is still a relatively small offense for which a fine may be a fifth of the amount, a fifth of the amount of the excess. (Alexander Martinovic throws.) ) Well, I know, but it's still more for funny journalistic insights than for serious debate. Here are the people who stole millions, stole the state... (Alexander Martinovic: Is that common? So let's prove it. (Alexander Martinovic: She said inspection. Wait, why isn't the inspection going on? I don't want to work on that case. (Alexander Martinovic: How can we work as MPs? ) Well, here's the inspection, you're the government, you're the ruling party, you're responsible for all such phenomena, which aren't processed. (Alexander Martinovic: You carry power in Old Town. What? No, no, we don't have those organs that are in charge of something like that. We don't have such organs, because the municipality isn't a state, the municipality is an organ of local self-government, and the city municipality is much less than that. A lot less jurisdiction has an Old Town municipality than your Ruma municipality. (Alexander Martinovic: Crime is a crime. Yes, if there's a crime, I won't protect anyone. Well, am I protecting him for some crime? (Alexander Martinovic: You are protecting him. For what? (Alexander Martinovic: You hold him in power. I'm holding him in power? Well, if you convict him for more than six months in prison, he'll automatically leave his post. (Alexadar Martinovic: According to your logic, Hitler is not a war criminal either. What? (Alexadar Martinovic: According to your logic, Hitler is not a war criminal either. ) Listen, a war criminal is something special, people were declaring themselves war crimes, political acts, and without any process, and the code was done to them. A war criminal comes to him with some kind of negative folk hero. (Alexander Martinovic throws.) It is. Look out, he's been declared a war criminal. Mankind declared it, but it wasn't meant to be. He died indefensible, but he was declared alive and would have been convicted if he had been caught. (Alexander Martinovic: How about life when he killed himself on April 30th?) What? I say -- he's been declared by humanity and life for a war criminal. (Alexander Martinovic throws.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63203	Comrade Martinovic, come in and answer the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63204	This Martinovic guy's in kindergarten somewhere. What's this? As for this three thousand-dollar grudge, it's like a cannon tossing a sparrow. In addition to so many millions of embezzlements in the country, the main news now is that Bastic had three thousand euros in his pocket. (Marian Risticevic throws.) Well, it hasn't been established before. He wasn't caught.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63205	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Please don't all talk out loud. You're welcome to answer the question. You'll all get your word. (Alexander Martinovic: Now we need you to believe the word, and you don't trust the paper with the state? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63206	It's always like that. In one circle of replica, Vojislav Seselj claims one thing. I ask him the same thing, then he changes, so the third time he goes back to the first. So until you find out if it's enough for you that the institution has established something or not, I'm going to remind you just what you're specifically defending right now. In addition to what I've already read to you, she has determined that persons are illegally engaged under the contract of work, according to the contract on temporary and occasional transactions, through a youth and student cooperative in the management of the city's municipality, then the Business Centre "Milan Gale Muskatirović", did you ask where it was found, here in this document it was found, again, illegally overwork has something to do with the 100 million damages. It's not the only company. Here is the public company of Stari Grad "Parobrod", which is an institution of the culture of the city municipality. It's all been determined by the inspection. When you say - I have nothing to do with it because this Bastic is not my member, and that Miljuš is not my member, I am only interested in my members. Did you get out of the membership list those people who, as councilmen of this matter, support and vote for this? You're not. You claim here – it is with my consent, it is with my blessing, it is by my criteria that good and honest people are supported at the bar whoever they are. He can't be a good and honest man, a Bastach who's a proven devisor. The man admitted it himself, told the newspaper – yes, I transmitted the exchanges and they announced that I was transferring them in the amount that was published, he admits everything, but he wants to tell us that he's innocent in the whole story because, imagine, he didn't know how much he could and how much he couldn't. Do you, here you said you were the best lawyer here, that someone didn't know how the law freed him from responsibility and guilt? It won't be. You know that very well, but there's another thing here in the middle. We're supposed to be a little naive right now. The currency smuggler according to your criteria and values deserves to be the president of the municipality you support, for whom your members vote and say – this one should be the president, for whom they vote together and with this LDP, whom you mentioned a moment, and are part of that coalition of yours and what other yellow company resolutions, and everyone today is in the service of Dragana Gilas, because Bastic is his right-hand man for the city of Belgrade? So, Miljuš, who spreads Nazism along with Bastac, burns books, real Nazi stakes, lynchs other people, tries to physically harm them, violates the sanctity of other people's homes, does he, by your criteria, political, light-headed, life-saving, whatever you want, deserve to represent anyone and anything in this country? That's the only question that's being asked here. Let the courts do theirs and those who deal with violations and those who deal with more serious and difficult deeds, but if we're going to talk about what is worth, what is what we want in Serbia, what kind of country and society we want to build, then we're talking about these things that we're talking about right now. Proved crime, causing damage to municipalities, cities and the whole country, throwing credit on Serbia's face, is that something anyone should support in this country? If you think that, if citizens feel they should, they should freely beat Dragan Gilas and his clan in the next election, but citizens say – they should not, and therefore they have no votes for the cure, because they are trying to find an alibi for themselves because they have no votes or for a cure in any senseless boycott stories. The fact is, the people say, we won't do it, we don't need it. We want an honest Serbia, a homely, capable, worthy, winning Serbia. We want Alexander Wolf and SNS. And whoever's for those and those kind of values, he's got himself in the middle of boycotting because he can't handle the censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63207	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Thank you. The word is Dr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63208	A coalition of SNS and SRS and SPS was formed in Požega after the last elections, and the municipality functioned. Our frames haven't had much experience. They've just begun to deal with politics, young people, etc. And then there was a big affair. The full composition of the government, the advance has been arrested for various malfeasances, and no radical has been arrested, nor has the Socialist. Only the advances were arrested, and then a new government was formed, new advances and old radicals and old socialists entered, right? (Nedjo Jovanovic: That's right. So they were in power with you. Your men have seriously wronged the law, they've been arrested, they're still in the process, right, the process is still going on. Ours were with you in power, but they didn't sin over the law, none were arrested, nor were the Socialists. I cannot bear responsibility for the actions of my coalition partner, especially the coalition partner at the local level. It was in Baja's garden, too. He was arrested and returned. He was arrested and returned. Okay, it doesn't matter. I wrote a book on Srebrenica in three volumes on 3,360 pages, so I was mostly burdened with it, and now I'm free again, and now I'm actively committed to the current policy. So you can't set things up like that. In the next Old Town election, who knows how, the new mix-up of cards, who's going to be in the coalition, you don't know that in advance. Maybe we'll go back to a lot of municipalities with you, maybe we'll go with some others, but that's the local level of government. There is only one thing I can guarantee you, that I will not be with Gilas, Jeremic and Bosca Obradovic at the republican level of power. I can guarantee that. (Marian Risticevic: What about Janko Veselinović?) What? Who's that, your health? (Marian Risticevic: Leader. () Of what? It's a turnaround move. Come on, Ristichevich. So that's what I know we won't. That would be compromising for us, and with you we could give up the EU. I haven't once in five years, as long as I've been back from my official trip, gone to Vucic's for an official audience. We met several times here at the Assembly or at the Russian Embassy, mostly at the Russian Embassy at receptions. I never went to him for the official audience of the Serbian presidency once, and I said -- I won't until he takes down the EU flag, which is not the place in his cabinet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63209	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj: Stop me again.) Doctor Orlic is entitled to a replica. (Vojislav Seselj: He can't do it now, you said you were ending it with me.) So you didn't listen to me, either. I see you've moved on. I'd give if you'd agree with other colleagues. (Vojislav Seselj: Here, I have to go after Orlic again, so you give it to whoever you want later.) We have to cut somewhere. Vojislav Seselj: But I must be the last. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63210	Are you going to change your attitude about the EU again or not, I don't know, but it's not impossible and it wouldn't surprise me, because it wouldn't be the first time. Most of the time, it's not what's most interesting here. To me, it's kind of the most interesting story about the next election, let's say, this level that you're at right now, the coalition partner of this Bastac, and you hold him in power. You say we'll see what happens in the next local elections, specifically in the Old Town municipality. Here, I can tell you right now what's going to happen, it's going to beat our list convincingly. They're gonna win hard, 'cause, you know why? (Vojislav Seselj: Swear if you dare.) So people won't vote for those who burn books. You can support them and hold them in power as long as you want, but we agree in this debate that it's disgusting, that it's unacceptable. That's what the people think. You think he'll vote for that? He won't. Now, as much as you risk holding it in power, to connect with you, you know it best. And I'm telling you, I don't understand why you're holding this in power. Why do you give it a chance to do such damage again tomorrow? Why do you give it a chance to rebuke this country's reputation tomorrow? Should someone like him come to us again, the other day Dmitri Medvedev, and he'd have to do something stupid like that in front of him. I'd be embarrassed to know that I have responsibilities just as much as I've allowed such a person to perform as some city council president and do such a thing. So that's the kind of responsibility we're talking about here. This Bastac himself, the fact that children's stuffed toys are stuffed on rye, burning books, harassing honest workers who have done no harm to anyone, are not, which destroys the site, that the possession of Goran Vesic and his family disturbs him, you know what he says on this subject that we're talking about now, what happens after these next elections in Old Town? He says, "I'm going to barricade myself in the city halls and I'm not going to let them come in here." He's asked by a journalist -- but how come you don't have any more legitimacy at this point, you're not the president of the municipality anymore. He says I don't care. It provokes these conflicts that you were talking about, which they provoked when they were trying to take over RTS, and there with those motor saws, they were breaking in, and they were obsessing over the presidency building, and they were chasing political opponents who literally are experiencing as enemies, who are trying to physically poison. That kind of disastrous relationship with this society, its stability, the need for some elemental order and peace to be established, they will demonstrate, as Bastic himself says - and the day after the election. My question remains, and let it be a question of thought, I see that many questions here are hard to answer, and I will not get many answers, as far as I ask, so let them stay to think - will those who hold the authority of this and such fascist Bastac, this and such fascist Miljuš, with them set up barricades within the Municipality of Stari Grad, or will the people's will be respected and carried out? In this country, only democracy can exist, if you ask us. In this country, only the people's will can decide, if you ask us. And in this country, if it's thought and acted like that, it has some perspective, it has some future and these young people we're talking about have something to fight for and where to stay, and in a country where everything and all the personal will of a dictatorship and the will of a Gilas, a Bastache, in which they say -- it's going to be as we say, it's going to be spent as we say, it's got to be taken as much as we want, it's got the right to live and to be with its family in its own house just the one we allow it to be, it's the country without any perspective, it's that darkness, the collapse, the nothing we've been in until 2012. That's why the choice is very clear. Let it remain a question of thinking - whether it will prevent people's will and usurp the building of the municipality of those who maintain them and those in power today, or perhaps it will understand that the will of the people is something that must be uncut in this country. We say the sea and that's why Alexander Vukic and the SNS have the support they have and you know what, they'll confirm it in those elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63211	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. ) Now, in accordance with Article 112, I would like one small five-minute break, so let's move on. Five minutes off. [[Vojislav Seselj: Give me the replica, then give me a break.]] I think I've been two and a half hours... (Vojislav Seselj: give me the replica. ) It's all right, he'll take over a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63212	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63213	When it comes to general product safety, it's always at the top of that list, of course everything the youngest use, and these are children's toys. However, the safety of products in general is also a huge number of products that are actually used as some kind of consumer goods. Now, here we come to the fact that someone has to react immediately on the market. You have accepted this principle under the EU directive that when you discover that a product is insecure, it is automatically announced on the site and alarmed by the entire public within one minute. However, that is not the case in practice. Something that has a certificate that according to chemical composition, doesn't necessarily mean it's safe, especially for children. It happens that many toys, many children's aids, start with those rattles, dolls, various other toys have in their composition, are usually made of rubber or plastic, all of which is safe for children, if the child puts it in his mouth and does not have these increased talents, and they are found in pesticides and in building some substance, etc., but that does not mean in itself that this product is safe, because it often happens that during the game, a child can, especially a small child, accidentally, because what children know, it is important that they have that toy to be interested, right, whether some part of it is to tear or not let God get into asphyxiation. On those markings, Mr. Minister, stands the CE quality mark. That means it's not a product that's not at least that quality. But it happens that market inspection and it's the key thing about this law and the Food Safety Act, it doesn't react in time or react at all, only when it goes by who knows how long or doesn't let God happen some incident they react. What does it take to make this law work in practice? Of course, with these corrections that we really do well through these amendments, we Serbian radicals, that you have greater inspections, or market surveillance, because that is the key to everything, to finding out in good time whether this product is compatible with all those standards that are safe, especially when children are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63214	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) First, colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63215	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a little while. The SNS Group also highlighted in principle the reasons for the adoption of the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the General Product Safety Act. The relevant law is from 2009 and it is necessary to adopt some amendments in line with the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. The rules in this area are part of a legal framework that is important for Chapter 28, which concerns consumer protection and public health. We also need to know that this law is also linked to negotiating Chapter 1, which refers to the free flow of goods. Products placed on the market, first of all, must be safe. What is important to say for the sake of citizens is that there are misleading products, i.e. imitations that are dangerous, they resemble food, but they are not food and can be dangerous to consumers, especially children, and may have some harmful consequences. Therefore, it is clear that the proposal is intended to protect users in terms of health and safety, taking into account products used for personal use or for the exercise of professional activity. It is true that there is an information system in the EU territory that is the most important part of the security database, which is updated from minute to minute. No producer actually wants any of his products to be found on this base, because it has certain consequences. I think this is one of the ways that it's good that we adopted and one of the ways to combat dangerous products with a preventive fact. There is also a system in Serbia for the rapid exchange of information on non-secure products, which, based on a minimum of 11 types of risk, determines what products are and informs the competent authorities, and, of course, the competent authorities have an obligation to act in accordance with the law. In any case, I think it is necessary to support this bill that the government is also showing concern for citizens and the state in terms of everything I've talked about so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63216	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63217	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, products should only be sold if they are in accordance with the General Product Safety Act and if that consent is given in the right way. Products must be safe, in normal and predictable use and the relevant state has the authority to take action unless these requirements are met. In particular, economic operators must demonstrate that they operate in accordance with the relevant product safety requirements provided for in these amendments to the law. The most basic requirements are to minimise the risks associated with the product, to establish, to keep and maintain technical documentation related to the product, to place appropriate labels on the product, as well as to provide and instruction for the safe use of the product. Given that there are a large number of foreign businesses in our market, especially those in EU territory, it is known that they had to comply with EU strict regulation in business, and that in certain non-EU markets, they respect or do not respect those regulations to a lesser extent. It is our intention that all economic operators stick to the strict rules implementing this law and operate with the same security standards that they operate in the EU. The application of these standards is particularly relevant in the production process. Economic operators applying standard safety in the production process thus show that they operate in accordance with this law and in good business practice. Business entities which produce, import, distribute or sell consumer products are all responsible for their safety. For example, if the manufacturer discovers that the product which produces poses a safety risk, he must take immediate steps to remove the problem. This could mean providing new instructions for use, modifying the product or calling on consumers to stop using the product and return the funds. The manufacturer should eventually contact all consumers he knows, and they are adapted to warn them about the problem with instructions on what they should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63218	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63219	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendment was rejected with the following explanation: the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why it extends the concept of misleading products to specific risks and specific product categories subject to the regulation of specific laws. In order to reject the proposed amendment, I will add the following. In the opening part of the law, it is explicitly stated what the purpose of the law is, which is that products placed on the market must be safe. It has changed the concept of a product within the meaning of this law which has so far been applied to final products, and now covers all products including those that are not final, and without which certain final products cannot be used as batteries. In addition, the definition of misleading products, i.e. dangerous imitations, by clarifying who the differences carry with them by misleading products that are not food, but by their appearance they resemble food and can be dangerous to consumers especially for children, with an example that such products may have adverse consequences. There's something else I'd like to say to the chairman and I'm talking to you. In the afternoon discussion, poor connotations were made regarding the work of the Ministry of Health and Minister Loncar. I have an obligation, as a long-standing worker of Serbia's health system, to say that the results of Mr. Loncar's work exist who are visible in every city, such as my town Nis, and in every municipality, and I would need it all day long to list what has been done to improve Serbia's health system, what is all done to improve health services, as well as to improve the health workers' situation in Serbia's health system, without forgetting that it was necessary to make up for years and years of care and neglect towards Serbia's health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63220	The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63221	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, the General Product Safety Act prescribes the treatment and obligation of placing on the market of exclusively safe products. The criteria that define the safety of products shall be laid down. The activities and measures applied by the competent authority to the relative risk of consumer health and safety are significant. Obligations shall be established and the manufacturer shall be able to recall dangerous products from the consumer. The system in the Republic of Serbia serves as developmental information between competent authorities, as well as for communication with economic operators with the aim of withdrawing or recalling products. This reduces the possibility that no dangerous misleading products appear on our market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63222	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63223	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, general product safety, misleading product, I will show one misleading product. So the state in the state of N1 is probably the leader of the state, Jugoslav Cosic. He's a salesperson of a misleading product. The product is a television program. Today I had the honor, unfortunately, of such an honor to listen to Secretary General REM, who acted as if he were a member or lawyer of a misleading product called N1 television. It's not just N1 television, it's New S, they're multiplying now. Today, the secretary general of REM said this – that because of the free reception of the signal from the EU, it is enough to just register the fiction of any EU country and you can uninterruptedly place your product in Serbia, i.e. to insert the programme into Serbia without initial broadcasting. So it's for him to re-route the signal. Re-emission without broadcast. Look, when the Secretary General of REM tells you this, then you know what time it is. I am now under the obligation to file criminal charges for abuse of position, and this abuse of position endangers domestic media and domestic operators, other operators. Excessive freedom of one who does not pay any fees to REM, SOKOJ, Ratel, unlike domestic television channels that must pay all that for their broadcasting programme. It's a work on black, a violation of competition. So it's a misleading product, very misleading. If we take that TV and Nova S, which are self-speakers and patrons of Solakova and Gilas campaigns, in the protection of their businesses, if we take that they will now broadcast a political programme, imagine that foreign televisions that are not registered in Serbia, which do not have a PIB, which do not have a home number, which are not registered in the APR, then these media broadcast an informative political programme. This is very misleading and harmful to the political structure of a country, a very harmful product. So they influence political circumstances, political public opinion in the state of Serbia even though the media is from Luxembourg. They don't even know when the elections are in Luxembourg, they don't participate at all, they don't broadcast any program, but that's why they broadcast it in Serbia, so they think because the signal was walked through Luxembourg to Slovenia, only the signal walked without any broadcast in those countries, that I consider the reception of the signal here to be re-routing. Imagine now that I'm in India fictitiously registering 20 channels, sports channels. And I claim that the biggest revenues are from the sports clubs that Gilas and Solak make, and that the political programs with New S and N1 TV serve to attack the government and thus protect the entire business that is illegal and which is misleading. Imagine I'm registering in India now for exactly 20 television channels. I'm fictitiously registering, I'm not broadcasting a program anywhere, I'm just fictitiously registering that it's electronic media. Then across Europe, for example, in Albania, I broadcast a signal in Albanian, with Albanian ads in Tirana, and I attack Albanian political parties, the Albanian opposition, the Albanian government and so on. Would that be possible? And I'm saying, I'm not re-emitting it like that, and here I am sending a signal from India, and I have no problem, and I'm in Albania making a real program, and I'm sending a signal back to India, and I'm saying, I'm not broadcasting the program, I'm re-emitting it. Imagine if I did it in Skopje? And to start in Macedonian to broadcast a program with Macedonian ads and say – no, it's fictitiously registered in India so it can re-emission, and you are obliged to receive free reception of the signal. So that wouldn't be possible. Imagine in Paris to open a television and say I'm fictitiously registered in India and then broadcast a program in French, I produce it in France, I broadcast French commercials, I participate in kidnapping bread to French media, from propaganda, from advertising, and so on, and when some French comes I say I'm just re-emitting the program from India. That wouldn't be possible. Of course, such programs would not last 24 hours. It's that inherited situation where these fake cross-border channels, these foreign televisions call for freedom of the media. They say the media is not free in Serbia. Why do you care so much about freedom of the media in Serbia when you are Luxembourg television? And you from that Luxembourg TV show imagine when "New S" conveys a presentation in Luxembourg, Serbia – Luxembourg, and they claim to re-emitting the programme. Imagine they don't have the right to transfer to Luxembourg, and they're reportedly recasting the programme from Luxembourg. So that's impossible. The other night I watched "New S", she took, even a diary of "N1" television, one entirely other television, and re-emissioning, says, is the simultaneous download of an unchanged programme, it's a re-emission without changes, changes, inserting, planting, etc. Imagine “New S” inserted the program “N1” TV – Dnevnik, and they say re-emitting the program. So they're lying. This is a misleading product, and these cross-border televisions are used to pump up subscriptions made in Serbia. Therefore, the domestic media from SBB for their production program does not receive any money, and they are obliged to support their employees from advertising, to pay REM, RATEL, Sokoya, etc. This group of fake cross-border channels do not have that kind of obligation, but, while domestic channels from SBB do not get any money until then, these fake cross-border channels, owned by United Media, or a connected face with SBB, whose owner is actually SBB, Solak and Gilas, they receive money even a few euros per subscriber. In this way, money is pumped from the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the subscription and ends somewhere in Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Malta, etc. Whether this country will stand in the way of this misleading product called "United Group", "United Media", "Direct Media", "Cast Media", "Adria News" remains to be seen. Here you have a good example, Jugoslav Ćosic gives a statement that the loss achieved by "Adria News", watch the "N1" TV and "CNN" memo, and it says "Adria News", even so much he has mixed the companies he has managed to forget that "N1" television has no PIB, so he used the PIB "Adria News". So, the e-mail address "N1" television, the title "N1" television, and here he writes nicely that the losses that are around 7.5m euros, have made a decision that no decision has been made to cover the losses under the regular annual financial report for 2018. So when it comes to losses, he refused to make a decision, and the losses are 73,143,000 dinars. But that's why when it comes to his other private company doing the same job, production, he makes a profit, and he gets it as a one-on-one production. So the income that half of it makes is profit. Although it's not clear what kind of production his company owns 90 percent. So here's the director, here's the owner, but there's a decision to schedule the winnings to the founders, a profit of 15,494,000 dinars, to schedule the winnings to the founders, i.e. Him, Yugoslavia, Cosic and Sanji Cosic 10%. So someone who has 4,000 euros in salary in "Adria News", someone who deceives viewers with a product called "N1" TV, there has 4,000 euros in salary, its journalists have 3,000 each. Our journalists, journalists in our media, don't have five times the salary. So, they have far fewer personal incomes, precisely because money from the media market is being pumped, one fraud is being paid, one deception, and in this delusion is taking part in Yugoslavia Ćosic and his journalists, This is this product, misleadingly, a state in a country that allegedly re-emissions a programme that is not being broadcast anywhere. That's how domestic media is threatened, that's black work. And, now imagine that you hold any craft shop, that you produce, say, shoes, you pay all the obligations to the state of Serbia and besides you someone opens a shoe shop and says – I am a cross-border shoe shop, this is my product and I don't pay any taxes, I don't pay any fees, therefore, the competitiveness of the product would be violated. I also wrote to the Competition Protection Commission, which has suddenly been declared unsatisfactory, although it is obvious to everyone that this black product is jeopardizing the work of the media and those with national frequencies and local televisions because, except that nothing pays the commercials far more favourable precisely because it pays nothing and takes part of the propaganda advertising market and thus further endangers the media that live on commercials, pays their fees, taxes and so on. The proof that this is a misleading product is that this firm doesn't have a PIB. So this product, this company doesn't have a PIB. Now I ask you, how do they trade, how do they deal with suppliers, how do they pay for labour when they don't have a PIB? It's all one big con, one big con. We as a state and as Parliament, since our officials are largely corrupt, we need to make a decision that the media strategy is not determined there by some working group in which they have already positioned themselves, trying to deceive the government, but rather by asking us to establish in the Assembly, here, a media strategy, and then we know exactly what real cross-border televisions are, what a misleading product is, and this is certainly one big scam, one big fraud, weighing 500m euros, and evidence that individuals are enormously rich, which Mr. Solak bought a 55m-euro plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63224	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63225	Article 5 refers to the amendment of Article 10. I will read only one point, as it is important because of the reasons, says: “The manufacturer is obliged to provide consumers and other users with appropriate information and instructions necessary for the risk assessment of the use of the product during the intended or normal use period, if such risks are not obvious without appropriate warning. ” This is the member we've been changing, and the best illustration of why this has to be like this is what's happening these days, or in some last, ten days, it's quite a panic in the people because it's such a joke that the news of the use of Ranisan and Ranitidin is being thrown out. Ranisan, which is produced by “Health” Leskovac and Ranitidin, which produces “Hemofarm” Vršac”. It said in the word that these two drugs contained some substances that are reportedly carcinogenic. Now imagine how many people in Serbia, even children, have used these tablets every time they have some discomfort in their stomach, how many tables of these medicines each individually spent, and now they need to think about whether this medicine was really carcinogenic. The answer to that question, quite logical, appeared only a day after the news that Ranisan and Ranitidin are withdrawing from use because it is used in Serbia by Ranitidin, produced by "Alkaloid" Skopje. I asked at the pharmacy who the pharmacist is, what's the difference? How did they get a warning at the pharmacy, an explanation from the Drug Agency? She says: “You know, these of us had some substance. ” I say: “Ma'am, you're a pharmacist, you can't talk laymanly. Give me a box of wounded people and this one of ours that's produced in Leskovac and this ranitide from Alkaloid, so I can read it, to compare what the two drugs are different. There's no answer. We're asking, is that where the pharmacovigilance fingers are hiding again? We talked about it when it comes to our health system, for three or four years we've been talking about it, and this kind of seems like a really great example. If they followed this law, then the manufacturers would have to warn. How is it possible for these two drugs to be wounded and ranitidine, ours, which are produced in Vrsac, or Leskovec, to be used for years and that no one knew? Is anyone involved in drugs, is it possible that no one knew that these drugs contained any substances that are carcinogenic? Probably not true. But we expect and ask that someone from the Ministry of Health, from this agency, the minister in particular, the director of the Agency, explain to the people how harmful it is for the people who used these medicines, so that people are over-cauted for how many years they've been using them, etc., to go to some preventive medical examination or I don't know what, if that's the case. And if it's just a pharmacomaphy that pulls two of our drugs, and that's how it puts two of our factories at risk, so that there's a drug being sold here that's being produced in Skopje, it's something much, much more dangerous. Then it is a serious cancer, but on the health system, in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the complete society of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63226	My colleague Jovanovic, after the amendment? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63227	Radeta's colleague has really run it as a key thing because it's a huge number of users. I'm just asking you, Mr. Minister, as long as this debate takes place, to get officially from the Ministry of Health now, you let the Medicines Agency go. This is a recommendation from the European Medicines Agency that these medicines be withdrawn from the market. Now that you're gone, I don't know if you know a colleague of Radet, there's no more Alkaloids. So now it's said and said, because of that hydrothermia. Here's a lot of doctors in the O.R., and even Professor Knezevic, who is a pathologist, please don't bother the public, and if we don't go, I'm buying my mother, my colleague bought it or for her own needs, someone for the kids, which says, give us official information, because we're telling this law, is this product and now "Alkaloid's" safe?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63228	National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Sulkic, submitted the 7th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63229	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for giving me your word. Information available to the public by the competent authorities regarding the risks posed by products for the health and safety of consumers. In particular, these provisions will relate to product characteristics, expected risks and measures taken. It is therefore entirely illogical to propose that Article 7 be deleted from the draft law. Article 7 has been amended by the Proposer, Article 13 of the applicable General Product Safety Act. If we were to delete this article, not only to make it difficult to understand the legal provisions, it would not be possible to speak at all about a system that should exist, but it refers to the exchange of information on dangerous products. I must say that I have not seen that the amendments in the other amendments have offered a solution to these provisions, because if we finally view the proposal as a whole, then if we delete this provision there would be a problem in terms of uncertainty or incomplete regulation of these issues. For these reasons, I agree with the Government's opinion that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63230	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63231	Thank you, Chairman. I also agree that this amendment should not be accepted because, with regard to the conditions and the way in which information is provided to the public, the exchange of information in general is subject to changes in the provisions of the applicable law, so that the information available to the competent authorities regarding the risks that products pose to the health and safety of consumers, but also to other users, will be made available to the public in accordance with the conditions of transparency, regardless of the restrictions imposed on the monitoring of research activities. Furthermore, it is further explained that information on product identification, the nature of the risk, as well as the measures taken, will be made available to the public. Furthermore, this Article 7 states that, in justified cases, information obtained for the purpose of applying this law, which is by its nature a business secret, other than information relating to the safety of the product, which must be published if circumstances so require, in order to protect the health and safety of consumers and other product users. In this way, the Proposer makes further alignment with that EU directive and explains this very important mechanism that contributes to effective application of the law and more effective achievement of the objective that is precisely why the law is being adopted, and that is general product safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63232	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63233	The general safety of products, including food products, is certainly of primary importance to us and all entities that can come into contact with products we can classify into three groups. We'd put the country first. When we say state, we mean the state administration that should be of the regulations, control and public notice to do its job in the highest quality way. This is one strengthening of the responsibility of the manufacturer when it comes to general product safety, it would be another factor of the entities. The third one certainly to be consumers. We know that since Roman law, there is one maximum, it says - let the buyer be careful. So we need to divide the relationship to product safety into three categories of subjects that can get in touch with that. We are now in a way and in part protecting the safety of products by the General Product Safety Act and the Food Safety Act, but we personally think that it is still not enough until all these participants change the relationship between the production of the product itself, the placing on the market and the consumption where possible. We have suggested when there are risks to non-secure products, that the public must be informed, provided that it is even forbidden by some other laws. There is nothing dangerous here, and there is nothing to confuse anyone in Serbia's legal system, because it is done here and it is said - if there is a risk of general product safety, the public should be informed. Practically, it should also create some alarmers that would have the obligation to the competent authorities, not from Krusik, but from safety, for the general safety of products that would inform the competent authorities that they could intervene. Just to remind you that in two months, it was December 2007 and January 2008, that we had to withdraw some 510,000 toys from transport in Serbia. Then you see now what we buy and what gifts we give to our children. What my colleague Mircic specifically stated, of course, when the debate was in principle, said that simple toys and school supplies bring not only small children, but also slightly more serious consumers into confusion. Thus, any product intended for transport, even as raw materials, must be controlled multiplely in order to avoid any disturbance of the nation’s health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63234	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, security is very important. I'm going to talk about safety on food products. Yesterday we talked about how many cows were slaughtered during the rule of yellow cockroaches, or Dusan Petrovic, while he was Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as trade. They remembered that the interests of our peasants could be traded, that they could be traded with the interests of the state itself. Two hundred thousand cows, one cow gives seven thousand gallons of milk, if it's high milk. I'm counting on it to be five grand. It is a billion liters of milk, each year the value of that product was 300m euros. It was a quality domestic product, which was not a double purpose, which was not misleading, and made of milk and made of quality cheeses, creams, sausages, etc. At the same time, during Dusan Petrovic's rule, it disappeared from the state of a million and a half pigs. The value of this is the new 300m euros. When we take the younger as a result, that 200,000 cows survived, our loss is only in the bodies of about 300m euros. Only a four-year-old and somewhat shorter government of Dusan Petrovic cost us 900m euros each year. We export three and a half million corn, when the record year, sometimes slightly less, we export soy products, we export cattle flour, all in all, we export plant products, agricultural products, for a billion pounds of live scale meat. We have 0.33 head per hectare, and the potential, if we take a European standard, is about five million to us. So we have three and a half million less conditional throats than the European average. The value of this production is about three and a half billion, processed, not in the final phase, in products it would be about seven billion euros. That's what we lose. And for the plant production we export, we get about 700 to 800m euros. So our loss is, when you subtract 800 million from seven billion, our loss is over six billion. The slaughterhouse industry works from 30% to 40%, our wineries work with 30% to 40% of our capacity, importing grapes from Macedonia. This means that instead of our production, our plant production, those who ruled before us, raised us, intensified our agricultural production of other countries. We export plant production, and we import meat and products of often suspicious character. We had to change dozens of regulations to prevent imports of bad meat, milk and so on, bad food products into the Republic of Serbia. I don't think we've stopped that harmful influence yet, and we're trying in every way to preserve the safety and health of people, at as acceptable a level as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we have come to the situation they wanted, to move the plant's agricultural production, and in return it serves to raise livestock production, meat production, milk and eggs in some other countries. We are trying to turn that around and the funds we invest in agriculture and food production have been around a billion euros in subsidies in the last three years. But I continue to appeal to the government that next year, if we do not increase the amount of incentives in the Republic of Serbia, it is at least to preserve at this level, which is around 43 billion euros. I think that should be increased, because by raising agricultural production, by raising incentives, we create conditions that our food industry has favourable circumstances, under favourable conditions that it has raw materials for production and in such a way that it is competitive, above all, on the domestic market and on the CEFTA market and also on European markets, if possible. I therefore appeal before the adoption of the budget to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the competent ministries of finance and agriculture, to think carefully, because the money spent in agriculture is like a seed that is zero. So, she'll give a good plant first, and then she'll give you a mature fruit. If you want to eat delicious bread, you must sow wheat. If you want to eat a sweet fruit, you have to plant a tree. Therefore, it is necessary to invest in agriculture and food production, because that way GDP will be increased and that money will come to all of us in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63237	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63238	Thank you. The proposed amendments and additions of the General Product Safety Act need to establish and implement the rules of general product safety and to allow market surveillance authorities to take specific measures at their disposal under the rules and instructions for general product safety, as well as the need to strengthen the market surveillance mechanism in relation to products that pose a serious risk. There is a need to require, in the event of serious risk, rapid intervention which may also be a ban on the availability of a product, its withdrawal or the prohibition of the availability of the market and in this case the rules of rapid exchange of data are applied, which is precisely the subject of regulation under this law. In fact, this law regulates, or improves, norms relating to procedures for verifying the eligibility of measures restricting the freedom of movement of products. The paper in relation to the regulation so far is that the competent authorities will encourage and promote the functioning of manufacturers and distributors, on a voluntary basis, in accordance with the obligations laid down in this law, including, where possible, the adoption and application of rules of good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63239	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63240	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, submitted by the esteemed MP Risticevic, should be accepted, regardless of what has been rejected, because attitude 2 that becomes attitude 3 replaces the word "self-initiative" with the word "sufficiently", which I believe is in the spirit of the Serbian language. Let me explain. Self-initiative is a virtue that people act by their own, internal impulse, and their own initiatives, without the need for external influence. It's a virtue that we tend to run or start by ourselves. And voluntarily, I think this is a more adequate term, is a word that was carried out through the synonyms "work", "voluntarily", "mildly", "awarely", "without coercion". And that's why I'm going to vote for this amendment, because I think it's in the spirit of a good Serbian language, which we should practice in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63241	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fifth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export and Import Law of the Slave of Double Purposes You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another one of those laws where, when we read the argument, we come up with that some things here sometimes don't match, when you talk about your path, or when the representatives of the regime talk about the way, successfully, they say, the way of Serbia to the European Union. What is, of course, always the eyes of all our people is that as a rule, it has become a fact that you have collected from Mladjan Dinkic and the term "experts" that you place on new laws proposed by the Government of Serbia, usually by experts, some EU experts. And what's interesting about that argument now? Of course, we are against this, but when you give an explanation, this would be interesting if these changes and additions were made six months ago, a year after coming to power of the current coalition, but it's interesting that only after seven full years the regime realized that something was wrong, that all the countries in the region had long changed those laws, brought them into line with European standards and seven years later, or today, you think that our businessmen were uncompetitive and that we had a problem with the international market and institutions. It should now be recalled that we are not uncompetitive on the market, both in the EU and in the EU market because these laws were not good, but we are not particularly competitive on that market, and unfortunately on our own, because the unilateral application of the SAA allowed uncontrolled imports of foreign goods into our market and thus destroyed the Serbian economy, producer and all others. On the other hand, it should also be noted that with the same contract, we are not competitive again on the EU market because, on the other hand, when we export, we pay both customs and tax and everything else. And this is actually just another one in a series of unsuccessful attempts at your journey and destabilising our economy, because this law will not contribute to anything, or to changes and additions, that our businessmen or anyone who stands on their feet and is competitive, not only on the international but also on their own market. Because as long as you go this way, the reason is that it is called the European Union, our businessman, producer, farmer, unfortunately, will not be competitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63243	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63244	You made one mistake, maybe even an oversight. This article refers to a third member of the law and talks about the export of dual-use goods and tells what the export of dual-use goods is. Among other things - the transmission of software and technology via electronic media, telephone or fax in an area outside the Republic of Serbia, but you left out here to write - social networks. Social networks are not only a means of communication, but they are increasingly traded through social networks and we thought, here, we just drew your attention that it would be good for you to accept this amendment and to include social networks also in one of the ways of exporting dual-use goods in accordance with this Article 3. You didn't accept it, and I have to tell you that whoever wrote an explanation for why it wasn't accepted doesn't know anything. I'm sorry, but that's right. You don't accept the amendment, so you explain to us what the amendment is and you say the amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the bill, and it says, since we are considering amendments and amendments to the law here, and not the law, then the amendment cannot be accepted. This is really no one living can understand. Does that mean that you think that you're the only one who has the right to change the law and that we don't really have to say anything here, or to endure amendments, because the law has to change the way you say it does? Actually, not as you say, but as you wrote in your explanation. In the draft law, imagine, EU experts participated, which drew attention to the fact that European legislation prescribed that this was an international practice to control the export of dual-use goods, etc. We remind you of a disastrous agreement that Serbia has signed, which is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which makes Serbia suffer great damage, Serbia's budget suffers great damage, our peasants suffer great damage. Thanks to this agreement, agricultural products and the agricultural industry are in big trouble because they are competing with goods from EU countries, which is more favourable, because they can be imported without customs duties. We've been paying attention to the execution of this agreement for years, but you, of course, are not responding because you are, in fact, legal followers, in the legal sense of that word, those before you not only as a state, but as a regime. In all, you have actually supported those yellow ones who made you, so you took over from them and you show it through this Stabilisation and Association Agreement and how you flock to the EU and how you signed the Brussels Agreements. Generally, therefore, you are no different from them and then little, little bit, so there is some law that draws us attention, simply so that we don't forget that you are the authority in continuity and that this continuity is actually a great shame, that you don't take care of people in Serbia. He's talking specifically about peasants here right now, but you don't generally take care of people in Serbia, and that's why people live very hard. The people of Serbia live very hard. I must also remind myself of the fact that you have boasted that from the new year the minimum earnings in Serbia will be 30,022,00 dinars. You haven't boasted, but it's generally known that the lowest pensions between 10 and 14000 dinars are, that the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. No one has yet explained to us from the government what to do for people without those 7,000 dinars for a minimum consumer basket, whether it takes a week to freeze, such as your practice to freeze your officials to allegedly take over a function of some kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63245	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63246	The independence of a country is something that requires all states, or their inhabitants to strive. Yesterday, one of his colleagues said that in the legal theory what Serbia now has is the highlight that can be achieved and there is nothing to be resented, it is about that. But through these laws, new laws, laws on changes and additions that we now have on the agenda, we less and less limit our independence. One of these laws through which this can be recognised both in practical and theoretical terms is this double-use export law. Here Member States, and you are not hiding it, you say that European experts participated in the adoption of this law, the law on amendments and amendments to the law, want to protect their market. When exports and imports of dual-use goods are said, above all, to conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction that have enormous mortality. These countries want to protect themselves from the influence of other countries and we accept it all. Of course, here comes the goods of broad consumption. That's where we don't take care. My colleagues have already talked about how to be competitive with farmers and other producers in EU countries or third world countries, how do you say that if we don't take care of ourselves enough? We have started some adjustments, not waiting for the EU SAA. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro in 2005 regulated the relationship between dual-use goods. Of course, what happened to that community of state happened. In 2013, Serbia passed the Law on importing and exporting dual-use goods, and now it's small, you're still going. When we wanted to intervene in this Article 3, the status of agricultural and all other producers in Serbia, by accepting this amendment, would not significantly improve and improve, but would partially remove some ambiguities and practically form something that should be. You didn't accept that either, including some locks to explain that under Article 161. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are not possible intervention in this way, and we just wanted to specify who is considered an exporter of goods from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63247	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed my amendment to a more precise solution to this Article 1. The reason for the adoption of this law states that the intention is to increase the number of foreign investments, as well as to dissipate business entities operating in our country. This law has been closed for six years and, as my colleague Miljan Damjanovic said, did it take so long to see that the procedure for the control of imports of goods is a double purpose of interference? Turns out we're the only country in Europe that's issuing licences for importing dual-use goods. Then when we defined ourselves for something that is only our inner matter, we controlled more than what Europe had prescribed. This is a kind of confirmation of the self-critical solution that we have defined ourselves for, but there is really no excuse that it takes six years for a procedure to be abolished, by the way, which takes about 30 days, and which is a distraction. In other words, when Europe did not defend us, we made it difficult for us, and then Europe accelerated through business entities the change of solutions that are now being proposed through amendments and additions to this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS thinks we play in this country and play with the laws, whether we bring them or enforce them. With us, the law has no meaning as in other developed and stable countries. And when we are not in crisis or transition or when we harmonize and agree with European role models, our laws are seasonal. That's why they either last for a while or often change and supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63249	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63250	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by the SRS to the Proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose shall apply to Article 1 of the existing Article 3. point 1 of the fourth indent. The bill after the text: "telephone", the text adds: "smart phone apps", which explains that the amendment solution is more precise for the transmission of software and technology via electronic media, fax or telephone in an area outside the Republic of Serbia. The law on exporting and importing dual-use goods is characteristic of the fact that at the time of the adoption of the law, our proposing, i.e. the Government had no obligation to choose such a solution, but they, behold, choose a solution that additionally burdened the economy with administrative procedures. In other words, Europe has not forced us to choose such a solution to the control of imports and exports of dual-use goods, and we have already done it ourselves and are now correcting that mistake with a delay about six years. In addition to these legal solutions, you stated that experts from European countries participated, so there are plenty of European proposals such as list 1, list 2, list 3. Conventions prohibiting the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons, i.e. international contracts or so on. the chemical convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63251	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, to ask you what's wrong with Minister Rasim Ljajic, he's been gone for a long time in the Assembly, and as far as I can see from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he's the one who's authorized, so we're wondering if everything's okay? The other thing, Mr. Minister, which you would have to explain, even if instead of Rasim Ljajic, is why hasn't this law been passed much earlier? You're talking again, you're working the other one, and you're thinking the third. In the light of this law and in the analysis of the effects of the law, you first talk about how the law is passed, how it is fully in line with EU legislation, how it is extremely good, and then you jump into your mouth and say it – it is good, but we have to change it because it is not exactly in agreement with the EU regulation. You here remind us, and in 2013, you claim that the law is in line with EU legislation. As far as I'm concerned, I wish no law was passed to comply with EU legislation. However, you reveal something else to us. You say that in 2013 EU experts participated in the drafting of the law, which, you say, drew attention to the fact that European legislation was prescribed, and that such international practice, to control imports of dual-use goods, as well as the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance services, while imports of these goods are not being controlled. At that moment, you say, now this on behalf of the government -- we felt there were no conditions for the abolition of the import control of these goods. EU experts stressed that it is important to comply with the provisions of binding regulatory No 428/2009 in terms of the definition and procedure of issuing licences, and that the country's internal matter is to control more than what is regulated by the regulation. You say - at that point it was also a practice in the legislation of most countries of the environment. You are therefore unable to give any serious reason for such a solution. You claim that your EU experts have warned you that the solution is not good. You admit practically that you made a mistake, and as the only reason you state that countries in the environment had a similar legal solution. Then you say -- in the meantime, the Republic of Serbia has practically remained the only country in Europe to control, or issue licences for importing dual-use goods. In this regard, countries in the environment have already changed their legislation – Croatia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and even Albania. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, why does Serbia, if you keep saying that we're some world champions and that we live in a golden age and that we're in World Bank's seventh place on their business list, does the EU know about this, does the World Bank know? Of course he knows, and you, here's another interesting piece of information, back in 2015, found that the law wasn't right, that you should bring the other one, so then, as you say, you made one working group. So, a task force composed of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration, the Security and Information Agency and the Ministry of Trade, tourism and telecommunications took part in the work to prepare the law with EU experts. In September 2015, some meetings were held, so they found that the law should be amended, so on 21 October 2015, interestingly again, with the support of the US Government programme held a seminar for academic and scientific institutions and the economy of the Republic of Serbia called - Import and Export Control of Double Purpose and then, I suppose, made similar conclusions. Four years have passed since then. There was more than enough time for that law to be in the congregation procedure much earlier. Of course not, but also, of course, you will continue to convince us that it is good when we discuss the same law several times, that it is probably a good thing and that it shows how democratic Serbia is, and in fact it would be much better if you would still listen a little more and appreciate other people's opinions and if you would give some well-intentioned advice, which we give through our discussions and through the amendments that we endure, you would listen to earlier rather than later.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63253	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63254	Here's something that's interesting for a colleague of Markovic's since he's a statistic here, so follow... And he's not here. I'm sorry. In this Article 1 we suggested that the exporter could export different means of communication and communication, so we said, among other things, that there are these definitions by e-mail, that it could also stand – the social network. The Ministry refuses the amendment. The means of communication, the transfer of information and everything that the modern world does are among other things the social network. What can in any case be characterized as positive is that in certain parts, when it comes to equipment imported for the purposes of the fair, it is definitely free from that paperwork that is related to imports because it is the equipment that is exhibited at fair stands, so there is no need to wait so long for this administrative procedure. We will later in the amendment, and we will say, let's say, that we intervene for equipment used in Serbia's territory and that the permit is issued for a maximum of one year, and we say -- it can be longer if that equipment is in operation, if it is used, and the permit is issued for a period of time while it is in use by that equipment and the Ministry, or the Government refuses. A colleague Markovic arrived, he is a statisticist. A man can't be that smart - what's the matter now. Is it because radicals have proposed this – social networks so it cannot or is in the domain of some great secrets so it cannot be used social network. Why would it be us, logically saying, why would it be a secret unless it was intended and ultimately an exporter and an importer, they decide how and how to communicate? That's good. There are some advantages when it comes to importing what is done with the Russian Federation. It's a good sign, generally looking, that you Eurofants broke once to be saved in the Russian Federation. However, you can't exactly boast about originality, because this originality was taken from you by Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. They're first with Putin. Since you're counting it, my colleague Markovic, you're a statistician, 17 times the president of Serbia, Vukic, was at Putin's, not 19th, as anyone wanted. Maybe it'll be by the new year 19. I'm sure it'll be 19 times before the election. It has been 17 times, and it is good in this programme with Russia that this import procedure simply comes down, conditionally speaking, to some European standards. It is unclear why this amendment is not accepted. If Minister Djordjevic could give an explanation, and if not, then we will wait for the Secretary-General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63255	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63256	Thank you. The President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so first of all, I would like to thank the previous speaker for his compliment... Milorad Mircic: What's his name? To the previous speaker, you know who I meant, Mr. Chairman, on the compliment that I'm a statistic. I believe that this compliment was due to the fact that the previous speaker noticed that I, from time to time, present accurate data in my speeches, in the National Assembly, and that is partly true. These are mostly data on Serbia's progress. On Serbia's progress in many fields, including the segment mentioned, which is developing bilateral relations between Serbia and Russia and how well it was noted, 17 times there was a meeting between Vukic and Vladimir Putin, which is certainly commendable. I did this morning's part of lapsus exposure, and I was wrong, so instead of 17, I said 19, and if it's any sin, here I apologize to you and the public. So it wasn't 19 times he met with Putin, it was only 17 times. I would like to ask – and how many previous leaders, presidents, prime ministers, met with Russia's leadership, with Putin? How many times? I'll tell you. Once, at most once. (Ljiljana Malušić: In 10 years. In 10 years, so says a colleague. And it speaks of Serbia's position, it speaks of Serbia's position, it says how one great force, such as Russia today looks and respects Serbia. Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. There is still a lot of data we have been talking about these days, which I have been presenting, and everyone relates to Serbia's progress. And progress, when it comes to the world's Duing-business list, right? And when it comes to raising pensions, and when it comes to raising wages in the public sector, and when it comes to increasing minimum earnings and we record that kind of progress, and when it comes to soon, the question is that we will reach a long-awaited salary of 500 euros. I'm talking about average income and all the other Serbian advances, and that's why we're proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63257	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63258	Well, you've gone one step further. You're in the domain of analysts, statisticians - analysts. You know, you're already getting into some water where you analyze how long someone before Wolfie was with Putin. It's already got some intimacy. The way you presented it, I understand it as intimacy, but what you're going to do is that. When a man stepped into those water statistics, then perhaps unconsciously made a mistake like you, I suppose for good reason, said 19 times, counting now in December and before the elections. Usually before the elections, you go to Putin, because Serbia votes that way. Who last met with Putin Serbia votes for him. Boris Tadic, twice went to Putin, won twice, never left the third time, will not have Serbia choose him, just so I don't know who he is. But what is the essence of a colleague here? You follow that statistics when it comes to all the lists, and do you know how we stand on the list when it comes to corruption? How we stand on the list when it comes to the standard of land above all in the environment. Where are we standing, what's the data? That's very interesting. It would be good, because you're following it, and I'm glad, and on the other hand, the issue here was to the minister, if he can explain - why social networks can't be a means of communication, when it comes to importers, exporters? If it's possible to get that answer, even in writing we're satisfied, Mr. Djordjevic, if you'd be kind enough to explain, let's see what the problem is. Like these promotions, I'm telling you again, the improvements are good, by later discussing the use of this equipment that's been imported for over a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63259	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63260	I thank the chairman. I have to admit, I have an understanding for the previous speaker that he would like to be able to talk to Vladimir Putin. I totally understand that. I believe he'd like to, if he were able to talk, meet with him, share an opinion. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen, but when it comes to the standard he mentioned... (Milorad Mircic: Unfortunately. I'm sorry for you. When it comes to the standard he mentioned and we talked about in the previous report, Serbia can boast of progress and about the standard of living of citizens. I remind you that the average salary in Serbia is higher, you mentioned a comparison with the countries in the region. Just when we compare the situation with what is called the countries of the region, therefore, we have information that the average salary in Serbia is higher than in many countries in the region, such as Northern Macedonia, BiH, Albania. An interesting case with Bulgaria, the minimum earnings in Serbia are higher than the minimum earnings in Bulgaria. When it comes to the inflow of investment, the inflow of investment in our country, foreign direct investment is bigger than all countries in the region combined, and these are not data that someone has given a flat-rate assessment, these are official economic indicators. So you can read that as official data from competent institutions dealing with it. I would like to conclude that I agree with one finding that anyone who talks to Alexander Putin before the elections will win the election. However, I must express concern that the parties of the previous speaker would not even help meet Putin to win the election. So Putin wouldn't help them win the elections in Serbia either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63261	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63262	I haven't had a moment to predict something or to be a prophet in some way, as part of some of the kind of analysis that you're dealing with, how this party or that party is going to go. Honestly, I'm telling you the most serious thing right now, I'd be worried about saying those words you said. The party president tells you he is a Serbian radical, and you predict that Putin will no longer help him return to power. Don't say that. Secondly, just a little correction, Alexander is Macedonian, and Vladimir is Putin. You can't cross a man. Don't take this the wrong way, just make a correction. Secondly, this statistics you use is a published colleague by the Central Bank, the NBS and the Republic Statistics Office. You're not quite right. That's what you compare to Bulgaria, that's just that one segment where you say it's a minimum personal income. That's not the point. There is much worse in Bulgaria than in Serbia. On the other hand, Bulgaria is not going through Serbia, but Serbia is obviously going through Bulgaria, and when Bulgaria was persuading what prosperity is in the EU, you know what my dear colleague told them first? That what they're doing, that they're leading in some productions like the production of a scent extract, that it's an over-tech technology, that it doesn't have any perspective in Europe, so all the machines, all the technology they've picked up, moved to the west, and now they say, now you're rich, because we're making that same extract with your roses. Secondly, they were released by all planes, all tanks, almost all military equipment and they said -- now NATO defends you, while you had your planes and tanks you were weak, now that you're being defended by NATO now you're strong. I would not like, I suppose, to see Serbia take the Bulgarian path and tell you again, not Bulgaria is going through Serbia, but unfortunately Serbia is moving slowly through Bulgaria, through Romania, so eventually Greece should serve in one piece as an example. So, this statistic isn't very good for you or you're not in agreement, so maybe you didn't follow up on social media, because we're proposing that with the amendment, maybe you're not the freshest, latest data you've sent, that'd be good to look at.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63263	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63264	First, we have two illogicalities. He says, the previous speaker -- now the most serious. Now I have to ask, did he joke before that when he decided to point out that from now on, he's going to talk. If he was joking, well, I'm not mad. Secondly, he said to return to power or something. Well, I'm asking now how can someone go back to power if they didn't leave power at all? That's what you said, but maybe it was a lapus. You know what the chairman is, I still haven't heard any concrete data denying my earlier claims, which is that Serbia has made significant leaps, and when it comes to the economy, and when it comes to the state of public finances, and when it comes to living standards and everything I talked about earlier. I haven't heard one single piece of information that would challenge my claims. Now, apparently, since the previous speaker paid some attention to the situation in the Bulgarian and Bulgarian roads, apparently he was engaged in Bulgaria, so he did not have time to follow Serbia's path and path, and the Serbian road says that the minimum profit in Serbia, while some before us led this country, was 16,000 dinars. It's official. There are over 30,000 dinars today. Is that a lot? I'm not saying it's much. Is that enough for a quality and decent life? I'm not saying it's enough. Of course we'll do our best to fix it in months and years to come, but it's twice as much as it was. We don't need either the World Bank, or the IMF, or any of those institutions you told us about to let us know. Serbian citizens feel they live better, because how else to explain if the average salary was between 330 and 340 euros, before the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power, and today it is 500 euros and there will be a little over 500 euros, then we don't need the World Bank or the IMF to explain it to us. Serbian citizens see it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63265	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63266	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll do the amendment and just look back...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63267	My colleague Marinkovic, you can't follow the amendment because my colleague Mircic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63268	Then the violation of Rules of Procedure 107, if allowed by the chairman, would be a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. For those people who look at us, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I just wanted to say that Serbia today is a country where they are very happy to come, we had this opportunity to see and to make sure, two weeks ago, on a big, so 141. The Interparliamentary Union Assembly and delegations from Israel, Iran, Pakistan, India, the Russian Federation, China, South Korea, the state of Latin America, Africa. So Serbia today is a country that has huge credibility throughout the globe. What is essential is to say that President Vukic had these 17 meetings with President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, but also similar to the number of meetings with Angela Merkel. I want to remind our citizens that President McCron, President of France, was here in Serbia, spent two days and that we have restored our strategic partnership and friendship with France, but we do not forget our friends from Latin America either. He also met with President Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly. Guatemala is a country that supports the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, that we have managed to make one of the two countries from Latin America that has recognised so-called. Independent Kosovo, let's convince it to suspend its recognition. It's about Peru. That we have managed to convince 14 countries of Africa, Latin America and Asia to withdraw their so-called recognition. An independent Kosovo. Serbia will continue, headed by President Vukic, to lead such a policy, a policy of good relations with all. The other day we signed an agreement with the Eurasian Union, but also how we are working to improve our relations, intensify relations with both the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, but also with the US and EU countries. Because it was about fighting corruption. Serbia has never had such a harmless and uncompromising fight against organised crime and corruption. We are also trying to make sure the police minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic, works daily to ensure that tolerance towards corruption is zero. That's why Serbia has 4.1 today, if you want to deal with statistics, economic growth. Let's not compare ourselves to Bulgaria, compare ourselves with Poland, the Czech Republic, the multi-city group countries, the developed EU countries, 4.1. We are second in Europe after Poland in economic growth, the ninth in the world, so the ninth in the Duing Business List of the World Bank according to the building permits issued. Four billion euros will have foreign direct investment in Serbia, more than all countries combined the Western Balkans, plus Croatia, which is the EU country. So we're absolute champions. You are now comparing us to some Bulgarian. Do you think, and I'm sure you don't think so, because Mr. Mircic well knows the law and the economy, that we can come up with a profit so easy in Serbia, which is actually our wish and where we aim to achieve it, and that's an average of 800, 900 euros. Today it is 500 euros, with 366 euros as it was in 2015. Of course, I will not ask the National Assembly to declare themselves in voting day, but I demand that my fellow Members of Parliament base our debates on arguments and on this statistics that my colleague Aleksandar Markovic was just accused of. We are people who are serious, who are seriously committed to developing this country, people who are patriots, who are seriously accessing and defending national interests through strengthening the economy, through strengthening the military, through strengthening our country's defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63269	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63270	I don't want seven minutes, I'm going to be a lot shorter, and I'm talking on the basis of article 27. Let's just say all this stuff that my colleague Marinkovic said is true, all these praises, all like that, only then something doesn't add up. Why did he place all this in violation of the dignity of the National Assembly? Because he intervened according to article 107. So, colleague Marinkovic thinks that all of these successes of Alexander Vukic, which he was talking about here, are a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. There.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63271	My colleague Radeta, I think that my colleague Marinkovic thought that a violation of dignity was what your colleague Mircic was saying, our colleague. I don't know what you think, but what he said. ) On that basis, I must answer your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He didn't even ask for the Assembly to be declared in the voting day ahead. Did I ask for it? You didn't ask, now I'm going to ask you. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63272	Article 27(1) only. So, fellow Arsic, let's get on with it, you were on your way, maybe you didn't get some rest. If so, you could still rest today. If my colleague Marinkovic is tired, here I am rested, I can always replace you there, that's what the Rules of Procedure lets me do, only the advances don't let me. So you didn't just ask your colleague Marinkovic, or he said he didn't want to make a statement. You, after my intervention in the Rules of Procedure, allowed yourself to comment on what my colleague Marinkovic meant. So, he specifically said -- a member of 107 was injured because Serbia had betrayed, I don't know which is on the list for issuing construction permits, because Vukic saw himself with whom, because the countries withdrew the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo, because Vukic is this, because it is what, therefore, all within the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, I don't say, but says counterpart Vladimir Marinkovic, and you are now trying to say what he meant. You know, who knows what I'm thinking right now, but you know what I'm saying, and it's the only thing that can be a topic of conversation, and then you're telling me that you didn't answer him, and you tried to answer me for hurting the Rules of Procedure because my colleague said he didn't want the Assembly to plead the injury, and I didn't say anything. You were throwing beans again, and now you knew that I was actually going to say that I didn't want the National Assembly to plead for the injury. I'm just asking you to focus, you don't need a Rules of Procedure, I said that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. And don't make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63273	Radeta colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure who is currently chairman, can only break him, not the MP, it is one. Two, you didn't say that you wanted the National Assembly to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's true, but you didn't explicitly say you didn't want to. If you do not explicitly say you do not want to, then I am obliged to give you an explanation on the same Rules of Procedure why I did so to my colleague Marinkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, following my explanation? (The Faith of Radet: For God's sake, Arsic, how many times shall I say it?) All right. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63274	Well, here, listening to some colleagues, I thought that that RTS show "What are you doing?" was a collage of some and everything, all kinds of data, set out with Vukic, with Putin, really a man should separate it one afternoon to follow it, so he could finely systemize those data that were provided by some colleagues, as a colleague spoke of the standard that we are above Macedonia, that we are above Albania, that we are above Bosnia, these two are, but Bosnia is not, BiH is not a colleague, unfortunately, it is about average income and income levels in certain countries. And when it's standard, let me just tell you colleague Markovic, relatively what the standard is. Why is it relative? Because you have one example that I want to show you how ungrateful it is to analyze it the way you do. In Belarus, the average income is 400 euros, when it is converted it is 400 euros. For 400 euros, a worker or a family living in Belarus can cover all life expenses, pay electricity, utility, provide food for a month and set aside for summers and winters. In Western Europe, you have incomes that are on average 1,700 to 1,800 euros depending on what country. For those 1,700, 1,800 euros can cover basic living costs, pay electricity, pay the utility, but can't go on vacation and can't go on winter and there's this relativity when it comes to the standard. The standard is what a man can afford to live as a human being does and that he can provide for himself not only that basic existence but also to provide something called a vacation for both him and the family. As for the corruption issue I asked you, my colleague Markovic, that is where Serbia stands very badly when it comes to the list, and this has been warned by the EU, it has given a warning. There's Serbia at 0.5, and the maximum is 1.5. So you have to make sure that someone sees it on the sidelines independent of you and me, who neither you nor I influence and clearly assesses the situation of corruption. So you have to keep that in mind, and that's kind of warning, it's not alarming yet. As for this misunderstanding about contact with Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin, you said that radicals will not come to power because they will not be able to be with Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Well, we're counting Vukic's 17 times, so he's certainly radical, not that he won't be admitted as a radical by Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Well, you too, Mr. Markovic, weren't very indifferent to Spence when he consciously said that you've been radicals for 11 years. So don't hide it, it's not something a man should be hiding. It is something to be proud of because the tradition in Serbia is in radicals and socialists, and this is all for single use, Mr Martinovic knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63275	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63276	Again we have, sir chairing inconsistencies one in addressing the previous speaker. That's kind of cute. Look, now that the EU has given recognition to Serbia for any result, anything at all, so whether it is an economic outcome, whether progress on the world's Dujing business list, whether pay increases, whether raising living standards, anything, then it is not true for him, Europe has bad intentions and so on. And when some information came out of that EU which, by the way, was given that information, how we fell in some ranking when it came to the percentage of corruption, then this information was taken for granted, taken without prejudice and declared to be moderate. So it is one inconsistencies that is simply not acceptable, or you are either to recognise the results of the EU, European institutions or not. You decide what you're out of those two. When it comes to statistical methods that have gone a little deeper lately than the previous speaker, I see he's been dealing with these different statistical methods, how some data can be presented in different ways. I have to say right away that I'm not professional when it comes to this area, but I think that speaking of living standards he actually had in mind the purchasing power of citizens, when he compared some countries, when he compared the situation in those countries, so how much money can be bought with as many supplies or something. Again, I have to say that he actually confirmed everything I've said before. You have to bear in mind that inflation for the last seven years is one or two percent, so now we're talking about the purchasing power of citizens. The purchasing power of citizens is seen in inflation, at the rate of inflation. Inflation's gone, inflation's low, one or two percent of the last few years. I'll remind you that it used to be two digits, each year it was a minimum of two digits, or a minimum of 10% and more, and now it's gone. So when a citizen has 360 euros in salary, he can buy products for the 360 euros. When he has 500 euros in salary, he can buy 500 euros in products. So, even that finding of his does not lie that actually purchasing power is not the way I tried to explain it a little while ago. Therefore, citizens have the opportunity to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63277	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63278	I don't want to bother parliament either, especially those who follow this transmission, but to my colleague Markovic, you have to concentrate, first when you're presenting some data, then you have to stand by the arguments behind it. It is often referred to here as inflation as an argument to the success of this government. Let me tell you one thing, inflation, but you get this condition, at least it depends on this government. Inflation in the world is low. In 2008, when the global economic crisis was inflation was much higher. Now inflation is about 2% everywhere, in more developed Western European countries it is below 2%. (Alexander Markovic: So do we. ) Well, not with us, colleague Markovic, we have something above 2%, but it is not alarming or warning. Among other things, it's good for us. No one knows how long it'll take. A new global economic crisis is being announced. When it comes to potential independence, how would Arsic now grant Verica a session, only that he, as an economic expert, explains that what we are discussing is not so but in his view. But, here, there's one consolation, Mr. Arsic, you put out a script, so if someone buys it, let them learn by those scripts, and let us continue a serious debate. The point is, you know the IMF is here. The International Monetary Fund is in some way, let me present roughly, as executioners, no mercy. The International Monetary Fund prescribes what needs to be done. He is a representative, representing creditors, the World Bank which has given money to Serbia on behalf of the loan for some investments. The best example that supports what I'm telling you is this Swiss model of retirement. This is what the IMF has set for you, because the IMF does not allow pensions to be increased the way the salaries have increased, which is the logic of things, but it has set a model, and what is presented to the public is that it is a model that is the product of government's work and what the government's mind and thinking says is for the public. The International Monetary Fund is deeply opposed to raising pensions as wages have been raised. The International Monetary Fund sees the debtor at peace with his obligations regularly, not making money. He cares about returning regular loans and that is the essence of my colleague Markovic, I believe that you are the man who takes this seriously, you are not like a fellow Arsic who jumps right away. He thinks I have a bad opinion about his expertise. It's been confirmed so many times that I have no words.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63279	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63280	I don't understand why a man often says things and doesn't check them out first. It's not the average salary in Belarus, first of all, 400 euros. The initial salary in Belarus is $650, so the lowest salary, that's about 600 euros, as far as I know. So, don't go after grandmas and frogs, etc. That's the first thing. The second thing, I say, the IMF only takes care of its claims to some state or other banks. (Milorad Mircic: No claims, no bank. ) Wait, does this mean that we should act irresponsiblely and that no matter who raised those loans as they are, often unfavorable, we should not return? We have to get them back. It's not that we need to, it's that we have to get them back. Come on, if you want to participate in international trade, in trades in goods, services, and be the country through which goods and transit and tourism go through to deal with, I guess you have to pay your dues first. The International Monetary Fund, as they represent it here, doesn't matter to us that they tell us what we need to do, and to be clear right now, we had total sovereignty, but it was important to us what estimates it would give in terms of how we implement the reforms and the goals that we ourselves drew, not the IMF. Based on these assessments given by the IMF, you are actually starting to quote on various lists that judge you whether you are a favourable country for investment or not, or whether you can be in charge of one interest rate rather than the other and so on. Third thing, check again, that's inflation. At the beginning of the global economic crisis in 2008, all the eurozone countries, and our economy to be the most based on the euro area and the euro, had very low inflation, so low that besides all the problems they had, and this very low inflation threatened to, even Germany, which was then the economic engine of the entire Eurozone to bring into recession. It can't be an excuse to the former regime for the global economic crisis that we had inflation 10%, 12% and 16%. They printed the money, don't justify it to my colleague Mircic. As the money was printed, it was done by communists in the '70s, '80s, and only then did you not have to repay the loan. Or, when you take it and it's time to bring it back it's no longer worth anything, those times are over, it can't come back. So forget about these operations and make sure that the data you're exporting is true. Inflation today is about the same as in Serbia, so we have no problem with national currency, and yet, when your national currency is stable, when you have no inflation, you created conditions for your economy to develop, the population to start living better. It is not that time in 2008 and 2009, when Boris Tadic and the former regime raised 5% of pensions, profits in the public sector 5%, and inflation 12%. Well, what did they increase? Life costs by 7%, that's their score. You can argue with something, but please use the right arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63281	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63282	I'm sorry, buddy, but for the first five minutes, I haven't been following up on your exposure, so don't mind me, I've been thinking about smart stuff, so I have nothing to say to you. My proposal, Mr Marinkovic, is that you are a man who has broad views, that all of these speeches, if possible from Mr Arsic in the area of economics, finance, monetary policies, are corrected into a small manual, and that would be useful in any case for future generations to come, and perhaps colleagues will not benefit Markovic, but we will also find it significant. So that's my only answer. I'm fascinated, you've moved Lukashenka, you've even declared that there's a much higher standard in Belarus than the President of Belarus himself... You're kind of a phenomenon. Here, if possible, to be honest with you, I especially admire people like you, who have so much data, are not all usable, but the data is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63283	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63284	All right, colleague Marinkovic, let me be stupid, as my colleague Mircic said. Milorad Mircic: What did I say? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63285	That's not what I'm saying. I wouldn't let that happen, colleague Arsic, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63286	While I was talking, he was thinking about smart things. I told you you were stupid? ) Unlike him, I also had the opportunity to host the President of Belarus, Lukashenko, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so we talked about the economy, about their low unemployment rate and why they're holding it at such a low level, and why it's almost gone and whether it can be gone and not count everything. When I was seven years old, they put that pioneer hat on my head, put around my shoulder that pioneer scarf, but then I was seven years old. Now I'm 50 years old, I guess I'm thinking like a 50-year-old, and the ones that stayed with the hats and scarves in that time, I can't really help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63287	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63288	I'm just surprised. I couldn't imagine that you were once seven years old. That's fascinating to me. I was deeply convinced that you were much older born. And as far as this iconography is concerned, it's not a shame that you've been living in your age and the same time, maybe it's not a shame to be with that hat and scarf. It's part of a man's life. We couldn't decide whether or not we were going to wear it, but with a set of circumstances, when you're going so personal. I've never put that hat on myself, or a scarf, on a set of random circumstances, but I can't say I deserve it. It's a set of random circumstances. The disease stopped me from doing it, so I shouldn't be out of it right now after all these years. It's not to point out. But I'm really surprised that you've ever been seven in your life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63289	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63290	You see, they put that hat on me when I was seven. Looks like my esteemed coworker put it as much as yesterday. How much yesterday they put Tito's hat and handkerchief around his shoulder. All in good time, my colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63291	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63292	I don't want to replicate to you now, later when I listen to the tape or I see it in the stenogram, then I'll answer you this. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63293	Thank you very much. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Here you go. German.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63294	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after these communist impressions we could hear from Mr. Arsic, that's what's tangible about what he can talk about from his experience. As for what SNS and DS are not different about. their governments and their regimes are that both parties have taken some decisions that come to us from the EU, conditions that they later implemented and implemented in Serbia, although the advances have promised to reconsider everything the Democrats have done. We saw it wasn't anything. It's not from the agreement, so-called. "Bork Agreements" with so-called "Bork Agreements". "Republic of Kosovo", none of these privatisations, nor the fight against corruption, none of that. That is how they adopted the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is one of the causes of the collapse of our economy and cause and the fact that this is how we live in Serbia today. That we would really do that. if the government wanted to put a better standard of living in the first place, to try to raise salaries and pensions, not only those imaginary averages, but that the vast majority of people in Serbia have that salary that is enough for the minimum consumer basket, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement should be reviewed above all, and I will remind you that the losses from this unilateral application and elimination of customs duties were more than 500m euros per year. So that's the first condition to then think about these Swiss pensions that we hear about, the German standard and everything else. Go ahead, deal with the reality first in Serbia, and then talk about equating with
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63295	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Charapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63296	I thank the chairman. First of all, I want to say that President Vukic, Alexander Vukic and Putin met 17 times, and on December 4th and 18 times. It doesn't really matter, it's just a number, a number of visits. A huge advance from the previous government and from all previous ones. But it is important for us to soon end the Turkish flow through our country from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary. It is important to us that the Russian Federation is our largest importer of agricultural products, one of the largest, and the EU is here, of course. We do not want to give up any economic benefits from neither the Russian Federation nor China nor the EU nor anyone. As for the interpretation of the amendments themselves, from the amendment promoter from the SRS parliamentary group, today we have had the opportunity to hear contradictory attitudes. The class tells us that we need to release, or reduce the costs of our producers, and that when regulated by law, as a proposal for a law we are discussing today, is importing and exporting dual-use goods. Therefore, the law provides that importers, or manufacturers, are to be exempt from paying taxis when importing equipment or dual-use machinery. I do not really see anything controversial, and I believe that this law, in fact, regulates what MPs of the SRS propose, so to free our manufacturers from additional taxis so that our products are competitive with both EU products and other markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63297	By amendment, MP Alexander Seselj. (Alexander Seselj: Mention of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63298	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First of all, that the SNS is leading Serbia towards a path to the EU is the fact that the outcomes of this policy are devastating, that is the same fact. There can't be a single encounter between Alexander Vukic and Vladimir Putin, don't get me wrong, I stand for it, for deepening co-operation, to meet once a month, if necessary. None of these meetings can compensate for the bad consequences of the policy in Serbia. About our products. You know, because of this EU, we are in such a situation as to have a foreign investor here in Serbia 10,000 euros per job, free land and all possible permits by accelerated procedure and free of charge. With these conditions, our domestic investor cannot be competitive with its product in Serbia, and it cannot yet be competitive anywhere in the EU. This is because the EU does not see Serbia as an equal partner, as a future member state with which to co-operate and does not care about our economic progress. It is exclusively the EU that cares that we will give up our territory as soon as possible and that our citizens serve as a cheap workforce, as considering that we, apart from giving them 10,000 euros per job, can pay a 250-euro worker in the EU, and in Germany there should be 1,200 euros. That's the basic reason for our co-operation and that effort to make them appear here as our friends and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63299	Right on the line, MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63300	In my recent presentation, I asked colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group to show us the law or some sublegal act, the regulation, where our domestic investors' subsidies are particularly regulated, especially foreign subsidies. I don't think there's any difference and there's no such legal act. So the subsidies are the same for everyone. The point is whether the subsidy is 10,000 euros, whether five, whether 15, that's all for every employee in employment goes back to us in the Republic of Serbia's budget through the billing and paid taxes on earnings. It comes back to us through the Pension Insurance Fund, through the Health Insurance Fund, etc., so through value added tax. Whether the capital is foreign or domestic, when invested in some production plant or invested to build a new factory, it is subject to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So whether a producer or service provider is a foreign investor or a domestic investor, it settles obligations under the laws in force in the Republic of Serbia. I really don't think that we should give up 62,000 jobs, as far as we currently work in German companies, Serbian citizens are particularly interested in working, that their salaries will be over 500 euros by the end of the year, and let's remember, only six or seven years ago, the average earnings in Serbia were 320 euros. That's what the citizens of Serbia are interested in -- living standards. Anything else, whether the investor is foreign or not, that doesn't matter that much to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63301	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63302	Mr. Arsic, my colleague, the Sorceress obviously didn't follow. The president of the SNS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, in all the talks, has made it clear to everyone and even somewhere that he has offered representatives of Folkswagen a bet that there are no better conditions for foreign companies than Serbia. And like everything in Serbia about investment in money from the budget, where the finance minister and everyone in the finance ministry find out at press conferences. In the "Future of Serbia" campaign, Aleksandar Vukic tours all over Serbia, and wherever he thinks he may not be bright enough, that some time he needs to be renovated, some toilet at school to fix himself, he just lists it and then writes it down. Or whatever comes to mind. And in such an environment and such an atmosphere, what does any legal act have to do with it? And where is predictability and transparency in all this? Given that we can say for ourselves that we have Swiss pensions and a German standard, so we can also talk about the illusion that domestic businessmen with foreign businesses are evenly equal in Serbia, although that is not true. Because we don't care. If we can have a German standard, we can talk whatever we want. Or to be second in Europe, as Mr Marinkovic said. The reality is that only the role of Serbia in the Eurointegration process is to provide cheap labour. Don't get it wrong. It is certainly better for someone to be employed than not to be employed, but it is necessary to take a little care of the long-term consequences of such a policy. Because at one point, every investor can just pick himself up and leave Serbia, even though he has not invested a single penny, and what have we done, and then what is the result of our entire economic policy from this golden age?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63303	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Ana Čaapić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63304	Thank you, Chairman. I really follow everything my party president said in the media and he did not say that our subsidies are the largest, but said that subsidies from other countries are not large enough, they are small. He didn't say our big ones were smaller than ours, and that's not the same. I repeat again, I really do not think that Serbian citizens want to give up their jobs, because they have indeed suffered, and I can say, on my own case, all sorts of things by 2012, so that the Government of the Republic of Serbia equally attracts both foreign and domestic investors. For example, a local site has recently been opened in Kursumlia, i.e. a cornerstone for the construction of a domestic factory in the area of the dedicated industry, and that is certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63305	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63306	We don't need our subsidies to be the biggest, the only thing that matters is that they're bigger than everyone else. So, of course, no one is so abnormal, especially from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, that they can say such a thing that it is better that people do not work than work, that they have a higher salary than they have a lower salary, etc. But there are some dangers in these foreign investments that we are not aware of. First of all, in parallel experiences. Look at all those countries where the IMF ran the main word and all those who relied on these foreign investors, no one developed in this way, but only in deeper debt. Look at the countries of South America where the IMF played the biggest role, in what state it was. They're simply interested in just buying what's cheap for us to take advantage of our conditions, old-fashioned, failed factories to buy for the buddhism. They get everything here for free and why don't they come here? We pay these budget workers, these subsidies. The Serbian Progressive Party, before it came to power, criticised it. Perhaps Mr. Arsic will help you, but, indeed, these are some of the facts I'm talking about. As long as we are blindly attached to the path of Eurointegration, that will be the situation in Serbia. No one thinks about what will happen when suddenly the amount of these investors and people who are employed here, when they are so busy growing their blackmail potential, they will start to make political decisions in Serbia under the impression that, if their will is not done, through the Serbian government, through the Serbian parliament, they will leave Serbia and leave all the thousands of workers we paid before that without a job. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63307	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to a replica has an Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63308	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, let me give you an example. For example, during the former regime, our people, in the absence of work, our people went to Germany and hired. And now the Germans are coming to our country, opening up companies, so our citizens don't go to Germany to work. So we're left with people in Serbia. Taxes and contributions are paid under the current legal system in the Republic of Serbia. Children are born in Serbia. So we're even worried about Natalie. That's what the government of the Republic of Serbia's goal is. When it comes to subsidies, we are just looking at the practices of developed countries and those that have managed to reduce the unemployment rate and raise the standard of living. For example, the Czechs, the Hungarians, the Slovaks, they had more subsidies than we have, and that produced results. They knocked down the unemployment rate and raised the standard of living for the citizens. This is what citizens in all countries are interested in, of course, in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63309	Thank you. Now the word is Gjorge Komlenski. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. I'll give you a replica, but Mr. Komlenski answered. I have to respect him. Hold on, be patient. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting out of place. ( b) Can you be patient? We'll get there. Don't worry, we've got time, we're working. Mr. Seselj is a patient man. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63310	Thank you. I answered the line a long time ago, but I'm very, very patient. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, now that they mention one of my esteemed colleagues here and 1945, I heard this, I really must say that one who has not noticed and is unable to notice that the economy of 2012 was like in 1945, when the war ended, has to think a little bit about its views. And in 1945, and then, and in 2012, we came here from this state of economy and, not to say, pre-bankrupt or with a broken-down entire economy, we pulled ourselves out on voluntary work, on effort, on belt tightening, on foreign loans, on investments, on sacrifice. Therefore, we would not have talked today about a possible 500-euro average salary in Serbia if we hadn't used similar principles as in 1945. The Socialist movement, as everyone knows, is not in favour of joining the EU, but will respect what citizens of the Republic of Serbia decide one day in the referendum. They reiterate that our position and interest are to see what is called the EU route as a recovery of the Serbian economy, standing on our feet, and that the full stomach, peaceful hands of Serbian citizens someday decide whether or not to come to the EU, and not that, as some of our neighbours, crawling into the EU and living worse than we do today. So I'm going to go back to something I've been hearing all the time, more and more, which is, he says, while we were friends we lived as gentlemen. I think she's telling you a lot of things. Therefore, I understand why this size and need to make very frequent contacts, including direct contacts with MPs, believe that Russia is also functioning as a large country, as well as China, as one of Serbia's largest strategic partners at the moment and as one of the important supporters of our development. I will remind you, and I hope to feel it upon the return of a large delegation of the Serbian parliament going to China that you will understand that China has managed to be what it is today, thanks to the fact that there are still ligatures around the neck, wearing five-pointers at the head, but very successfully, the Communist Party of China manages the entire economy, its stability and its development. Therefore, I expect that my distinguished colleagues traveling to China will have the opportunity to feel it, understand, understand, and since there is no one in the Socialist Movement in that delegation, I understand it in such a way that the Socialist movement, which has exceptional co-operation with the Communist Party of China, has no need for such training and understanding how the economy system works in China, how the statehood system works in China, so we do not mind that we are not involved in that delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63311	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63312	Thanks to you, Mr. Marinkovic, and your impreciseness, I have now forgotten everything Mrs. Charapic spoke before Mr. Komlenski. As for these experiences, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, etc., there are salaries higher, but these countries are over-indebted, these countries are the EU's periphery. The European Union, as it watched what was most valuable in Serbia to kidnap, i.e. EU investors, so before that in Hungary and the Czech Republic. A monopoly of European banks in both countries, banks from Western Europe, Raiffeisen, Erste, etc. The monopoly on all industrial plants and these countries are now three times more in charge than they were before they joined the EU and are not in the euro area either. Why should these countries burden the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, those who are not sufficiently developed? In the EU equality exists only on paper, some countries are more equal than others. Even that's not enough for us to compare ourselves to them. We must compare ourselves with Romanians and Bulgarians, who are the same as us. Romania has almost three times as many residents as Serbia, and we have Romanian workers in Banat, entrepreneurs who come to work in Serbia. The same situation in Bulgaria. Those countries aren't even in Schengen. Moving out every 10 years, a minimum of 10% of the population has moved out of those countries. That's the EU. These are effects in the Balkans, Balkan countries. We have this German standard, as we have economic growth bigger than Germany, I mean, we can talk about it as much as we want, but it's simply not true, given that when the German economy grows 1%, it's still 10, 20, 30 times more than when the Serbian economy increases by 1%. So, given the experience of our first neighbours, it takes more sober, more rationally to make decisions, not to get drunk with these fairy tales and false promises about some European funds and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63313	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63314	Article 107, Chairman. When we talk about countries that are friendly to us, we provide accurate information. I am now going to say the exact 2018 data for 2019. No public debt of the Czech Republic, 32.7%, far below the Mastricht. Let me say, Slovakia, 48.9, and he's under the Mastricht. Only Hungarian 70%, close to 71%, but they have stable growth, so they can do it. I still don't understand this blindness that if anyone comes to invest money in Serbia, we should in every way forbid it. Not only must we forbid him, but we must not even help him start, whether he is a domestic investor or a foreign investor. The state is no longer an employer, and we cleared that up when we took off our pioneer hats and scarfs, I guess! That's when we cleared it up. I'm hoping that's finally how someone figured it out. The second thing, I don't know what's wrong with "Folkswagen" coming to Serbia? Third thing, for whom do we allocate funds, if not for our citizens? Who do we raise funds for? To our citizens. What are we going to do, watch the squires, watch the meadows, what, why, that no one uses? Is it better to make a factory or keep it and keep it a secret – that's ours, that's ours, that's ours? Do we have any use for that? It's not going, it's not running. So far, there has been a story about the EU. They say, "They will come, so what if they leave?" Okay. Do we only cooperate with one side? Do we only cooperate with one country? No, we're also working with the Russian Federation. Another investor in Serbia is the People's Republic of China. The first countries are the eurozones. We're working with everyone. They don't decide that, politically, when they will come and when they will leave. They decide based on their own economic interest. Everyone, not just the Eurozone, but the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. Some of our friends are a little bit higher, so that standard for their economic interests is going to be a little lower, but that's it. It's a world where we live and it's not always very pleasant and easy. Forget it, we survived that time when the state was an employer, we got over it. We can't keep up with other technologies. We can't be competitive on the market, so you can see that these companies, domestic, public enterprises, operating on the market, can't compete with competitors doing the same work, because the state is asking for the law on public procurement to be implemented. Does "Telenor" need the Public Procurement Act? No, I don't. They'll carry it out based on their experiences. Is this a difficult environment for Telecom to operate as a mobile operator? Yes, it is. Imagine if you had a whole economy like that, so I could see what it would look like and would you be successful? Not only on the domestic market, but also outside Serbia, how would they export? I'd love to see if we could... It used to be called, I mean, planned... (Alexander Seselj: Planska. )......................................................................................................... planned production. You see how I know. You know, you follow that ideology. I'd rather do market business, really, for what it's worth, that's how much money we get, not based on some imaginary values. (President: Thank you. ) I would ask my colleague, Marinkovic, to pay attention once again not to provide incorrect information for countries that are friendly to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63315	Thank you, colleague Arsic, for this elaborate. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the People's MP Alexander Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63316	Article 108, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Arsic is very banalizing what I said. So, Mr. Arsic was a member of the SRS for a long time. He's probably familiar with the SRS economic program. That hasn't changed much. It's just modernized now. We didn't take over the DS program and we advocate privatisation and we advocate the free market, but one is robbery, and the other is privatisation. So these two things aren't the same. It is one thing with political pressures when an investor comes to buy something here, someone will hire, of course, etc., and it is quite different when we are told that we are obliged to have someone come from Western Europe or from the West to be an investor here and to all of this arrangement, which implies 10,000 euros per job, all of these permits free of charge and land for free of charge. So we're against it. We just can't approve. We are against the political pressures that have after impact on our finances and our economy. We are opposed to that of an American company that got a special job building the Moravski Corridor Preljina – Pojate at the price, which we have now heard, that there will be more than 800m euros, and the Chinese companies were able to use the same device for 500m euros. We're against robbery. We're against corruption. We're not against the highway. How is it possible that the Chinese company is good for us for the pride of western Serbia Highway "Milos Veliki", and it is not good for us for the Moravia Corridor? Where's the logic? We just want to stop understanding something that comes from Europe as something sacred, it can also be criticised, and everything that comes here from the EU comes because it is in the interest of the EU, not because it is in Serbia's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63317	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63318	Member of the 27th Chairman. Let me get this straight. The Chinese company would probably get a job building a highway if they estimated it was in their economic interest and they applied. But they didn't. What do we do? It's their right. We can't force anyone to do anything, especially the People's Republic of China. They said -- we're going to take part in some other projects, we're not going to take part in this. We need that highway, so that highway will be made. I would really like someone to convince me that Folksvagen is politically asking the Republic of Serbia, meaning political pressure, through Germany's political leadership of 10,000 euros to open a factory in Serbia. That when someone convinces me, I'll run for the Nobel Prize. Right now. I'll ask him to win the Nobel Prize if he can convince me. Really, really, don't say things like that. Tell me, what investor came to Serbia that he was politically blackmailing the management of subsidies? We fought for every investor. For everyone. We begged them to come. Forget all that talk. No one comes to Serbia to achieve their economic interest. Our goal is to achieve our economic interest as well. Our economic interest is to hire our people. Our economic interest is to keep our people here. Our economic interest is to be born, to be married, to be married, to be educated by children. It's our economic interest. If we're going to guard the meadows, then some other people will have to come in 20, 30 years to guard the meadows under that program you're offering. Some others, perhaps Romanians, perhaps from Bulgaria, because the Serbs will no longer be here, because we will insist on keeping the meadows that have grown into weeds, chicars. And so no matter what others do or how much progress they make, we're gonna tap into the place for some kind of ideology. I don't think I'm part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63319	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word has Alexander Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63320	The dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Marinkovic. First of all, we don't sell meadows. We sell our old plants. Secondly, we sold the IMR three times below the price to have apartments, parking lots and shopping malls there. This is the most recent case. A billion dinars, but it's worth three billion. Is that what happened? That was a few days ago. What's the problem with this Moravia Corridor is that the public invitation was written so that only "Bechtel" on it could pass, and a year before that with "Bechtel" the Ministry of Transport and Zorana Myalovic signed a protocol of understanding. They had a year's advantage here compared to any other company before they got the job officially through a Lex specialise on determining public interest, if I'm not mistaken. Of course, it does not say "Bechtel" anywhere in the law, but it is clear that anyone can interpret, especially what we know, is generally known in Serbia, the influence that the US Embassy has on the government of the Republic of Serbia is via Zorana Mihajlovic. That's the connection. That's why Bechtel is in Serbia. Bechtel worked somewhere in the region. In Croatia, the economy minister had to resign because Bechtel went to the Split-Karlovac highway tender. Right? Because these are some prices that are much higher than they are real, and that's because eventually someone because of their ties to the American Embassy is sharing the rest of the money. It's corruption. That's what I was talking about, not the meadows, Mr. Arsic. I've never been a communist before. Maybe you mixed me up with someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63321	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) (Veroljub Arsic: Article 103) Veroljub Arsic, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63322	Article 103. (Alexander Seselj: How do you know he's a member of 103?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63323	He said man.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63324	I told my colleague Marinkovic. You don't need to remind me, but my esteemed colleague Alexander Seselj needs to distinguish some legal concepts. It was not sold to the IMR but was sold to the property of a creditor under the Banking Act. It is exactly how it is envisaged that the first time the assets are sold, and secondly, how the value of the assets is changed, etc. It didn't buy a foreign investor, as far as I know, but some domestic, whole consortium. There's a problem, which is trying to create one impression that we have to keep everything safe, and if it doesn't serve anything anymore, there's no point. You can't sell it anymore as a legal person. You can't sell any more of his machines because the last one was bought 40 years ago. You have no one left to go back to work because these workers have long or left Serbia a long time ago, or retired. Then we will keep shouting: it is ours, and it is ours, and let it fail; it is ours, just as the dragon has fallen. Where the factory halls used to be, wild animals can attack you today. That's one part of the story. Serbia must develop and everyone who wants to operate in Serbia is welcome. If we need to help them start their business in Serbia, we will help each other with our domestic investor. Let's list the domestic investors. I don't think you'll like the list. I wouldn't either. What do you think, Mr. Miskovic would immediately wait to do a so-called good deed for the state after how much he robbed it. Among other things, I think he wanted that location from the IMR, during the DS former regime, but they would have given it to him, it wouldn't have been sold for this much money. So he also wanted to buy Red Stars Stadium, then Partizana Stadium, and make market centres there. These are our domestic investors who have serious money. There are fair ones, but they don't have that financial power, there's no fair money in these quantities like Miskovic and the other sugars, so I don't count them all, as they've drawn the money. Is there any discussion here today about not being prosecuted? Some colleagues respected, from your MP club, were witnesses that the former regime in this room had passed laws so that they would not be convicted when they lost power. Here, the National Assembly has passed laws that Miskovic and all his escapeous comrades do not go to prison when the DS loses power. You know that well. You know that very well. Here, I'll mention the Foreign Exchange Act, here. (The Faith of Radeta: Did you change that law afterwards? ) The law was changed after, but for nothing, were already provisions in the law that amnested all their marifetteluks and speculations both with a dinar course and with the euro. So Serbia is co-operating with all who want to co-operate with Serbia, all who want to invest in Serbia are welcome. Don't make them. Anyone who employs one worker has done a good job for Serbia, for one family, and then for Serbia and gives greater hope for the survival of our people in these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63325	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Let's keep working. (Alexander Seselj: Rules of Procedure. () Almost, we've gone completely away, you've started to abuse both you and your colleague, Arsic, I have to cut in one place, it's not worth it. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. You have to understand me, with all due respect, really. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63326	Strange things happen. This fourth row, the third one that was, was a mess. Mr. Marinkovic, ever since he stepped in the front row to turn the cake, man won't hear from anyone else but the advances. This is really amazing. Today you interrupt the debate by not allowing Mr. Seselj to speak up. It was true, I don't know which replica, and now you're not letting Alexander Seselj speak in the Rules of Procedure. Do you have anything against the Seselj family? What's this about? Really amazing, really amazing. Obviously this is a serious problem. So why do I say that very strange things happen and that some of the statements here are confusing? We first heard here comments that the insult to the dignity of the National Assembly is all that the Wolf does, everything the advances do. Then we heard that the fact that Wolf was meeting with Mr. Putin was just some mere number is irrelevant. Indeed, they fear such comments in the National Assembly when they are heard by representatives of the government. Since she was speaking here from a colleague who talked about how priority is their only good life of citizens, if everything was dedicated to the people and so on, so here I would remind her, since she's from Kursumliska Banja, it wouldn't be bad for her to tell us a little bit what's going on about the privatisation of Kursumliska Banja? In what kind of relation Rodoljub Vulić, president of the municipality, and Radovan Rancic, SNS president and director of the AD "Planinka", who owns Prolom Banja, Lukovske Banja, Djavolje varoši, and now Kursumlijska Banje for quite, as well, a miserable sum, a spa with, I don't know how many square kilometers of surfaces and how many tens of thousands of surfaces of objects he bought for less than a million euros. The previous offer was a million and 800 euros. Of course, it was all set up to eventually get into the hands of the Master of Bullets. That man is the boss of the bullet. Raicevic, yes, Philippe, you're right. Do you know what else is going on in Kursumlia? It's just that my colleague gave me the idea to remind the public a little, because we know what's going on there, as we know what's going on all over Serbia. There, for example, fake medical director's checks, pays the RFZO. Why fake? Because the seal of that doctor, the director, is being used while she's on vacation, at sea in Greece. This director, let's say she's moving her furniture to a sanity vehicle, and the people, the people of Kursumlia, who are suffering from cancer, pay seriously the six thousand dinars of a sanity vehicle to transport them to Nis to receive chemo or already some examination, what they need to do. There was, say, a new incident, we were talking here about a school that Raicevic also bought, believe it or not, the minister of education said he would check it out, test it, but he didn't do anything, and now he's the director of the school, Radica Jovic, who's been fired. Imagine this, the president of the municipality, writes a letter to the teacher's council, we have this letter here, says they are not taking any action on proposals for the new principal of the elementary school "Miloje Zakic", since the previous director, Radica Jovic, objected to the education inspector's report, so there is a possibility that its resolution might not be final. So, this is just part of the pearl from one of the municipalities and when you listen to someone who represents the citizens of that community, then really the man doesn't like what they hear, not to say that we listen to different lies because you're saying what you think you need to hear here and what it would be nice to hear the citizens, but the citizens know and what their real condition is in life. We have submitted this amendment because you wrote very ungrably, tried to amend Article 2, Article 4, where the dual-purpose goods are mentioned in the list, and then in the new attitude you add, you are talking about the list one, two and three. So you didn't even formally agree this new position with this first position of the bill. But what's the big deal here? You're here to boast that, under this law, how agriculture will develop, how the industry will be restored, but you won't tell me one sad truth. Under the law, among other things, Serbia, and many parts of Serbia, will become a dump of hazardous waste. This is already done in some municipalities and you know it well, in Lapovo, for example, and in some municipalities, and this law will allow this control and allow such terrible things to happen in our beautiful Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63327	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has an Ana Charapic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63328	Thank you, Chairman. When it comes to Kursumlijska Banja, since I come from the municipality of Kursumlija, Kursumlijska Banja, i.e. the hotel Žubor, not Banje, but the hotel Žubor in Kursumlijska Banja, in the spa, did not shut down the SNS, but the previous government. We are proud that the company AD “Planinka” from Kursumlia, otherwise it is a company that successfully operates Lukovska and Prolom Banja and we are happy that it is our domestic company, and all day long we talk about whether they are good foreign or domestic investors, so our domestic company has decided to buy the Hotel Žubor in Kursumlijska Banja. Well, it's now questionable whether a hotel was sold below the price or not, because it really takes a lot to invest in the reconstruction of the hotel itself to put the hotel into operation, because it's been 13 years, so construction works have to be done, to get new equipment, rolling stock, etc. What matters to the citizens of Kurzumlia is that over 100 people will work at the Kursumlij spa. That's a huge number for Kurzumlia. It is, in fact, like in Belgrade to hire, or create 10,000 new jobs, so much for Kursumli 100 people. As for Lukovska Banja, a hotel is being built in which more than 50 people will work, we are really proud of how "Planinka" operates, and that the Director-General is doing "Mountains", as well as the chairman of the SNS Municipal Committee in Kursumlia, no one can influence anyone's political commitment and everyone chooses what they think is good, and wants to make a contribution, especially when it comes to the chairman of the Municipal Committee in Kursumlia. So he helps some citizens, and this "Mountain" also invests cultural and historical monuments in sports events in Kursumlia, not only Kursumliska, Lukovska and Prolom Banja. So, when it comes to the matter, you mentioned in the previous discussion the Director of the Health House in Kursumlia and you talked about the seal, the competent institutions, whether there was a violation of the law or not. I honestly believe that it is not, since the House of Health in Kursumlia is one of the best health homes in all of Serbia, and when it comes to schools in Spain, it is not owned by "Mountain", there is a copy of the immovableity that says that the school in Spain is owned by the elementary school "Miloje Zakic". Otherwise, the contract was concluded in 1987, when Radovan Raicevic was not even the CEO of the "Planinke" a.d., but Mr. Rakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63329	Thank you, Mrs. Charp. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63330	The sale of Kurchumliska Banja is absolutely illegal and it is freely said that this sale is actually a more criminal act. Here's why. The bullet bath belonged to the PIO Fund. It was tried not only with Kursumlijska Banja, but also with other spas, but also with Rasim Ljajic began to muddle with those spas, so you remember that we used to grind the law here and we were saying that the law was being changed just to do something that was planned for them with these spas and then it was for intervention, whether people from the PIO Fund or pensioners of some individuals, mostly the Constitutional Court annulled the decision and the PIO Fund had to participate in the sale of Kursumliska Banja and some other spas. And what happened? How did the decision to sell Kursumliska Banja come to pass? Mrs. Čaapić, dear colleague, you may not know it, but here to inform you at the phone session, this spa was sold, and at that session, the fact that Arsic whispers is not true, he is not familiar, at that phone session was voted by a member of the PIO Fund, and it is a serious conflict of interest and it is a serious disturbance and it is actually talking about the sale of this Kursumlij Banje criminal act. You can talk as much as you like, say it earlier -- you're proud that the domestic company bought this spa, you were proud of foreign companies in the previous report, so let's decide who you're more proud of. But, here, just maybe, you can answer us, let Arsic listen so she can answer the question of Serbian citizens are very interested, perhaps Mrs. Čaapic knows how to tell us - which is why this Raicevic, whom he is roving into the stars, has been beaten. Does this have anything to do with the sale of the Kurzumli Banje? Does this have anything to do with the violent purchase of land around Kursumliska Banja? Come on, tell me, you may know more information than I do, but this is probably enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63331	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Anna Charapic has the right to replicate. I'm sorry, Ana, the advantage is Natasa Jovanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63332	Do you know which member I'm answering for? I'm reporting for article 107 because Mr. Marinkovic, I have to speak to you, you are obliged to protect the dignity of the Assembly, you are from a party whose minister is the Minister of Tourism, among other things, the President is still, I hear that you might replace him, if you don't go to this other side. You have support as far as we're concerned, for your further political engagement. It is very important that we tell Serbian citizens Kursumlia, Kursumliska Banja and those corrections, Mrs. Čaapic, not this Kursumliska Banja, but Hotel Žubor. Well, it can be called a flower tan, it's a crime. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, we pointed it out here, several times we spoke when it was the Tourism Act, carried out an assessment of the value of the hotel's capital, as you want to sell it in Kursumlij Banja. The estimate was made at 2.4m euros. As it occurred to you, then, that for a million euros less to sell to this consortium, or to a private company, that's what someone wants. Please, it's pure crime. Instead of making a promise to Rasim Ljajic and all of you, you have done the necessary reconstruction, and you have raised the value of this spa, or this hotel, that you, as the Serbian Government, have invested the necessary funds, and instead of 2.4, to make it five million euros, you are selling one real resource, one treasure in such a place, with such qualities, dating from who knows how many centuries ago for poor millions and 400 and some euros. It's really amazing. Then now we have to say, it's great, it's sold something below the estimated value. That would be the same, Mr. Marinkovic, I don't know which car you have or who here, and now someone comes to you and says, you know the market value of that or anything you own. There are appraisals, there are serious houses in Serbia that deal with it, someone specializes in real estate, someone else for this, and now someone to come and tell you, e Marinkovic is worth nothing to you but a three-bit 500 euros. How would you feel, please? So someone takes something away from you, and you say it's great, it's great. Let it go, they'll invest ten million and some stories, you gentlemen of the SNS simply welcomed the mandate, the end of this term without doing what was necessary without solving the issue and the revitalization, first of all, to increase the value, then only then do those spas for sale. It's a question of how and under what conditions, not like it was done with Kursumlij Banja.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63333	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) Mr Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63334	Article 107. My colleague Marinkovic, not only are the appraisal houses that determine the value of some property... Natasha Sp. It's you. Here, now they're getting, they know everything, they understand everything. It determines the market. You can appreciate some property as much as you want, if no one buys it for you, and the law says the starting price is 50% of the estimated value. Well, what's been broken in there? Now we can talk about whether the state invested or not. I ask, how many of these times does the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have donations to the PIO Fund? Well, to buy them all the spas we touch like the Republic, not just in one year, not 10 years back, just in one year. If you're saying we need to revitalise, that it should remain in the property that it should remain in, as you claim, so what came into the situation to be revitalised if they managed this property in terms of a good businessman? It just proves everything I said. The state cannot be such an employer who participates in the market, it seems to be a problem that it cannot be overcome anymore. So the value of the property, we can talk about, they give the appraisers, but the market determines. You can appreciate your car costing 20,000 euros. If the last customer says it costs 10,000, I don't even give you the euro anymore, it's worth 20,000 euros, it's the law of the market, the law of the offer, the law of demand, simply, today is the time, so live. But unlike the former regimes whose initial price was 20% of the book value, and the book value was only 10% of the market value, what did they all sell? They were giving away. If he doesn't tell me that RTB Bor was donated, I can't agree with that. Today, if someone tells me that Sartid was donated before 2016, I can't agree. If someone tells me that we gave a concession to Nicola Tesla Airport for a gift, I can't agree with that either. These are good projects, good for the state, good for the population, but you have to understand that the money man is expecting some profit. Well, it's just laws. Who's gonna give you the money, I'd just like to see who's gonna give us the money and never give it back. Come on, find him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63335	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Veloljub Arsic: No. ) Both Mrs Jovanovic and Veroljub Arsic both abused the Rules of Procedure, you responded and replicated each other. I have two options to take this time away from each and every other MP's group or to move on. I choose to move on. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63336	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Act amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act. Article 2 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 4 of the existing law by adding a new position 3 after Article 2. The Serbian Radical Party proposes this amendment to amend Article 1 which would now read - "the dual-purpose slave established by the list is exported or imported on the basis of a licence". The Serbian Radical Party believes the amendment is more accurate. As with most laws, adopted by the National Assembly, and here, according to the proposings, there are the reasons for adoption, number one -- that EU experts stressed that it is important to bring this area in line with the provisions of binding European legislation 428/2009. and that EU experts participated in the drafting of the previous law, whose changes are being made today, which at that time drew attention to the regulation of European legislation, and that such an international practice to control the export of dual-use goods, as well as the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance services, so that imports of these goods are not controlled. Number two - that foreign investors, who invested in production capacities in this way, are destimulated because they are granted export licences from EU Member States, for example, for imports of certain machinery or parts necessary for the production of so-called production. The dual-use goods must be exposed to additional costs and wait for the authorisations of the competent Serbian authorities for the import of these goods. In this debate, the SRS parliamentary group advises officials in the Republic of Serbia that the interests of Serbian citizens must be first, not the interest of the EU and foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63337	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. According to this amendment, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic reported. Here you are, colleague Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63338	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad this debate has gained some width. We have talked about many things, and we have discussed many things that are important to our country and to our citizens. We talked about the economy, and the market, the competitiveness, agreeing with the EU, and now whoever agrees, who disagrees, everyone has the right to their own opinion, at least I think so. You're going to let me stick to the framework of the bill that's before us in the debate in particular, but maybe to some extent even get out of those frames for a moment to make my contribution to this debate. As we talk about exporting and importing dual-use goods, I'd like to say one more thing about this story that's current in our country, and it's about a false alarmer. Yesterday there was this protest in Valjev when they re-painted the stickers, only now in the factory building. I don't know why these people are more allowed to put stickers on traffic signs, on factory buildings, on courthouse buildings, and then repaint buildings and in a similar way to destroy public goods. Now that it becomes a rule to protest in front of other people's houses, in front of housing buildings where people live, I find it very problematic. Yesterday they gathered outside the house of that false alarmer, to give him support, but also to invite the people to rebel, to destroy the state. They say, "Be like that false alarmer." The man was charged with a felony, which is why he was arrested. He's no alarmer. That pressure, that intimidation, that calling constantly on chaos and destruction became a rule and actually something on which they based their political action. In fact, they'll come in front of Vesic's building to intimidate him. They'll come in front of the university to put pressure on the professors. They're going to threaten the autonomy of the university. They'll break into RTS to harass people there. I don't think any of this is normal behavior that this country deserves and that the citizens of Serbia deserve. Practically, the question arises – is there anything sacred to them if we consider the tweet that Bojan Pajtic called. I don't know if he joined the Alliance for Serbia, or if he didn't join. If he has not joined, let him join the Alliance for Serbia as soon as possible, since they are obviously the same. He wrote in his tweet a very ugly thing. He says Nela Kuburovic is in a different condition. There, and all the time you're attacking her that she doesn't know anything. Nela Kuburovic is the justice minister, she goes to her job, she works, she prepares the laws, she makes statements, she represents the justice ministry in the best possible way. What's Paytich doing? It's not clear to me, except that it spreads proscration on social networks and that it's probably spending money that's in a suspicious way expired. What we're talking about, as far as a false alarmer is concerned, I don't think it's meaningless. On the contrary, in one part, most of it refers to the security of our military industry, the security of our country. Why is this Obradovic a false alarmer? Because he didn't contact the competent authority because he didn't report to an authorized person at the factory. Instead, he's been telling foreign journalists the secrets of our country and who knows how much damage he's done. I, for one, can't imagine the damage that can be done by such actions. Serbian citizens have the right to know what this is really about. The point is that the Alliance for Serbia is aimed at destroying our dedicated industry, destroying our army, jeopardising the security of the Republic of Serbia and jeopardising the possibility of exporting weapons and military equipment, only because we managed to recover the dedicated industry, only because we managed to restore Krusik to a better business, or much better than it was in the time of DS authorities, only because we are trying to make our dedicated industry a competitor on the market again, and this has been a very great effort. So it's not that the false alarmer happened by accident, Gilas and his crew saw a chance to tear down Alexander Vukic and the SNS and this authority, not caring that they might be destroying Serbia and giving away some state secrets. They've been acting like this before, only the difference is that they've destroyed Serbia at the time to stay in power, and now they're tearing Serbia down to come back to power, so they can do whatever they want and whatever they want. And they remember the privatisation of Krusika, which took place after 2000 and who and how the factory got hungry. That factory was exporting equipment and some military parts, they brought it down to the level of destruction, as they brought down all the other factories that were closed down, and people were out of work. Therefore, all of these are the things that I believe in Parliament, which we in parliament can talk about and exchange our opinions, but we will all agree that the policy that involves destroying our country's security is not the policy that the citizens of Serbia and Serbia deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63339	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Peric answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, we still have a good chance, here we are, looking forward to the statement by the leader of the National Front, Mrs Marin Le Pen, who says - I will annul Kosovo's recognition, it is a sacred Serbian and Christian country. Don't think it's an illusion now. Many of you here, many Serbian citizens, could not imagine that the radical, Aleksandar Vukic, would be president of Serbia, so it happened. So this is already good news for us. There's something else I have to comment on. Someone said sometimes our workers went to Germany, and now we have a reverse situation. Well, we don't have the opposite situation. Our workers when they went there they were the most common workforce and we have to realize that the ones whose personal degree of education was perhaps at the level of the third degree of some occupations, very often those with primary school. But when they were leaving, except for the job, they got nothing else. Here when national companies come from Germany, or what other countries, however, get a lot. We're not saying that we shouldn't bother to have them come here, but those conditions that they certainly have should be offered to our citizens rather than to their situation. What's going on here and what's serious, Mr. Minister? You might be able to give a little bit of an initial cap here because we've passed the law, your Ministry has been a proposing, or Government Proposer, and you've explained here, about seasonal labour engagement, and we have, when it comes to exports, a big problem with agricultural exports. When does the sun come in for the Serbian export-export business? Well, it takes place in 2008, April 29th, when the SAA was signed to the European Union, as well as this temporary contract. That's when the state of Serbia doubled its commitment. What were her obligations? Its obligations were to start by harmonising its rules with EU regulations, on the one hand, and on the other hand to open its doors, widely to open them, to EU products. What did we get in return? Well, our products can appear on their market. Imagine all this happening at a time when we have signed an agreement since 2000 with the Russian Federation on free imports of goods. We were today Europe's most privileged nation when it came to exporting and importing goods with the Russian Federation. We have a similar situation or almost identical with Belarus. Some, nine years later, we now have a situation and very often colleagues when they say it is, and they provide parallel data, exporting our goods to EU Member States may be a dozen times larger than it is to the Russian Federation. Well, that's the problem. What did we do? What did the Serbian Chamber of Commerce do to change the situation, to improve the situation? I don't think she's done anything. Come on, what she hasn't done so far, we Serbian radicals don't even see any serious initiative to change that. We had a decline in 2018 by 8.7% in the export of goods to the Russian Federation. Are you planning on doing something to change that? We have to take advantage of this situation. You know something would have had this privileged status when it comes to exports to the Russian Federation is that there are over 50% of our market origins in the substance. Are we in a position to throw? I personally think we are. Do we have to do this? We must do this because you see what EU member states are doing to us, or the EU as a supersede. Here you see today saying that we can be partners with them. There are no more promises we received in 2008 when we sign this Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we will become an equal member, but we are told a colorful lie is thrown that we can become their partner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63341	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Minister Zoran Djordjevic and Veroljub Arsic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63342	Thank you. I just have to say it briefly. First of all, I don't agree with you that our agriculture started in 2008. It started in 2000 after the DOS came to power and was systematically destroyed by 2012. Not just agriculture in certain segments, but agriculture in the globally, from agrarians, cattle stock and everything else. Not to count here, and we were talking about that land being leased that wasn't processed at all, that's what the subsidies were received for, so later when we tried to give that land, the tenants had to treat that land. Now I'm going to be banal, because I really don't understand agriculture, what they've explained to me is that now they have to plant certain varieties that don't make any contribution to return that land and that quality, so that they can plant and that we have to have income. It's all the damage they've done and they can't go back so easily and just jump over. It takes time for us to succeed both as a government and as a country to start our agriculture, but that's what our citizens deserve to know, to know that someone systematically destroyed agriculture, that someone systematically looked to destroy everything that was related to agriculture with some reason. Is it because they had some desire for an import lobby, the introduction of an import lobby or for us to depend on some other countries or other interests, that I really don't want to get into it, and that really should be someone to deal with it. What's a fact and what you said is that they're facts and that they say that our agriculture has been systematically destroyed. You asked how we could handle the Russian Federation? Of course, when you're working with someone, she must have some amplitude. I don't think she's in some alarming zone and we don't need to worry that last year is over with a little lower export than she was, but certainly what was signed and what our Prime Minister signed with the Euro-Asian Union and the opening of a big market will certainly contribute to agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63343	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63344	Nothing is worth it to any of your colleagues here that we have signed an agreement with the Eurasian Union, nothing is worth it to them until all other agreements with any Western country are annulled, that agreement is worth nothing. Alexander Seselj: What are you lying about, Arsic? Here. Because we're stupid, we don't understand anything? Here. I didn't say that. What you said... But how do you twist words and my words? I said our residents in the past went to temporary work in Germany. It was said, a little while in the discussion – they were schoolless, second, third-degree. Exactly, but when? In the 1960s and 1970s. Who's been leaving us since 2000? The most educated and workable citizens. Now that's funny. You see how they turn things around now. Don't play with words, don't twist the facts. Today, two times fewer go to Western European countries than they did in 2012. Our goal is not to leave at all. And if you do not want to bring investors from both the east and the west and from the south and the north, you will be left empty in Serbia. Once it's in your head, you can accept responsibility for running the state. As long as you keep blind and one story, we are against someone and something, there will never be any of you statesmen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63345	Thank you. The word is Sreto Peric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63346	Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't argue with Mr. Arsic, he's Mircic's patient. I don't remember when he was talking when they were leaving. My colleague Charapic talked about it. I've just made a brief review of it. Mr. Minister, you said it well, I agree with you. Zero or initial time, according to DOS officials, began all in 2000. You're absolutely right. There are Serbian radicals and Serbian citizens who see that since then he has gone absolutely sunflowers. I just said that, by signing this agreement in 2008, such as it is, it has further brought problems not only to Serbian agriculture, but to the real sector in general and all economic activities that have pleaded to any exports, and even those producers who planned to place their products on the Serbian market, because of the favourable conditions for imports of products from EU countries, never in life have any of the Serbian radicals said that an agreement with any country should be broken, especially if it is an affirmation, export, import or movement of the real sector or any other business activity. Individually, we have always said -- with every country that respects Serbia as such, as a free country, should be co-operated. It doesn't matter, we don't propose that these individual agreements be abolished, but the SAA, so on an annual basis, it caused direct damages of 500m euros. It's a direct damage. As you ministers have done, in agricultural production, here is Mrs Boskovic, so she knows that there are some agricultural cultures whose length of cultivation is at the annual level, but she prepares some other results for a few years. The production of an industrial plant, tobacco, was destroyed in the Podinj area, and even the Colubarian part, when one year from the tax administration, a man who had previously appeared to me, in the service of security, like those after the Second World War in coats, seized goods, locked down the factory. If someone made a mistake there, they should have been processed. We do not defend such ones, if there were mistakes, but he destroyed one agricultural production, not only that year where it was on the lager 3,000 tonnes of tobacco, but long-time people have lost trust and now, to get back to that level that we had ten years ago, and there is a huge investment of living work and that may be perspective, although subsidies are not what they used to be, but now that we don't talk about it, it's something that leaves a long-term consequence. That's exactly the deal. We understand that there are amplitudes sometimes, but we, the state, the government, have to analyze why it happened. Russian ambassadors complained on several occasions that when it comes to business entities from the Russian Federation and other EU countries, they do not have equal treatment. True, it needs to be real, it's been much less since 2012. It happened as a rule until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63347	Thank you. The right to reply, Mr Veroljub Arsic, so Minister Djordjevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63348	I'm sorry, I didn't hear, Chairman, whose patient am I?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63349	I didn't hear, honestly, it wasn't clear. If that's what Mr. Peric said, then it really doesn't make sense. If that's what he said, I really didn't expect it from you. It's really not right. Excuse me, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63350	We usually resort to insults when we have no arguments. What else to answer? I don't know what's going on here. Here, it stands for agricultural production. I don't mind, they just destroyed it. And do you know how easily you destroy agricultural production? When you destroy the meat processing industry. Now find someone, here, a public call for you who know everything, find someone who will come to Serbia. Here, find it from the Russian Federation, find it wherever you want, from any point of the globe. Don't transfer to us what the former regime was doing until 2012. Make a fence. Companies, investors from the Russian Federation are welcome as well as from any other country. Don't transfer that SNS again. Their ambassadors, since the SNS came to power, have not complained about treatment in Serbia. No one complains about treatment in Serbia anymore. They are all fully equal, and domestic when they come from any side of the world, if they want to work, according to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and no one forbids them to pursue their economic interest. If you're going to insult me, you can go free, I don't mind. I don't mind. So what bothers you, he didn't say you were a doctor's patient? Here, and now they're trying. It just shows me that you have no arguments, no ideologies and no strength, no knowledge of what to offer Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63351	Thank you. You, colleague Peric, have been accepted by the government and by the board. I didn't hear what you said, since my colleague Arsic repeated it, I don't think it really makes any sense. It's not okay, it's not college. The only thing I can do is stand up for my colleague and colleague. I'm setting a five-minute break, and I'm warning, I'm not going to let, just not let Veroljub Arsic get insulted that way. Article 112, five minutes break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I hope we relaxed the atmosphere a little bit. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63353	First of all, I don't understand your role, Mr. Marinkovic. Why do you interfere with this debate at a very good level of respect? Happy Peric and Arsic have known each other for many years. You can't make an argument that Arsic is your lawyer. He's a coalition partner, but it's as variable with him as it is with you. Today, tomorrow, ask him, he will be with us sooner, because it was seen in “Spens” as his heart played out. What's this all about? This is about a very important thing. Now, Mr. Nikcevic explained to me that when the permit for these products is extended multi-purpose, it is automation. Why am I saying this and why am I pointing out this information and who gave me this information? Because we have submitted an amendment that this equipment can be, that a permit is given for a period of time as long as that equipment works while it works. However, it is now quite clear, it has been established to be for a year, with something special in Serbia, which is to extend the time limit by automatedity if the work or function of the goods is not completed. So when the equipment is imported, there's only pro form to apply and the ministry is extending it, which is very important, very important. There's a lot of equipment that's multi-purpose, that can be used in a civilian and can be used for military purposes. We, radicals, do not understand at all why this story, which is very important, is very important because of the imports of this equipment, because of the imports of everything that is of strategic importance to Serbia, why does Krasik involve Valjevo in the first place? I understand that Gilas' father is involved, so that's... (Honey Stojkovic: Involves? It's not a test to interfere. That's the wrong expression. Do you know what "involves" is? Excuse me, colleague, are you discussing yourself with yourself or someone? Secondly, there is no reason to put into the context of the debate on this bill or these amendments to put something that is currently politically current. It'll pass very quickly, in a very short time. You will see, in a few days or ten days, no one will remember whose father is involved in the affair, whether it is Gilasov or from Nebojsa Stefanovic. Nobody wants to know. It doesn't matter. It is important here that this automation is achieved when it comes to the extension or extension of the authorisation to use such equipment as is needed not only for civil purposes but also for military purposes. And that's enough for us, Serbian radicals, because we insisted that this amendment be a longer period, or a deadline when it's in use and while it's doing a certain job. Thanks to this information, we welcome the fact that it's been reduced to some formal level. And about spelling and language, fellow Members, don't get involved like that and give instructions and tell you what's right and what's wrong. You know, there's something that's correct. We never objected to you when you were talking to yourself, maybe preparing a speech, maybe talking on your cell phone, but what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63354	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63355	Let's finish what we started a little while ago, and it's about the Kurzumli spa. A few messages came in the meantime, so people don't get angry. First of all, let's clear up how it came to buy the Kursumlij Banje just as much as Raicevic and how at two and a half million prices in the third attempt there are about a million and 400 thousand euros. By involving the most direct Rasim Ljajic in this whole story. In fact, the Kurzumliska spa via Raicevic was sold to one Shiptar from Podujev, who is ultra-rich, who has planes there, which has an airport, but of course it is not the time to reveal it. How did it come to be that no one else wanted to buy a spa? They were interested buyers of both the Russians and the Israelis and the Turks, but here's why they didn't buy at the end - because they were told they could only buy objects, because water is a state resource and it's not controversial. But they're not told that the state will give them permission to exploit the water and then people who would give that money or any money to buy a house or three houses at the Kursumli bath. You know who Raicevic is? Here, to remind the citizens, he is, in addition to being the director of this "Mountain" and all the living, he is the boss of Kursumli, and the Break of the Bath and the Lukovska Bane and the Devil's baroci and all the schools and the home of health, everything, everything. So, he's the boss of the Kurzumli spa. Otherwise, it's famous for, remember, when Toma Nikolic strike hunger and thirst from 12 to noon, well, then he brought him a water breakdown to drink a sip. Now, this Raicevic has been given the right to exploit water and it has been going on for more than 20 years. And he gets a new permit every five years, as provided for by the law, and his license is extended. And that was supposed to go in a package to whoever bought the Kursumliska spa, so now he's got it. What I'm saying right now, which is 20 years old, refers to the break-in of the spa. He's a liter, except he's packing state water, net for 11 dinars. It packs 60 million liters annually, and this is six million euros just for packing water from the state resource. That's his annual earnings. But you play with baths, you tell one story, you do another. Previously, I repeat, the spas have been hijacked by the PIO Fund... Mr. Minister, how come they're not when they are? ... They kidnap the PIO fund and here's what happens at the Vronjska Bane. In Vranjska spa, for example, on the old Snowman, at the spring of Banjska water, Zoran Babic makes a villa. At the spring of Ban water! They baptize themselves with both the left and the right whoever passes there. So, you're not even close to what you're trying to introduce yourself. And that's known, all people know in the field how you work, how you work. Don't just tell us how many votes you get again. It's another topic, and I hope there's a chance that we can talk about it once and for all. Don't complain too much about those who attack. You remember how you cried over this rector Ivanko Popovic, so she turned the turkey upside down, so she stabbed you in the back, and now with this Bajag, I simply had to remind you that he sang in the Tadic campaign – which nobody can do. He'll manage easily. You don't have to defend him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63356	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63357	I have to react, given that there was a PIO fund, which is kind of indirect in the ministry's jurisdiction, and I have to tell you... Mrs. Radeta, if I may only answer your question. So, if you only want the real truth, as far as the spa is concerned, the facts are: the PIO Fund has some 26 bathrooms that in most cases or large majority of them are not functional at all or are in such a bad state that it is simply, when it comes to the PIO Fund, impossible for those from the funds at its disposal to be renovated. What does that mean? This means that 26 baths, 26 seats in Serbia are somehow dead, that Serbia that has a high capacity, when it comes to spas, simply does not use all its resources and Banish tourism is simply at a very low level. What's the idea of a state? The idea of the state is that, not as you said, it kidnaps the PIO Fund, but to tax the tax inspection in accordance with the value of the spa, the state pays off the PIO Fund value of those spas, and then the spas to offer, or to privatise, or to enter a public-private partnership with whoever would like to invest in these spas. We think that besides our citizens, our spas are interested and some foreign investors from the Russian Federation, from Western Europe, even exist from the far east, who want to invest in our spas, and that they have multiple benefits. Not only will it put into place, but it will provide the possibility for young people to be employed, to stay in the place, to develop tourism, catering, hoteling, to develop some other activities that are related to the spa. In this way we will not only keep people living in these places, but we will also start economy and tourism in those places. I have to say, no one's taken any bathrooms. When it comes to the Kursumlian spa besides all the problems we've had with both restitution and other things, we've conducted a tender that's been completely public. I've got the results of that tender, and I need to tell you that the gentleman who won or who won that tender has done it in accordance with the law. Banja is estimated at the value of the tax inspection. The Republic Property Directorate was the one who was selling the spa. We will try to put all other spas in Serbia into operation. I think it's the interest of all of us. Instead of going to Banjski treatment in Slovenia or Hungary and how beautiful spas there are in our country. I think putting into office these spas will be just a profit for our country and a benefit for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63358	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Ana Čaapić answered for the replica at the presentation of the Verica Radeta and then Verica Radeta. I need to give my colleague a chance to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63359	I thank the chairman. We heard from the minister that the hotel "Zubor" in Kursumlijska Banja was bought under the law. So the legal procedure is respected. When it comes to the AD "Mountain" I want only a few data to be provided, as much as the state and local self-government benefit from the AD "Mountain". To be clear, I'm not the PR manager of the "Mountains", I want to be fenced from it. Simply, the municipality of Kursumli and my fellow citizens are proud that a successful company is operating on my territory. Why did the bullet bath have the advantage of buying... In fact, she had no advantage, but Kursumliska Banja has been successfully running both Prolom and Lukovska Banja for many years. It keeps the people of that area from staying in their hearths. As far as you're concerned, you mentioned, the exploitation of the water of the state actually benefits from the exploitation of water. The exploitation business is being paid at an annual level by about 100 million dinars on the basis of compensation for the use of natural resources. When it comes to the number of employees in the AD "Planinka", half a billion dinars are paid on the basis of taxes and contributions in Lukovska Banja, which in hotels in Prolom Banja. It is important that all our small producers located in the territory of the municipality of Kursumli, whether agricultural producers, the entire agricultural production is bought by AD “Planinka” and that food is used for storage in the restaurant facilities of AD “Planinka”. So we have multiple benefits from the AD "Mountain". I repeat once again that my fellow citizens are proud of how one company, and it's domestic, can successfully operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63360	Thank you, colleague Charapic. The right to a replica of Vjerica Radet to present Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63361	Only two sentences from the SRS programme first. Point 51, economic programmes – Market economy, I can't read all of it, but the initial assumption of the development of society in the SRS programme is the concept of market economy. The market economy that has private property for the baseline should achieve the following objectives, I will only read one of them, independence and independence from political power centres, their influence and possible pressures. Minister, this is the answer to your question. I am not questioning at all that you were following this contest, that only this Mr. Raicevic, who bought the Kursumlijska banja, appeared, but you did not answer, nor Col. Čaapić – how it is possible that Raičević would get the right to exploit the water at Kursumlijska Banja, which in the ad, in the tender for sale did not write, but wrote only that the facilities were sold, which is a dramatic difference, a dramatic difference whether someone would buy only objects or receive the right, or permission to exploit Banska Voda. We, spritz radicals, were never against privatization or spas, not at all. We have also suggested in the public long ago, Zoran Krasic was most serious about the topic and here in the National Assembly he talked about, that all spas in Serbia should be revitalised, that our spas are goods that are untapped, and where they are used, unfortunately very often being abused. The law on spas was to be passed, the new law of course, so that through this law we would predict the revitalisation of spas and certain medical services, not just the services of a type of bathing water etc. You know that people from abroad, for example. They come to our dentists to work their teeth completely, etc. Why couldn't we have developed that in the spas and that people stay there for 21 or a month instead of ten days and be all right? They're much cheaper, people from abroad, and that's what we're offering? No, it's only important for you to meet these local sheriffs so that he can later fund campaigns, etc., and what the consequences of that will only be seen. I told you, in Vrnjak spa at the source Zoran Babic makes a villa, and seven acres in the middle of the park, can you imagine, Minister, it's been sold to a private, the beautiful, beautiful well-being park. You need to get into the essence. It may all look so formally nice, but what you heard today, Minister, you don't have to answer anything, I mean, if you want to answer, but check all this out, so when you get here next time, tell us what we lied about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63362	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Zoran Djordjevic, minister. (Dragana Kostic: Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragana Kostic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63363	So there's no confusion. They don't sell water in bathrooms. They're publicly good and they can just... (President: Which member of the colleague? ) Article 107. I'm saying this because the previous speaker said that the water was sold along with the facilities, hotel facilities at the Kursumlij spa. Anyone who buys an RH centre pays compensation for the use of these waters, medicinal waters, and a decision on compensation is made by local self-government – how much will that compensation per litre and plus pay to the Ministry of Energy and Mining and the Ministry of Agriculture for the use of these waters.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63364	Thank you, colleague Kostic. You could have picked up the amendment, no problem. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The nun Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63365	It's really very short. I wouldn't rephrase it, but it's for the public. I'm not stupid to say someone bought the source. I didn't say that, I said how did Raicevic get to the Kursumliska spa, how the other bidders were potentially deceived because they weren't told they were going to get permission, all these permits that the colleague said would get the opportunity to get those permits. I said that illegally, check out, Zoran Babic at the source, the old source of "Snježnik" builds the facility. That's what I said. I didn't say someone gave him permission. I didn't say no one sold water. Of course not, and we hope that such a law will never be passed that natural resources can become private, that kind of resource.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63366	Thank you. The word has Zoran Djordjevic, minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63367	I understand, Mrs. Radeta, but when it comes to the tender and when it comes to a public call, who wants to compete, etc., never in any public call, not now in the tender, nor will they be mentioned in these subsequent spas. Don't say that those who wanted to buy the spas didn't inform themselves that we couldn't write in the tender – we sell or don't sell water, you have, or you don't have, but the law is known by whom and what conditions someone who has and who works in the spa has the right to exploit the water and under what conditions. So that neither this gentleman is guaranteed nor now guarantees that he will get that water, but there is a law that says what he has to do, as well as how he should apply and how and in what way, possibly, he can come to that. Whether he gets it or not, I'm telling you right now, no one guarantees it unless he meets the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63368	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63369	Mr Marinkovic, as the end draws near, so you too concentrate on the presidency and then you are obliged to defend the dignity of the Assembly. We have the old Banis Act, and you're supposed to get involved now and say, you can't lecture here right now, but you need to be informed. It is precisely the problem that this assembly assembly, like the previous ones, has not passed a new law on spas, so it will now be bid whether or not to get permission. Come on, please, the first consensus gives him municipal authority in Kursumlia, and he won't give him consent. Isn't that right, Minister? There are some people out there who don't like him and who he doesn't have any influence on, and then there's the next step, to apply to the government authorities. Of course he's going to get that consent, but you didn't come to power, I'm not talking to you specifically now, but SNS and this government with a story – we're going to go on a public offer, so now, and if there's less than an estimate of the government's property management. No, you said: "We will bring a new law, so because of all the previous abuses, we will limit what is good in the spa, to qualify, as Col. Verica said earlier, that it is not only that water as a resource, or thermal and healing springs, but everything else that should be restricted as a spa resort." We do not have a law that has defined in the new circumstances for every spa in Serbia – Vrnjačka, Sokobanj, all other spas, Koviljac, exactly what a Banja spa is. They exist under some earlier laws, and now we have both unplanned and diverse construction and abuse of these resources. Therefore, you should have passed the law on spas, then entered this process that you correctly claim to raise the standard of living in these local self-governments and that other people would work and that foreign tourists would come, but first of all, you should have done this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63370	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to plead my injury to dignity. (No) Thank you. We're moving on. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63371	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we have already noted, so the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which makes SNS as the majority party in that government, continues that political practice of the Democratic Party, with the process of harmonisation, i.e. The adoption of European laws in the Serbian Parliament, without any review, and given that these are legal acts that are not suitable for our society and our country, because they are not even written for us, it is obvious that they produce negative consequences on our society and do not bring us nearer to the EU. What we could hear from the SNS in the campaign, before they came to power, was a review of the main political decisions of the DS and that it would already cross with that practice, which was during the DS. We saw it completely the other way around after 2012. No one dared say anything or to reconsider or even raise the question of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is one of the root causes of our economic situation today. Only one piece of information should be sufficient, and this is that before we signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which we apply unilaterally, we had revenues from customs duties of 829m euros in 2014, at the time of the famous progressive renaissance of 295m euros. That's the statistics from the Bureau of Statistics. So it's a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. No one pays attention to political conditions coming from the EU regarding Serbia's co-operation with other European countries and some non-European countries. So, the basic thing that I suppose is the priority of every government is the national interest of Serbia. Serbia's national interest, above all, is to co-operate with countries without any political pressure and to focus maximum on the Russian Federation. Of course, we welcome the signing of the Agreement on Co-operation with the Eurasian Union, but that is not enough. We could hear here from SNS MPs that even if we never enter the EU, we need European standards here. That's not true either. Look at the countries in our environment that have also become members of the EU, and they do not have that famous German, Swedish or any other standard, they already have a standard intended for Balkan and other countries. This cannot be compared to some of the EU's richest countries, which, considering even 60% of the EU's budget goes to those richest countries, and the rest go only crumbs. They're Baltic countries, they're former Soviet countries. The eastern bloc, the countries of the Warsaw Pact and the Balkan country. They no longer lie to us that we will ever become EU members, instead we are offered various Balkan unions together with Albania, Northern Macedonia, so-called. Kosovo and who not already. We are talking about a special partnership between the EU and Serbia, which is what Germany offered ten years ago to Turkey, which was a clear signal to all that Turkey would never become an EU member and that is what the Turks understood and asked for foreign policy alternatives accordingly. That hasn't happened in Serbia yet. What results from our co-operation with the EU is too much dependence on the EU. When we are promised these pre-accession funds, we almost never get that amount that we are promised, and we are constantly dependent on the Administrative Centre in Brussels. Some former finance ministers in the Baltic countries called it a drug crisis, as those countries as drug addicts are completely dependent on their future and fate depends on what Brussels will do with them. It's a danger to happen to Serbia. The European Union for Serbia's membership requires full recognition of Kosovo's independence and Kosovo's non-blocking towards UN membership. That's what nobody cares about today. We had a chance to listen, before the SNS came to power, she mentioned Resolution 1244 of the Security Council much more often, she said she would review everything so-called. Bork's agreements. It happened quite the opposite. Keep in mind that the EU has double arches when it comes to the richest countries and countries that tend to be members or represent the EU's periphery. We can boast here as much as we want with our good cooperation, but the truth is completely different, the EU is an accomplice to the formation of so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. She sent a EULEX mission there to install Kosovo institutions and treat Kosovo as an independent state. The European Union did not have such an arsenal when it came to Cyprus, although there was tension and conflict and the Republic of Northern Cyprus was not under the effective control of the government in Nicosia, the EU accepted Cyprus as its membership without political conditions and without these requirements to recognise each other. This is a completely different situation with Serbia today. Look at the consequences that countries now have of EU members, related to the economy when Bulgaria was forbidden to target its economy and its exports towards Russia, when it was meant to focus on Germany, had an external trade deficit, and before that, a surplus in co-operation with the Russian Federation. All these countries are rapidly losing their population, at least ten percent apart from ten years. Romania's two million Bulgarians, 700 thousand, in Croatia more than 450 thousand are the difference between the population before and after. So these are the facts that we should consider and we should have a kind of "plan B" and an alternative to this impasse and this famous policy that the SNS has won from DS, which is Europe has no alternative. We're talking about German growth that's bigger than German, Swiss pensions and so on. The only thing in Serbia is the prices, but that's why pensions and salaries are Serbian. The only product we export very successfully and provide for the EU market is cheap labour. That's how it's gonna stay in the future and it's never gonna change. Keep in mind these signals coming from Brussels, we need to consider them seriously. Look what we're looking for on that road. We will be asked to become full members of the North Atlantic Pact, the military coalition that bombed us for 78 days, committed aggression on our country, occupied our territory. By doing more than 100 billion dollars of material damage and killing over 2,500 thousand people. We will be asked to stamp the last mark on the independence and statehood of the so-called Republic of Kosovo and Kosovo's membership in the UN, we will be asked to settle the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina for all time, which means full integration of Banja Luka into something called unitary BiH and the liquidation of Republika Srpska. These are all facts, it comes from the largest European officials, the president of the states, from members of American diplomacy we always get such messages, and we are offered something that doesn't even exist, which is a European perspective for the Western Balkans. The sooner Serbia should focus on co-operation with the Euro-Asian Union, towards membership in the Euro-Asian Union, towards membership in the ODKB, towards co-operation with the BRIKS countries, Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa, today represent the most prospective, wealthiest and the greatest part of the economic world, and it is our great happiness that we are with these countries in long-term friendly relations and can co-operate with them without political pressures. What is also bad for Serbia in our EU-Serbia co-operation situation is the incompetence of Serbian products on the European market that is not the case with markets in Asia, i.e. in the Euro-Asian economic community. Because of the EU, we have a subsidy regime that gives more than 10,000 euros per job to each foreign investor, free land and all necessary permits under accelerated procedures and free of charge. This will lead Serbia to too much dependence on the lobby of foreign investors who will blackmail Serbia with their potential departure from here unless it meets certain political decisions that are in the interest of the EU's most powerful countries. Mr. Arsic said we were isolationists. That's absolutely not true. The Serbian Radical Party has never advocated isolation, to suspend co-operation with any other country except the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. We want to co-operate with European countries, but at a bilateral level without political pressures and not in a subordinate position, which is what enables us the EU, only a subordinate position. I think that, above all, the politicians who are in power in Serbia should be in mind, and if we pretend it's not true, it doesn't matter, we're going to end very badly, and you have to bear in mind that North Macedonia, that's the most recent example, has given up its name to start negotiations on the membership of Northern Macedonia in the EU. There were strong guarantees that this would happen, and eventually the blockades from the Netherlands and France arrived. So, the European perspective is dead. She doesn't exist anymore. There is no reason why such a situation should not be the same with Serbia. Serbia will also remain deceived, and we will give up much more than the Macedonians have given up, and we will give up our territory, our identity, and some of the demands of the largest European countries are recognition that genocide took place in Srebrenica and that Serbia is responsible for this genocide for being the introduction to Republika Srpska's resolution. The responsible government should take all of this into account and take measures and steps to change such a situation and review the diabolical decision of the occupation administration that came to Serbia on October 5th, that the EU is Serbia's only future. If little Iceland of 300,000 people could say that EU membership is not in their economic interest, I see no reason that Serbia can't do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63372	Thank you. On Article 6th of the amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63373	It is almost the end of this debate, according to the amendments, and we are inadmissible to the reasonings of the motions of this law of the Resistant Ministry and Government, which is why we are entering amendments and additions to the laws on imports, exports of dual-use goods, because the reason that the processing of over 700 permits is an annual heavy burden for employees in the state administration is absolutely pointless. They should be doing their job, and now that entrepreneurs from Serbia are waiting for more than 30 days, it is also the ministry's poor work. This is about another dangerous thing, if these foreign investors start mass as a repromatter, what they need for their business to import double-use goods, without increased control, beware Mr. Minister, we have some bad experiences as well as other countries, you were a military minister and besides you, Mr. Nikcevic, you know very well that it has always been very important, especially for countries in a sensitive area like Serbia, to have strict control of goods that has that mark that the goods are of dual purpose. Do you think, Mr. Minister, here's this drone of children's toys that he can only be, that it's not like I'm doing some conspiracy theory but here you are people who've been in military structures, weapons, because there have been such examples everywhere in the world. Do you know, the one whose interest is to destabilise Serbia, not to give God some kind of terrorist activity or something will find a way to also import such goods, which seems to be a child's toy some drone, can also be a weapon that for security structures of some additional upgrade and how dangerous. So, we Serbian radicals have therefore submitted this amendment which I am explaining, we ask that those who import such goods within seven days after all the controls of the state make a written report, and how much, you know ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, our people who own businesses in Serbia don't know what all goods are for double purposes, or what danger they may have if they import a product from an EU country, goes so far as to have even various, as they like to say training, education by the administration of Serbia's customs and others who have to explain to them that it is not all that has been declared and that they are offered by an individual foreign partner so harmlessly for Serbia's market.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63374	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63375	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of double-use goods. Article 7 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 29 in Article 1 and Article 3 of the basic law. Otherwise, Article 29 of the applicable law defines criminal provisions, the exact infringements of this law. The Serbian Radical Party proposes that Article 29 replace Article 2 so that it reads - violations for the 1st article's position will also be punished by a responsible person in a legal person with a fine of ten times to a double purpose of the amount of goods. We believe that this amendment contributes to the reduction and possibility of abuse by the responsible persons in the legal face. The amendment also expresses the SRS's principle of reducing the range of threatened fines, with the minimum amount of fines increased while the highest would remain unchanged. The fact that in the practice of criminal courts in Serbia, we can see that when measuring the penalties to the responsible persons in the legal person who are perpetrators of the offence is most often the lowest amount of the threatened sentence. The judges then state that they felt that such punishment would achieve the purpose of punishment and that it would end. In the practice of our criminal courts, it is also the punishment of a responsible person in a legal person, by giving the warning as a punishment, because the court considers that this will achieve the purpose of punishment. In order to count the penalties for the misdemeanors committed, we believe that this amendment will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63376	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63377	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7(4). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of double-use goods. I asked the amendment to change the position of the member mentioned, requiring an increase in sentence. This is required because the SRS always takes a principled position, that law enforcement must be effective, and one way to do so is to increase the penalty for those who do not respect it. The essence of every regulation is that it must not remain a crumb of letter on paper, especially when it comes to a law like the law we are considering. There must be no deviations here, here to the smallest details must be in accordance with the regulations. Otherwise, why do so many regulations that grow more and more every day? The MPs are here to see all the shortcomings of the bill, which we of the SRS are doing. Yours, like all other previous authorities, we have repeatedly warned that your laws have been unarranged. So, finally, after a long time, we received reports on the final budget account for about 15 years back. I have to admit that for every commendation, the persistent insistence of the SRS on these things has finally begun to produce results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-29-0.u63378	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, October 30th, 2019, starting at 10:00 p.m. as the day for voting on agenda points, the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in 2019. We'd be done with today's work. [[The session was suspended at 1840 hours]]
