ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61476	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 65 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall. So we have conditions and quorum to work with. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61477	I thank the chairman. As so far, I will ask certain questions concerning the southeast of Serbia and the areas in which the people live. Otherwise, my first question is about the Ministry of Agriculture, because we're witnessing that a few years ago at the Ministry of Agriculture has provided funds in a budget related to subsidies, that the amount of subsidies has been increased, the number of people who have applied, but we have something that is very important to me, and we should change that urgently -- that's the Regulation on determining an area with more difficult living conditions. That's what they're called. marginal areas. The rule that has existed since 2012 or thereafter is the Regulation which defines that areas that are more than 500 metres above sea level or where they have more than 100 workers in that village or the percentage number of employees from that village, who work, these villages are not marginal. Villages over 500 metres above sea level, these villages are marginal, areas marginal and these areas have certain subsidies privileges, to support the competent agriculture ministry. We have a large number of areas and villages that have that status. Say, the village where I come from is the village of Pluzina, from Svrlig. That village is run like a developed village, and the village next to it is the same. The difference is only in two or three who are employed or are fictitiously led in that village or are being led in my village as reported to live, to use travel costs. This village is not marginal, or vice versa, which means that the criterion, altitude, number of people who are led to work in these areas is not realistic and it is not good because the needs of our agricultural producers living in southeastern Serbia in mountainous and mountainous areas, living with difficult living conditions, are all the municipalities, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Svrljig, Boljevac, Doljevac and a large number of such municipalities, they need to ensure that the entire territory of the municipality and all villages have the status of the marginal area, because it is really very difficult to live there. I suggest that one of the criteria that should be the number of children born in these villages, what is the number of children, when children are born, how far they have moved, how many people have died, that should be the rule. Normally, and to look at that altitude, but it shouldn't be crucial because if a village is at 499 meters above sea level, that village tomorrow has a status of developed area, areas where living conditions are not difficult, and a village that has 500.05 meters, that village is with difficult living conditions and in that village people, as they say, have privileges, that is, it's not a privilege, it's really the need to have a privileged position. Therefore, I propose that this Regulation for determining areas with difficult living conditions should be done differently, that they be the entire territory of municipalities and that one of these criteria be the number of children born, the number of dead. It is to be the basis for all because we need to put an accent on people living in the country and from the village, who have a very difficult job to give them more support and support from the competent Ministry of Agriculture, that every man living in such territory of the municipality, such as the municipalities that I mentioned earlier, the fourth group of underdevelopment, the devastated municipalities, the mountain-mounted municipalities, that the entire territory of the municipality be in status with difficult living conditions and that there people can compete to get funds, that they have no problems when they compete. That's one thing, and I think in that part we need to do more seriously, that regulation we need to change and call on the competent Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister to do so, if it can, by the end of the year or by the beginning of next year, when the new agricultural budget is adopted. We are witnessing that next year's agricultural budget will be increased precisely because we are putting a major emphasis on the development of agriculture, because agriculture is a big support for the development of the Republic of Serbia. That's one question. One more thing I'd like to ask, it's specifically about infrastructure, building roads in southeastern Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61478	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61479	Here, just a second. In particular, my question is – when will it begin to build a road from Zaječar to Književec? It is a road that is very important for Eastern Serbia and will there be three bridges in that part of the road that are located there, which is the bridge in Mali Source, Miricevo and Gornja Zunisje? To expand these bridges because these bridges are tight throats and there's just traffic in one direction, and the other direction has to wait? Thanks again. And I expect it to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61480	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Now the word has been made by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The attitude of the state towards its citizens and the real value of its citizens is seen among other things and by what support it gives them when it is most difficult for them, when they are sick and when they count down their last days of life and how much dignity the state allows them then. Therefore, we will ask the Minister of Health about the state of bilateral care in Serbia. According to statistics in Serbia, 57 people die daily from malignancies only. Serbia is surrounded by one of 125 countries, the only one who does not have an institutional solution to bilateral care. So patients were terminally ill at the time when all medical remedies for their treatment were exhausted after being released from hospitals often left to themselves and members of their families. These patients and their families are, in fact, one of the most endangered social groups and unfortunately, their numbers are increasing. Paliatical care is a fundamental human right and Serbia has made a small step towards the new Health Insurance Act, but it is another law that is going slowly and very hard because it is obvious that there is no means or political will to institutionalise the paliative care. Serbia does not have any specialised institution for palliatical care, and with this attitude, practically states discriminate against such patients, and its citizens and members of their families who are rarely forced to leave jobs, to leave their careers, to sell out property to pay for private care and professional staff services. According to official data, only one third of the terminal patients die annually in Serbia under hospital conditions. The remaining two-thirds are left to members of their families who have to deal with them alone without any expertise and poor expertise. In Novi Sad, which is considered one of the more developed municipalities in Serbia, patients who are under the care of home care have to wait for the doctor's arrival in order to get an injection to relieve the pain in a rough 10 hours and then it is established to ask themselves – what is the situation with undeveloped municipalities and villages in which even two-thirds of them do not have an ordinary infirmary? That is why we are referring to the Minister of Health, in front of the SMS parliamentary group, the question – whether the government is planning to institutionally address the lack of paliatical institutions, how many beds for paliatical care are currently available in Serbia's territory. As long as it has arrived with an increase in capacity for palitative care in health institutions in Serbia, especially in less developed municipalities. So here I don't mean primarily the larger clinical centres of Belgrade, Nisa, because the smaller hospitals are unorthodox, forced to improvise these departments. Have all health institutions in Serbia formed teams that have been educated for paliative care? Is the Ministry planning to increase the number of personnel in the area, in order to enable final and practical application in April of the new law adopted, and does the state plan to participate with 20% of the funds in the opening of the Palitative Care Centre, so "hostations", given that we are the only country in an environment that does not operate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61482	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61483	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, we know that the role of a woman in society is significant not only through the role of mother and wife but also through the role of an employee and businesswoman who participates in the overall development of our society. Unfortunately, the position and role of a woman in the country, which is often the pillar of the house and family, is often neglected and underrespected. It is often burdened with childcare, household work, and many difficult jobs in agriculture, often without health insurance, and has no agricultural pension. On the other hand, the most common homeowners are men. According to some surveys, each fifth woman is the owner of agricultural land, and only 12% are the owners of the houses they live in. These facts certainly affect the overall economic position of women in the country, and often prevent their entrepreneurship. In domestic violence against women in the country is not spoken, and it happens. We read about it in the press. The company must take serious steps towards the economic and social empowerment of women in the country, which still bear the greatest burden of rural development and the burden of agricultural production, whether it is family production or agricultural production intended for the market. We must keep in mind all the time that our villages are disappearing, that our villages are old and without empowering women in the village, we won't have a village. In this regard, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic, does the Ministry have any data on the number of women who are the holders of agricultural land, and what measures of incentives in the area of agriculture and rural development have been used over the last three years? Minister Krkobic, in charge of regional development, I would like to ask how many women are founders of the cooperative. I also ask Minister Djordjevic, in charge of work, employment, martial arts and social issues – whether a special programme of employment and self-employment and incentives for women's entrepreneurship in rural areas is being considered, with the aim of their economic empowerment, better health and social protection and protection of family and any other form of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61484	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday Minister Dacic informed the public that a UN Security Council session will be held on 31 October to discuss Antony Guteresh's report by the UN Secretary General on what they say. This session was scheduled by South Africa, which holds the presidency this month and which otherwise did not recognise a false state in Kosovo. We Serbian radicals think this is the last chance for representatives of Serbia to participate in the session, insist on Resolution 1244 and return to resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems in the UN. We have almost half the members there today, first of all the Russian Federation and China, who are our sincere friends, and we have to take advantage of that. You can see for yourself that these great Western forces which em have recognised a false state of Kosovo are now asking Serbia to stop lobbying for the recall of recognition of some states that are obviously ready to do so. I guess we need to be more clear that they can't be our friends. Economic co-operation with individual countries is something else, but to represent as friends, as anyone comes here, yesterday we had a representative of the Czech Parliament who told us nicely that he doesn't care because President Zeman said he would ask, try to and the Czech Republic to withdraw that recognition, he said yesterday, as a great friend, wanted to be honest and to tell us that he had nothing to do with it. Of such friends, dear friends, dear colleagues, there's nothing. We Serbian radicals issued a statement 15 days ago inviting all loyal citizens of Serbia to vote on this so-called Sunday. the elections of the so-called elections. Kosovo states for the Serb list. We invited all Serbs, as well as all Goranes, Albanians, loyal Albanians, Askalia, Egyptians, Roma, all citizens loyal to the state of Serbia, to give their support and to go out to vote for the Serbian list. This is not how we changed our attitude toward that false state. The Serbian Radical Party is not and will not register under these Shipar regulations, nor will we participate as a party in the elections, but as a state-run party and a responsible political party, we think this is the time when all patriots should call for a vote for the Serbian List. When it comes to elections, there are now some lists on which, I don't know, already commonly known and testified traitors such as Rada Trajkovic, Rasic, Petkovic and similar, will be a big problem, much bigger than there is now if one of them is a member of that so-called. The Kosovo Assembly. We are still against both Brussels agreements, but it is more than clear that the Serbian List is under the influence of Alexander Vukic and the authorities in Serbia and that it is obvious that after these elections, they will be influenced by so-called. Kosovo, continue negotiations on resolving the KIM problem. We Serbian radicals think that both Vucic and those representatives who will participate in these negotiations should fully open the space and give them full stability, as far as possible, to KIM, in order to hope, within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of the Serbian state, to lead and possibly complete those negotiations. So whoever's an honest friend of Serbia won't let in that, whatever so-called. Kosovo's assembly, to sit in Rada Trajkovic, Petkovic, Rasic and others, because they are just created and going to the elections so that after they can manipulate them and say here, some Serbs have accepted something that will by no means be in the interest of the Serbian state. So, once again, I urge all loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia to go to Sunday's elections, to vote for the Serbian List, and we ask the authorities to allow all people who can vote in KIM, who live in other parts of Serbia, to allow them to go to their KIM polling stations on Sunday and to vote, we repeat, for the Serbian list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61486	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61487	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I question the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia. Have the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia sinned in their statements on Kosovo and Metohija, on the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, Article 305 to 321, and what will the Prosecutor's Office do about it? Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, in a nation known as a member of an international group of thieves and frauds, said in the authorial text "Washington Post", that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, quotes - a traitorous bastard. It's a finished quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected MPs, it is true that Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian patriot and patriot, a great statesman and reformer who would never, ever, work against the interests of the citizens of our country and his country of Serbia. It is now the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, the traitorous bastards of our country, that we take the lead. In a conversation with US congressman Teo Do in December 2008, Vuk Jeremic said, quote -- the entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN, the best that Serbia should hope for, if lucky, to have a quote, and thus be classified as our country's traitorous bastards. In July 27, 2010, it was one of the largest dates of the so-called The Kosovo state, on that day, Pristina received a legal argument thanks to Jeremic for pushing his independence to the end. Therefore, honourable MPs, Pristina celebrates Vuk Jeremic, because Albanian leadership considers him the creator of the most important paper in the hands of the so-called so-called so-called Albanian leadership. Kosovo's independence, which is why he knows for a fact what time he's placed himself in the traitorous scum of our country. Zoran Zivkovic, in a people known as a farmer in an attempt, as former prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia at an international conference in Vienna, said in October 2003, I quote - no matter whose Kosovo and Metohija, were finished, and thus ranked in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Boris Tadic, in a people called Lipicaner, in a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, I quote -- Kosovo and Metohija's independence doesn't have to mean loss if under the right is explained in voters' heads, finished a quote, and on July 27, 2006, he told US envoy Wisler, quote -- I broke and accepted independence as an outcome, finished the quote, and thus settled into the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Dragan Gilas, a people known as the Giki Mafia, because he entered politics as a common gologus and ended up leaving office as a tycoon of hundreds of million euros. On 13 August 2009, he said, quote -- to the US ambassador to Belgrade, envoys to Belgrade Jennifer Bras -- I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic, and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija, a finished quote, and this puts him in line for our country's traitorous bastards. Sergei Trifunovic, in a people known as Sergei Pishoi, as he said he would piss on the grave of the President of the Republic, said on January 31st 2009, I quote -- Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not Serbs, and thus ranks in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Professor Rade Veljanovski, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia among colleagues known as Rade jajara, because he was messing with his doctorate and thus violated academic integrity, said on 21 April 2018, quote – Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a UN chair, and thus Professor Rade, called the eggs, ranks in the order of our country's traitorous bastards. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable People's MPs, while our President, Aleksandar Vukic, daily makes huge efforts to seek an acceptable, compromise and sustainable solution for our southern Serbian province, so far as you can see, the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, the daily mud of the President of the Republic, his family, his closest associates, particularly ministers Stefanovic and Sinisha Malo, and their statements on the southern Serbian province, are among the ranks of our country's traitors. I call on all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, their fellow professors, former students and citizens of loyal Serbia to give their vote to the Serb list, because that is how they will remain, voting for it, in their centuries-old hearths, and guarantee it is the state of Serbia and the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61488	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 4 to 6 of the agenda. We move on to a joint principled search on the draft law on state aid control, the draft accounting law and the draft law on audit. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Jelena Tanaskovic and Slavica Savičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Filip Shanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance Vladimir Antonijevic, President of the Commission for State Aid Control, Luka Tomic, Head of the Office of Finance and Aleksandar Janjusevic, Head of the Department of Finance. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint review of the draft agenda laws under points four, five and six, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, if and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a draft law on state aid control, a draft law on accounting and a draft law on audit. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is Dr. Sinisha Mali, Minister of Finance. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61489	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, you have three draft laws, a bill on state aid control, a draft law on accounting and a draft law on audit. The aim of the proposed accounting and audit laws is to raise the quality of financial reporting in the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the preconditions for creating a better business environment in the country to encourage the development of domestic economy and attract potential foreign investment. There are five basic reasons for the adoption of the proposed laws. First, harmonising with the requirements of new EU rules in the area of corporate financial reporting and that is Directive 213/34 and Directive 214/95, as well as meeting the criteria for closing Chapter 6, the right of companies. Second, accepting Manival's recommendation in the area of preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. As you know, Manival is the body of the Council of Europe, which deals with the assessment of the consistency of national systems for the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism by Member States of the Council of Europe with international standards. FATF. The third is a better assessment of future performances of companies, which will allow investors to make good investment decisions based on transparent financial reports. The fourth reason is to improve the existing system of public oversight and control over the quality of the work of the audit profession, and in line with EU legislation and best scratch. The fifth reason is to raise the level of quality audit and financial reporting in the Republic of Serbia, by improving the audit system, which is one of the preconditions for attracting potential foreign investors and domestic investors as well. The key amendments proposed in the Accounting Act are as follows: regulation of the provision of accounting services, the Chamber of Authorised Auditors will issue permits to legal persons and entrepreneurs for work, while the registry will be managed by the Agency for Business Registers, with registration under official duty and no additional costs for the economy. One of the conditions for obtaining permits is that at least one person should be permanently employed in a legal person and that person, or himself an entrepreneur, fulfils the condition that he has professionally called from the field of accounting or audit acquired by a member of the International Federation of Accountants. Currently in the Republic of Serbia there are two such professional organisations that are members of the International Federation of Accountants, and this is the Chamber of Authorised Auditors and the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia. The register of accounting service providers shall start on 1 January 2021, and legal entities, i.e. entrepreneurs providing accounting services within three years from the date of entry into force of this law, shall be obliged to comply with their business provisions of this law. So, quite enough time period of three years, so that legal persons who deal with this activity and comply with this law. The obligation for legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs to issue invoices, invoices, as accounting documents, exclusively in electronic form is also one of the provisions of the Accounting Act. This will simplify the process of issuing invoices, not requiring a seal or signature and shortening the time necessary to carry out these tasks, will provide faster VAT returns and others. These e-factures will be mandatory starting on 1 January 2022. So, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, this accounting law is the first step towards introducing e-factures in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. In the next three years, we will deal with this through a whole series of laws and sublegal acts, so that e-factures will be introduced without signatures from January 1st, 2022. So, all of what they do to developed market economies, we and this law are going to open the door to this. The third characteristic of the Accounting Act is that different categories of legal entities, including micro and small legal persons, can apply international standards of financial reporting when drawing up regular annual financial reports. This will affect further reduction of legal persons' costs related to financial reporting, easier business and ensuring that their financial reports are more transparent and reliable. Furthermore, this law provides for the abolition of the obligation to compile and deliver two sets of reports. If you remember, there are two sets of reports to be delivered, for statistical and other needs, as well as financial reports to the Business Registers Agency, and now we have one deadline, a deadline for the submission of regular annual financial reports, which will include a statistical report, by 31 March of the current year. Finally, this law requires the adoption of Recommendation 28 Manivals to amend existing regulations, in the sense of banning criminally convicted legal and natural persons and their related persons, as well as their associates, to be founders and owners of legal entities and entrepreneurs engaged in the provision of accounting services. The most important changes to the draft law on audit are the following: firstly, public oversight of quality audit and quality control over the work of the audit profession are united within one institution and that is the Commission for Securities of Values. This proposal is in line with EU regulatory and best practice requirements. The process is now taking place in three institutions – the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, the Committee on Public Control of Auditing and the Ministry of Finance. The process from the start of quality control of the auditor's work to the final result, the measurement will be shorter, and there have been cases of the process taking more than six months from the date of initiation of the process within the Chamber of Authorised Auditors. The second most important amendment is the adoption of Recommendation 28 Manivals to amend existing regulations in the context of the ban on convicted legal and natural persons and their related persons, as well as their associates to be the founders and owners of the audit society. The third amendment concerns the deadline for the coordination of the audit companies, which is one year from the date of entry into force of this law, with the obligation to notify the Commission and the chamber of which no new application for authorisation is submitted. Finally, the last important amendment to this law is the erasure of the measures imposed on the register and this applies to the erasure period starting from the date of the statement of the measure, in accordance with the existing Revision Act. Today, the State Aid Control Act is also on the agenda, and the objectives for the adoption of the proposed law are to strengthen transparency in the granting of state aid, more effective control, but also to remove the ambiguities observed in the application of existing rules. Furthermore, to meet one of the criteria for opening the Negotiating Chapter 8 – Competition policy and obtaining a positive assessment by the European Commission on the Annual Report, as well as compliance with European Union regulations. Finally, ensuring the operational independence of the Commission for the control of state aid, thus defining the competence and establishing a clear position of the Commission as an independent body, the way in which its bodies are elected, while regulating the employment status of an employee. The most important solution and the paper proposed by law are the following: clearly, the numbered instruments of public aid are given in order to facilitate the finding of a state aid provider, with the exception of subsidies and favourable loans, instruments can be both sales or use of property in public property, with a reduced fee or no compensation, a write-off of works or a whole debt and other. Furthermore, situations are listed which do not constitute state aid, so-called State aid. ‘Altmark criteria’, for services of general economic interest, the behaviour of state aid providers in such a way as to behave as a typical market participant in private property, giving guarantees under market conditions and other. The cumulation, i.e. the collection of State aid granted, as well as the aid of small value were set at the legal level. The law also proposes to introduce a register of state aid and de minimis aid, which is actually an electronic base. The Register of State Aid and Small Value Aid shall be established no later than one year from the date of application of this Act. This law also provides for a clear obsolescence of the return of state aid, and only after a period of 10 years has elapsed, starting with the day of granting state aid. This law also implies meeting the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with the Commission for State Control to gain legal personality status, to have its own budget and to be responsible for its work for the National Assembly. Finally, the Commission will carry out analyses of the state aid granted and instruments, but will also form an annual report on the state aid granted, as well as an annual report on the list of State aid schemes. It will be able to ban the grant of state aid if it considers it out of sync, but it will also be able to order the refund of the funds already allocated. Finally, the Commission will also be able to punish the beneficiary of State aid if he does not act on the Commission's order. The Commission's decisions will be able to control the Administrative Court, based on legal remedies available to parties in the process. I hope, honourable Members, that in the coming days we will have a constructive and reasoned debate on the proposals of these three laws. All three laws are very important to us, to improve the additional economic environment, to make us even more attractive and more competitive and thus encourage high growth rates of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61490	Thank you, Minister Mali. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61491	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, today we have three laws in the set concerning things that, when we look at in principle, can be reduced to words such as credibility, trust, honor, reliability, control. So we have two laws that are particularly relevant and meet some of the challenges that have arisen over the years of Serbia's European integration, and also during the problems that exist in practice because accounting is a rather dynamic thing. At times, it was extremely dynamic for us, when we had for my taste and for the taste of most too congenital frameworks, but let's move things to the better, and it's important that we keep agreeing with European directives so that one day we become the European market under the legal system of the best we have in history, I am convinced. That is why we in the SMS Group always welcome from the heart everything that has to do with meeting the criteria in the EU's accession chapter. The continued satisfaction and monitoring of what the EU adopts, as what would be said, only when everything agrees can the ratification process be discussed. So, even if we were in line at one point and in agreement. We have to keep track of it until the target in 2023 or maybe some later years, but I still hold on to it that if we work hard and smartly in 2023 it doesn't necessarily have to be a late year, whichever. I'd start with this law that may have the biggest echo in the public, because the fact is that all people who do some business are not co-workers in contact with accountants. The accountant in Serbia is not only someone who registers changes in a simpler or more complex way depending on whether he uses the ministry's or IFRS's rules, but is the most often consultant of a company that informs the company of ways that tax can legally be optimised, how it is best to make distinctions, reservations, even optimises its business. And with that, accountants are one important part of this society, and they were probably also the most interested in this whole thing and this whole set of laws. I'm not saying that the revision doesn't matter, the revision might be more important when we look at the overall economic system, but when we look at the general public, it's much more interested in this first thing. Basically, we in SMS noticed five things that I would mention in the debate in principle. In particular, we have some other things, and we have submitted certain amendments that I think we have tried on our part to improve the basic text. The grudge that exists, and I didn't say it, but associations both accounting and accounting alliances, as well as other bodies that gather business people that we could have had a little longer public debate and that maybe I could have removed all the misunderstandings and all the disagreements that have arisen. You, in essence, now in the business public that's being tangled directly by the Accounting Act, have a lot of divided views on the first question that touched them most, which is the obligation to possess an adequate certificate, if you run an accounting agency at least one person must have a certificate. They divided into two groups, of which one group of experts said that it was not necessary for accounting to be learned in one way or another, to regulate the market. By law, you have one provision that's a little strange to me, which is that the accountants don't answer for what they sign, but the responsible person, so it creates one specific relationship that exists within a legal person, but that's not what I'm getting into right now at this point of the topic. On the other hand, you have a professional main association that said it was okay and that those who have experience, knowledge and all other things can pass the exam quite easily and get the proper calling. On this side, the SMS parliamentary group is much closer to saying that it is perfectly okay to have a regulation by whom, if you run an accounting agency or if you are engaged in accounting, you must have at least one person who has the appropriate certificates of the competent body in the Republic of Serbia who is a member of international organisations that gather accountants and auditors. On that side, we don't think it's a restriction on entering the profession, because no one has limited the number of accountants, as has happened in some other professions that many today view as easy-earning professions. On that side, our support is that we always have at least one person with a proper certificate, and a good recommendation would be that those who don't have to do things by nature have to pass exams. Also, it is in nature to be an accountant that needs to be perfected and followed by regulations so that by nature things have to be continuously educated. So on that side, we're inclined to dismiss the object of the obligation to lay down and support that there must be at least one. As far as electronic invoices are concerned, we already have some things that are very similar and that is the mandatory Register of invoices relating to payments with the state and registration are now mandatory for some of the transactions of this guy that go from the budget. The mechanism is quite simple after you get the appropriate codes, after you register your legal face and thus we have a very good picture of where the flows from the Republic of Serbia's budget go. I'm not sure how much it's possible to do at this point, I have no idea how much quality controls are based only on the obligation to register, but that is one good basis. On the other hand, if we had a huge problem in VAT vomiting, quite a number of creative VAT abuses and a long wait to return VAT precisely because some problems related to a very creative interpretation of what can be returned by some business entities. We think electronic invoices are a good thing. We do not think they should be mandatory if VAT is not included, for example for agricultural holdings and some other legal entities that are not in the VAT system, it is not necessary. But what's good, anyway, is that we're creating a state that can better service the economy. On that side, as I said, probably also when I've criticised several times some legal solutions that apply to, say, protests that we now have every day, bridge blockades in Belgrade, we won't support what has to do with IT, the introduction of IT into Serbia, the electronic administration, digitalisation, because there's no competitive economy, there's no development or anything, if we don't have IT in every pores of our public administration, if we don't have digitalisation of the economy, so out of business. There's the closest way to raising the efficiency of our society. Also, the solution by which small entities are left to choose on which principle the reports will be drawn up is a solution that is fine, because essentially not only large economic operators are consolidated, the smaller ones are consolidated and the possibility of better consolidation especially with the relevant accounting software is a good thing. The very possibility of a choice is also something that we can support. It's a solution that's fine. It is with regret that we have arrived at one point to be criticised as Serbia, because we have had certain delays both at FAFT and at the Council of Europe. What the lesson we should learn as the Republic of Serbia is that this does not happen to us in the future as often as the reasons are objective and as much as this is due to the fact that legislative changes have certain dynamics and sometimes can be shorts, if they are done too quickly. In any case, with respect to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, that is, its specialised body, which deals with money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing and other extremely ugly activities, are things that are good for the Republic of Serbia. One remark in the principle that we will make in the amendments, and I think that when it comes to an appropriate system of accounting based on accounting software that prevents ex post rewriting. Of course, post-recording is possible with appropriate documentation, it's not controversial, accounting, and it's known how it's done, but it makes it impossible to make up for a very creative re-recording charge without proper accounting documentation, I think it was good at law to define a little bit closer to what kind of software it is, at least in one to two words. We've offered the right solution, but now let's not go into it as we discuss it in principle. As far as the audit is concerned, there has always been one key question of who controls the controllers. It's a question in every country. A credible system says you need to have control. Control is good not only for punishment, but for learning, for raising performance. The controllers are the repairers, the ones who make mistakes in good faith. They are also good to prevent those who do bad practice in the hope that they will not be discovered. However, control is also people who tend to break down if the pressure and the proper profit from insubordination is high. From that, moving what I like to call super audits to another place and another institution that is a little further away from the auditors themselves is a solution that allows for better control of audit houses. Many times it has been said in public that sometimes the audit reports resemble the standards of customer replacement between large players and that sometimes the audit reports do not seem to lead to a general rise in the quality of business reports in Serbia. That's a pretty good solution from our side. Also, once again recommendation 28 Manivals, quite all right on that side when it comes to these two laws, we have no significant objections to the Revision Act in principle, we will have objections to the Accounting Act that we will make in the amendments, so in principle we are quite restrained at this point. Now, as far as the third State Aid Act is concerned, in principle, a wonderful moment when you can take a closer look at the picture. The remark that prevents us from opening Chapter 8, I hope that within a relatively reasonable period we close it, no one closes it quickly, it won't be like 23 and 24, that it lasts another. Here, unfortunately, we won't have transitional criteria, like environmentals, which we haven't even opened yet and so on. What's a good thing is that the law creates objective conditions for a body to control state aid to be independent. The report shows that the body so far is, or was independent, and our state aid was fantastic what it's hard to believe, because we're not a country that has a long culture, tradition, etc. that it does not make mistakes in granting State aid or that body was all but independent, because it did not bring any solution that annuls any state aid. On the other hand, we do well to make progress in removing challenges that may exist in the assignment of State aid. For example, that state aid violates the principle of free competition and competition, that we have the equality of all participants in the Republic of Serbia. The challenges of potential corrupt activities are removed, because wherever you have a cabbage, there will be a rabbit or some goat who will want to eat cabbage, especially if it's someone else's, it's pretty cute, because it doesn't require anything more than a little creativity and a little corruption. Basically, it's okay to make an independent body and make that independent body pretty strict in assessing the effects of state aid. We are a country that likes to help the economy and the level of our state aid is much higher than in the EU. So two challenges await us. One is to reduce that perimeter, to direct it right. The guidance in itself shows signs that it's better. We don't have any more broken institutions, like the Development Fund, for example, a complete mess. We don't have a bucket of money in the company and restructuring without knowing what ever happened. We don't even have a "work" loan, state banks and an offer under the original marketing password -- here's the loan you don't have to pay back. It's cost us a lot in the past. What is the fact that unlike the former state aid system that was, extremely original, we now have state aid that is too large, in our opinion, the Modern Serbia Party, but it's a little better directed. The challenge of the future is also to avoid overlapping, to avoid noticing that some state aids are happening, because it's not just a subsidy, far from that, there's still a lot of ways to help someone get the advantage on the market. What is our conclusion when we talk about these things, and what is the conclusion, more or less to the professional public, help. Sometimes you need help, it's not controversial, most often, to avoid being what's said "too big to fail" or things like that, but sometimes it's necessary to do that, because we have undeveloped regions where people moved from, we have some other things to build, some challenges, such as ecosystems, eco-efficientness, and a lot more that will wait for us in the future, which we haven't thought about in years. The future is beautiful, challenging, and difficult, and it can bring a lot of satisfaction if it works wisely. However, what is essential is the market, and what should be the first task when we are looking at state aid control is to work 100% or 95% on two statistical errors, that the competition does not violate, because although anyone who has a lot more knowledge than any other, more information, more experience, can believe that he has the knowledge to direct a system of crowds of small and large firms that compete with incomplete knowledge of the overall system, that this intervention will be the best. Experience shows us that state interventions are much more often wrong or neutral, and that these imperfect people who are on the market succeed with their imperfect knowledge to create a system in which no one has a complete picture, but a system that progresses. If we look at the beauty of that system, a voluntary transaction that produces the most beautiful fruits. For example, I like to say, here, a pen is one extremely simple thing. The products are marketable, we have never subsidized until now the production of pencils, and in that simple pen are contained metals that may have been dug in Serbia, but probably in China, since they are not produced anywhere, most of them are composed, but yet some chemicals have arrived from a completely tenth country. And the most interesting thing about this pen I'm holding right now is there's one thing that's certainly not from China, which is the tip of a pen, a ball. Let's just say, that ball is still made only in Germany, that it looks like something, that it's not the pen that you write, so get pissed. And that's one amazing thing. You have a billion balls box that the Chinese put inside and that's how the whole world cooperates, Germany, China, lots of suppliers all over China to put together one pen. They have no idea what's going on in the picture, but the result is phenomenal. What we are undermining is that we need to allow as much as possible for the competition to be fair, even, to let our companies and foreign companies that are now ours, to come to us, not to be good hosts, and to try to keep them there, to compete with each other, to perfect, to invest, to throw out new products and services, to hire people in Serbia, or maybe to replace them with better production processes, so that someone else will show up to hire them, and to see that state aid be as little as possible to create distortions, because what can be a trap for every state to help is that those who are in a position to give objectively believe that they are doing a good thing, but essentially to ignore the dispersive knowledge that has been distributed throughout the system. So, on our part, this law is a shift. We're not fans of big state aid, but we're lovers of it if it's already bigger than we wanted it to be, shared in the right way, without distortions in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61492	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61493	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, first of all, Mr. Stevanovic would like to thank you for your constructive comments and suggestions. I think you've seen a few very important things that are important to all three of the laws that we're discussing today. First of all, believe it or not, there are several hundred companies dealing with the provision of accounting services, and they don't have any employees, and they make revenues. And precisely the aim of this law was to introduce order in this, at this point, the gray zone especially as it is the recommendation "Manival", therefore, the bodies of the Council of Europe that deals, so it is hired to give advice that is related to, or related to, the prevention of money laundering. It is through our desire to control this section that applies to those who are involved in accounting and in the assembly and signing of these accounting reports to make this whole process more transparent and clear and in a way to be clearly, by name and last name, identified people who do so. So that's very important. That's why there's a certification obligation. I think it's very important in such responsible professions that you have an obligation to obtain a certificate, to maintain it in some way, to simply invest in your knowledge and also to hold the quality of the level of our profession, and on the other hand to do your job properly. About the fact that even smaller companies, especially daughter companies, can meet, or apply their reports, to apply international, accounting standards in their reports, it is also very important. It's a mistake we're correcting from the existing law. So you have a large number of foreign companies and their daughter companies here where the existing law forbids them or prevents them from making their balance sheets and putting together by international accounting standards, rather than domestic ones, then doing the same thing twice. That's exactly what this law changes. On the subject of electronic invoices, I'm glad you identified it. I think it's a historic change, a historic thing for all of us. So instead of stamping, instead of signing, instead of synchronising the input and output invoices into the endless paper, you're going to have a system that's going to do it automatically. If I'm not mistaken, on average almost 80% of these invoices, even on average, the EU, overlaps in the right way that allows VAT to be recovered at the same time. Others if there are errors being corrected, but there is absolute control on one side. Therefore, abuses in VAT vomiting are reduced, the whole process is being accelerated. So we're not talking about 10, 20 days anymore because today we're returning that VAT much faster than a year, two or two days ago, but it's still five, 10, 15, 20 days of that process. We want to bring this process down to a minimum, so zero, and simply if the input and output invoices match, if VAT is calculated electronically in the right way, VAT can be returned at the same time. On the subject of the Audit Act, the Securities Commission, as an independent body, yes, we are doing a supervisory work or self-control, I am talking about the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, so I am glad that you agree. As far as state aid is concerned, this is a systemically important law, but I want to give you some information, so you have a clear idea. So state aid is something all countries do. In 2018, the total volume of state aid was 43 billion euros, France totaled 17 billion euros, Hungary, to say that it was relatively closer to the size, or size of the economy, 3.3 billion euros had state aid in 2018. We, the 2017 data in the Republic of Serbia, are 69 billion dinars, about 538m euros. So, significantly less than the other states. When there's a justification for state aid, you do it according to the regulations that's recognised everywhere in the world, you can do it. What we just want is for this to be done in a transparent and controlled way so that we can avoid any standards that are excessively defined by the EU and in order to avoid any problems in the implementation of this law exactly by the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61494	Thank you, Minister. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go, Mr. Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61495	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, today we have proposals for three extremely important laws, these are the draft law on state aid control, the draft law on accounting and the draft law on audit. I will refer to the State Aid Control Law in my presentation, as it is likely to be the largest public of three proposed acts. The creation of conditions for the existence of sound competition in the competition is a prerequisite for the successful functioning of the market and the survival of the most successful operators. One of the ways competition can be damaged by the state's operation is state aid. State aid is a specific legal concept defined by the relevant regulations and should be distinguished from the general concept of State support, which represents any support to the exercise of any activity. State aid covers practically all measures of State intervention in the economy, both in form of action and in the form of inaction. The State aid provider is always the Republic of Serbia, i.e. an autonomous province and units of local self-government through competent authorities and any legal person who manages or disposes of public funds and grants state aid in any form. The beneficiary of State aid shall be any legal and natural person who uses State aid in any form in the exercise of the activity of the production or transport of goods or services on the market. State aid control is an essential part of protecting competition, i.e. real competition in a broader sense. State aid control is important for a number of reasons, to ensure that all entrepreneurs in the market have equal operating conditions and thus equal opportunities for success, as well as one of the more important factors in increasing the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and to attract and encourage domestic and foreign investors. Practically, the main reason why it is necessary to control state aid is its negative effect on the state of competition on the market. Uncontrolled state aid applied outside the legal frameworks leads to selective, allocative, productive and dynamic inefficiencies. This means that a fair competition where all participants are equal players only enables them to survive the most successful. Those who fail to leave the branch often go bankrupt. In the case of State aid, it is possible to survive those economic operators who at the time of granting and receiving aid have a certain problem in business. In the Republic of Serbia, legislation began its life in 2009 with the adoption of the State Aid Control Act and two accompanying regulations. A five-member state aid control committee has also been formed as an independent body overseeing the spending of budget incentives on economic operators. This commission is also the main recipient of the rules laid down. The current state aid control law, as I said, was passed in 2009 and has been applied since 2010. Nearly ten years of application of the existing regulation has shown that certain provisions need to be reviewed in a different, more complete manner, some important issues related to the area of state aid, which include the conduct of the state aid control process itself, as well as the way of organisations and the functioning of the State Aid Control Commission. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Serbia established a working group in 2018 to draft a law on state aid control. The Working Party carried out an analysis of the State Aid Control Act and established that it was necessary to make changes to a large number of members in order to ensure more effective application of the law and smooth functioning of the market in terms of better protection of competition from the corner of State aid control, so the only way in line with the uniform methodological rules for the regulation was to adopt a new law governing the area of State aid. The main reason for making such a decision was the urgent need to specify and supplement certain provisions in order to implement them more efficiently in practice, as well as to introduce new legal institutes from the area of state aid into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, one reason for the new law is to comply with the new General Administrative Procedure Act. The procedure before the Commission is a special out-of-government procedure carried out by the Commission when acting in administrative matters, but the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act is also envisaged, so it is necessary to do so to bring the procedural part of the law in line, while the second reason is to achieve the operational independence of the Commission for State Aid Control, so that the Commission acquires legal personality status, will have its own budget in the future and will be responsible for the results of its work to the National Assembly. The adoption of a new law will specify the provisions and the ambiguities observed in application, while ensuring transparency in the granting of state aid, regulation of clear rules, and in particular strengthening the capacity of the Commission, which needs to be effectively applied by law to contribute to fostering economic development. The Commission will manage the State aid register as a single electronic database and the register will contain information on the application, i.e. the donor, the beneficiary of State aid, the legal basis for the assignment, type, instrument and amount of State aid granted. The amendments include introducing a clear definition of what is considered state aid and what is not, and under what conditions, as a clear indication of the instruments for granting state aid. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support the proposed law in the day of voting, since its adoption will establish adequate control of state aid and transparency in its allocation, it will prevent individual economic operators from being placed in a privileged position, i.e. the level playing field for all market participants. In this way, free competition is strengthened, more healthy business conditions are ensured, which encourages the entry and remaining of business entities on the market of the Republic of Serbia and allows for its economic development, of which consumers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61496	Thank you, Mr. Bag. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61497	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, the Honorable President of the Ministry of Finance, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us today extremely important laws: the draft law on state aid control, the draft law on accounting and the draft law on audit. This is another set of laws aimed at preparing the Serbian administration on the way to EU membership negotiations. The State aid system is institutionally regulated by the 2009 State Aid Control Act, which regulates the general conditions and procedure of State aid control in order to protect free competition on the market, applying the principle of market economy and fostering economic development, ensuring transparency in the granting of State aid, as well as the enforcement of commitments under the concluded international contracts containing State aid provisions. However, nearly ten years of application of this law has shown a number of shortcomings and has pointed to the need to create a modernised regulation that will be in line with the current amendments to our legislation, as well as EU legislation. In 2018, the government of the Republic of Serbia formed a Working Group to decide on a proposal for a new regulation and it was found that there are a large number of members that need to be amended and therefore have joined the creation of a new State Aid Control Act. One of the main reasons for the change is to coordinate with the definition of state aid from the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, by introducing so-called "EU" the fourth condition, i.e. the mandatory impact on trade with the EU. The current legal solution sees state aid as a public expenditure or a reduction of public income, which in a selective way enables a more favourable position on the market, resulting in distortions or dangers of market distortions. With the introduction of the fourth conditions, certain incentives will no longer be seen by the commission as state aid because they cannot affect trade with the EU. For example, incentives for development only in local self-government, when we talk about infrastructure projects concerning the construction of water or sewerage in a specific municipality or city, cannot be considered as state aid anymore, because they have no direct influence on the EU. In European practice, it is often examined as the first criterion whether certain aid can affect trade between Member States, which is, in our case, an impact on trade with the EU. According to the new definition, the state aid provider is always the Republic of Serbia, i.e. an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government through the authorities. The beneficiary of State aid shall be any legal or natural person who uses State aid in the exercise of the activity of the production or transport of goods, the provision of services on the market, in any form whatsoever. Therefore, in order to be considered State aid, it must be selective, i.e. for the effect of bringing certain economic operators into a more favourable position than competitors. The State Aid Control Commission will be an independent body and a new legal solution will clearly list the rules under which the Commission will work in the coming period. I will discuss the details a little more about the problems the Commission had in the previous period, and precisely because the previous legal solution did not clearly provide for what the Commission should do, in which way clearly specified powers to monitor the state aid granted, reporting and, of course, to give certain criminal provisions. The procedure before the Commission in the next period is a special administrative procedure to be implemented so that the proposal introduces the submission of regulations to binding opinions, which has not been the case so far, while individual acts will be assessed in the procedure, which is why the Commission will adopt solutions. In situations where the State aid granted is suspected to benefit from a contrary solution or Commission opinion, i.e. if it can be assumed to be non-compliant, the Commission will assess exceptional compliance in the context of the control fee, which is in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. In order to reduce the number of ex post controls and introduce an unambiguous obligation to report state aid, the rights of the parties, but also of interested parties, have been further strengthened, with mandatory co-operation with the Commission being introduced. So far, that co-operation has worked a little harder. In exceptional circumstances where appropriate data cannot be obtained in a different way, the Commission may announce to the State user that specific data is required to make available in its premises. The recovery of State aid granted continues to constitute a fundamental measure for the establishment of competition, which eliminates market anomalies resulting from the grant of unauthorized aid. If certain aid is shown to be incompatible or used against the solution, the Commission shall, at any time, and no later than ten years from the allocation, order the refund of such aid. Unlike the existing situation, where there is a difficulty in accessing data for the production of annual reports or the processing of cumulation, with the aim of making it easier to account for the remaining amount of State aid that a specific user may receive, the applicants are obliged to keep records of the basis by which the Commission will be assigned, species and instruments, by entering the above mentioned data into the central aid register, which represents an electronic database, on which maintenance will be taken care of by the Commission. It also established the obligation of the applicant to provide the Commission with a plan to adopt a State aid scheme for the next financial year, which I consider extremely important, because the timeframe for adoption, which allows for a timely awareness of the adoption of all the grounds for granting state aid to non-scheduled users, as well as the clear planning of the donor when it comes to spending public funds. It is very important that the Commission will have the opportunity to conduct sectoral analyses, which so far has not been possible and is an important instrument of monitoring. The sectoral analysis of the aid granted should provide insight into the impact of concrete state aid on the development of certain industrial branches and the creation of specific labour interests, and to what extent state aid has affected market development and competition. Only if we have feedback on the results of the state aid granted, I believe that in the next period we will be able to make the right decisions and encourage those industries that are responsible for the allocations. The reason for the introduction of State aid control is considered to be too much in the prohibition of the so-called so-called ban. Subsidy races between EU Member States, as this would allow the strongest economies they have and the most resources to increasingly encourage their own economic operators than the weaker economies. The essence of the rules is to establish a fair competition for all market participants regardless of the geographical definition, i.e. the origin of the economic operator. The establishment of adequate State aid control and transparency in its allocation prevents certain economic operators from being placed in a privileged position, i.e. creating equal operating conditions for all market participants. In this way, free competition is strengthened and more healthy business conditions are ensured, encouraging the entry and remaining of business entities on the market of the Republic of Serbia and enabling its economic development to benefit consumers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of this proposal, because the adoption of a new law will implement some of the European Commission's most significant recommendations from the current annual progress reports, as well as the obligations arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The current accounting law of 2013 governing the matter of corporate accounting is partly in line with the new Directive 2013/34 on annual financial reports, consolidated financial reports and related reports of certain types of companies. This law is not in line with the new EU rules which form the basis for regulating financial reporting. All of this pointed to the need for further harmonisation of domestic legislation in this area with EU legal assets. On the one hand, we have objections from accounting agencies to new regulations, which will be more demanding with regard to further training of persons involved in this business. On the other hand, we have solutions that this law provides, which are in the interest of the economy, primarily when we talk about the terms of financial reporting according to international standards that will be easier and cheaper for corporations. During the public debate on the draft accounting law, the main focus was the part that drew attention to the conditions for enrollment in the public register of accounting service providers. One of the conditions for registration will be for at least one person to be permanently employed in a legal person and to have a professional call from the field of accounting and audit acquired by a member of the International Federation of Accountants. In practice, it means that accountants and accountants who learned the job in courses or training, as we followed something in the press and in the media, will have to go back to school. Of course, this is the kind of proposal that the accountant has come across and will have to work intensively in order for the accountants to have their license, which is very important. Currently in Serbia, there are two professional organisations that are members of the International Federation of Accountants – the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia and the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, while there are 177 in the world of more than 110 countries. The obligation to hold a professional title for an accountant is in line with the practice of developed countries, as well as with requirements regarding the prevention of money laundering and this will significantly contribute to improving the quality of the financial report. I agree with the expert that the evaluation did not measure expertise and knowledge. In practice there are accountants who are not economic professions, but behind them is one long-standing work and experience. On the other hand, a graduate economist without experience is certainly no more professional than someone who has long - term business references behind him. It is the position of the Association of Accountants and Accountants of Serbia. Accounting is a trade that can work very well even though you are not an economic profession. However, I must say that in the previous period, the accountant worked very hard to respond to the new requirements and amendments regarding reporting. None of them are in the interest of not respecting certain legal solutions, because they place their signature on financial reports and are responsible for the law, and is also responsible to the employer for doing their jobs. However, standards of education due to frequent changes in financial reporting, tax regulations and standards have been defined that an accountant's profession, as well as doctors and engineers, must perfect its knowledge, which is fine. They will be included in a program of permanent training where during the year at certain seminars, conferences, through certain educations that will be available to them, they will be able to further perfect their knowledge based on acquired points, confirm their license every year. In terms of international standards, this proposal is perfectly correct, as much as it represents a particular problem for bookkeepers. I'm sure it will also require certain financial resources, because you have to pay for the quotations for participation in these meetings, new literature, but the effect that results is immeasurable. We will have people who are trained professionally, who follow their profession properly, in accordance with international standards and, of course, will facilitate the work of auditors who in the previous period had a lot of objections to these financial reports precisely because of lack of compliance and lack of knowledge. It is very important that the transitional provisions of the draft law require legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, to provide evidence, within three years of the date of entry into force of this law, that they have employees, minimum persons with professional calling in the field of accounting or audit acquired by a professional organisation of a member of the International Federation of Accountants. Surely this transition period will significantly benefit all legal entities currently, i.e. The agencies, they find it in some kind of trouble, but they'll have plenty of time to remove it. The new bill provides for adapting accounting rules to the economic power and size of legal persons, and it is very important that by introducing opportunities for more legal persons, including micro and small legal persons, to apply international standards of financial reporting, when drawing up regular annual financial reports, to facilitate the assembly of consolidated financial reports. In this case, the parent and dependent legal persons apply the same basis for drawing up individual financial reports and there is no need for, for example, a small legal person to draw up individual financial reports. One of the important changes is the regulation of new criteria and new limits for determining the size of legal entities and groups of legal entities. The suspension of the obligation to submit two sets of reports – a report for statistical and other needs and a regular annual report – provides for one deadline for the submission of regular annual financial reports, and that is March 31st. So far, economic operators have had a problem with the deadline, end of February, which represents a nightmare for both accountants and businesses, and always during that period, the accountant works 24 hours and the economy has some problems. There's always some other information missing. In this way, it will come out significantly in the face of the economy, and I think this proposal is extremely important for all economic operators. It has repeatedly pointed out the need for education and certification of persons keeping business books and drawing up financial reports by the audit institution. As regards the Law on Audit, the proposed legislative solution should remove the non-compliance of existing rules in the area of revision with the relevant EU legislation, to largely harmonize the practice of audit in Serbia with existing practice in EU Member States. This draft law gives the Commission the power to exercise public oversight over the conduct of the audit, whose operation will focus on the protection of public interest in the work of the Chamber, audit companies, independent auditors and licensed audit firms. The Commission and the finance ministry will have ultimate responsibility for the quality of the audit in Serbia. The delegation of competences with regard to quality control of audits from the chamber of authorised auditors, as well as public oversight of the performance of the audit, the competence of the Securities Commission with value will simplify and speed up the control and sanctions procedure for audit companies and auditors, due to non-compliance with the provisions of the laws and rules of the profession. The draft audit law provides for the minimum format of the audit report and the transparency report in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. The proposed legislative solutions, in addition to harmonising with EU liquids, have one fundamental common goal, which is how you, Mr. Ministers, in the opening exhibition and cited, are to improve the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. For all of us, this is extremely important and very important to appreciate the efforts made in the making of these laws. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support all three draft laws that are under discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61498	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61499	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Mrs. Zivkovic, only two things I would like to mention, and regarding your presentations, which are very important to me. Maybe the citizens of Serbia didn't fully understand. So state aid, and when we talk about state aid, this whole system actually protects less developed countries than more developed countries. Because imagine if you don't have a state aid control system in all countries that it's the same, then of course some Germany could give a lot more money to help a company than it could, for example, Serbia. And it's just that it's a good thing that we, our methodology, bring our standards in line with theirs, that allow us to, given our economic strength, and help more, which is fair, compared to, say, more developed countries. And finally, another thing I wanted to mention, you said earlier about the Accounting and Certificate Act. So all the certificates, the existing ones, that people have that profession, are still valid. They've been since the '90s and over 2000s, people have been getting their certificates. So those certificates still apply. On that side, we open for new ones, those who are just going to deal with this profession, the obligation to be licensed, and in that way we have a unique database of those who do this profession and do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61500	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61501	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on today's joint principled search on behalf of the SPS Group, I will state my position on these laws, but before I begin the discussion, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I can say that we will vote in favour of this set of laws. What we need to point out is that today, at least as far as the SPS is concerned, we are adopting very important laws, whose realisation will solve a good part of the problem that is plagued by our economy and our society at all. These are laws that call for responsibility, accuracy, reliability, which should be the beginning of establishing trust as a pillar of a society. If there is a deeper analysis of what these laws adopt, which have been passed in a truly comprehensive process in which the relevant expert public participated, it may be best to start with the Accounting Act. If something has attracted attention during this relatively short public debate, it is the conditions for enrollment in the public register of accounting service providers. Whether we have a triumph of the profession or a restriction of the market, the question arises. In practice, the rule of law means that all accountants, accountants who have learned the job in courses and training, will now have to renovate the material and take the exam to get a work license. Currently in Serbia, there are two professional organisations that are members of the international Federation of Accountants - the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia and the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, while there are 177 from more than 110 countries in the world. It's a good thing we have a transitional period, it's a good thing we're raising the standard of profession, although standards in practice can't raise any training but build a profession, where creativity is not a virtue. The very obligation to own a professional accounting officer is in line with the practice of developed countries, as well as with requirements regarding the prevention of money laundering, and this will significantly contribute to improving the quality of financial reporting. The EU directives themselves do not provide for this obligation, and transitional provisions require legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, to provide evidence within three years of the date of entry into force of this law of whether they have employed a minimum of one person with a professional calling in the field of accounting and audit acquired by a professional organisation. In accordance with international standards of education, professional accountants will be certified by passing examinations for professional calling, subject to the possession of a specific practical experience. International standards of education, due to frequent changes in financial reports, tax regulations and standards, have defined that professional accountants are, for example, doctors, lawyers, engineers, notaries and other professions, acting in accordance with the principle of continuous education, i.e., for the sake of public interest, are obliged to maintain their level of knowledge and expertise. In addition to the change, which was virtually loudly accompanied by a part of the profession that will have to prove its expertise, key provisions are, and I will list some of them, adapting accounting rules in the economic power and size of legal persons, introducing opportunities for more legal persons, including micro and small legal persons to apply international standards of financial reporting when drawing up regular annual reports, thus facilitating the assembly of consolidated financial reports and, in that case, the parent and dependent legal persons apply the same basis for drawing up individual financial reports and there is no need to, for example. a small legal person shall draw up individual financial reports in accordance with one regulation, i.e. A basis for drawing up which is not an international standard of financial reporting, and that for the purpose of consolidation must be drawn up in accordance with IFRSs. All this will affect further cost reduction for legal persons in relation to financial reporting, facilitate their business and ensure that their financial reporting is more transparent and reliable. The draft law provides for one deadline for the delivery of regular annual financial reports, which will include a statistical report, for public publication until 31 March of the current year. This will allow the economy sufficient time to deliver one set of reports unlike the current law, where the deadline for the submission of data for statistical and other needs was late February and the deadline for the submission of regular annual reports on 30 June. The deadline for the review of financial reports was left with the exception to submit the audit report and to follow the documentation by 30 June for the previous year, i.e. until 31 July, if it is a review of consolidated financial reports. When it comes to reviewing, I have to say it's the audit that tells us if the accountants did their job, but the managers acted in accordance with the law and good business practices. The revision is important, I dare say, and how many institutions of the Court of Appeal in the area of law and it is therefore very important that we step forward with all the good European practices, of course, and in this area. Above all, these solutions should reduce incentives for those parts of the business world that, above all, see opportunities for creative interpretation of regulations, rather than for creative demand for profits on the market. We will look for solutions that are like this or like this and point out that the Revision Act introduces more obligations. At the same time, when considering dynamics, we must bear in mind that some solutions are very easy to accept, while the development of institutions takes time, although it may seem that some institutions are needlessly expensive or bureaucratic and that we should wait as long as we can, we do not think so. Same thing with internal audits. Perhaps in Serbia, which today is a land economy, in which ownership and management are often the same, even in medium and large enterprises, internal audits seem to be imposed. However, it is time to change Serbia and there will be more and more companies that will have an interest in working without external coercion. Many companies who did not realize how difficult the divorce of management and ownership was were deeply regretted not having a good internal control system. The law deals much more with key issues that create a professional profession for business ethics, honesty and trust. The audit isn't a expense, we have to figure it out, and we need to get under it, which has to be paid. The audit is an institution that creates trust in a single society, and trust lowers transaction costs more than 100 decrees, orders, apparitions or laws. The audit costs, but the revision brings benefits that are not immediately tangible, and later they are taken for granted. We want Serbia to just be a country where, for a major failure, as it has done in its own time, and this is what I did and when the previous review law was on the agenda, the failure that Arthur Anderson made in time, one of the companies in the world's big five-story audits, is losing all credibility and the possibility to repeat the failure. Each of us would like the trust, honesty, ethics and honor of all participants to be accepted as principles and that there is no need for control costs, but the world is not like that, and all these principles have become dominant in a number of countries just because they were followed by just the strong institutions of independent control. I'd like to brief you on the objectives of the Audit Act. I must say that the objective of amending the law, above all, is to bring domestic legislation into line with EU regulations, directives and recommendations. These changes were mostly made that way. Another important aspect of amending the law is the removal of the observed shortcomings in the existing legal solution. The basic paper of the Audit Act is that the supervisory function in the future will be carried out by the Securities Commission, and so far has been carried out by the Chamber of Public Auditors, all in order to provide as much independence and objectivity as possible. New reports have been introduced to refer to the Commission an internal act that should be adopted and similar, which is everything according to EU directives. It is also described in more detail the scope of the audits. Special attention is paid to improving independence through the prevention of potential conflicts of interest. The internal organisation of the Audit Society as well as the conditions for providing other services to audit clients has been regulated. In addition, more detailed prohibitions for the Audit Society, members of the audit team and related persons, as well as the system of sanctions, have been regulated. The Revision Act should result in an improvement in the basis for raising the quality of practice, where it is the first but never the only step in a quality legal solution. The effects of any law depend, not only on normal solutions, but rather on the application of the law in practice after adoption. In the name of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted two amendments, and then in particular we will be a little bit lenient about these amendments to see if there is room and whether it is realistic that a little, in a way, correct some, not to say mistakes, but perhaps we have a different view of these members. In short, I would also like to say about this third bill in this joint principled search, which is the proposal for a state aid control law, and to point out that an effective state aid control system is one of the key steps towards EU accession. Amendments to the existing State Aid Control Act are necessary in order to ensure, improve the instruments available to the Commission, as well as its better structure and organisational structure, finally meeting the criteria for opening negotiations under Chapter 8 relating to operational independence. Chapter 8 precisely because of the part about State aid, in addition to Chapter 23 and Chapter 24, belongs at least to my personal opinion, to the most difficult for the worse. It has been 10 years since the State Aid Control Commission was formed, but the body is not operationally independent, although it is a commitment that Serbia has made to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. For the purposes of Article 73(4), The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as it stands, this body has not since its founding, we must say, made no decision on illegal state aid, no solution to the recovery of illegal state aid, which was a strong argument in favour of its independence. The task of state aid control authorities is to provide all companies with equal operating conditions by ensuring that State interventions do not affect the uniform functioning of the internal market. An effective system requires collective effort involving all participants. The operational and independent state aid control body is essential. However, in order to be successful, it is necessary to have full support and awareness of aid providers and other regulatory bodies and natural societies, both users and competitors. It is also important, in addition to the Commission's operational independence, to encourage, support and promote state aid, which develop economies, good state aids that improve the growth and development of society, which make the best use of taxpayers' money. Above all, fair competition is the basis of market economy. With that, it should be competition in the first place, not state aid. Adequate control of state aid is a prerequisite for free market and protection of competition, which benefits consumers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your attention. Perhaps at the end of the debate, I will include giving some final summary of all this after this debate I hear from other colleagues who are authorized in front of their parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61502	I thank my colleague Radenkovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61503	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, today we are discussing a set of three economic laws. In fact, the proposal on three economic laws. On the draft law on State aid control, the draft law on accounting and the draft law on audit. Of course, after yesterday's debate on the budget and fiscal progress of the Serbian state, these laws seem to be more or less medialy almost irrelevant. These laws do not deserve excessive media attention and look different in the public debate, but it is only a trick. These laws are essential laws, talking about the arrangement of Serbia's state, its functioning, its prospects for the future. It's indisputable that it's only one small narrow segment of people, people who do accounting, and that's how it's supposed to be. Basically, it seems to me that these laws are actually much more. These laws are a decision to norm or to freak out, a decision to where we want to go and how we want to behave. It is not disputed that economic laws involve these kinds of respect for international standards and European directives, and Serbia should certainly do so. When we talk about this law on state aid control, then it is clear that we are in fact harmonising Chapter 8 of the negotiations and we are saying that the European Commission has told us that we have to control state aid and we are doing it. We are practically changing the law that already exists, making others, making the commission completely independent, objective and independent, on the basis of recommendations made by other institutions, not only by the European Commission, such as the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency. At the same time, when we form this commission, in fact, we use our old Serbian mechanism of functioning and forming independent institutions, such as the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency. There is no dilemma, respect for the EU directive we are trying to close Chapter eight. But these laws are important because they provide space for us to achieve key economic issues, and they are somehow, I think, content here. Economic assistance is one of the key topics to be discussed in the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia has been failing for too long, for 30 years to get out of the economic transformation process, we have not yet completed the transition from one system to another. It is perfectly normal that the state of Serbia has an economic interest, that its economy is growing, developing, and this is difficult to do, especially to control macroeconomic parameters in conditions where there are serious cyclical crises and you do not have state aid. The situation in the world today is completely different from the one we remember. If you look at Russian President Vladimir Putin's statement today, then you have an announcement of leaving the dollar, which is certainly a key thing in global economic relations, causing everything you talked about yesterday, trade wars, currency wars. Protectiveism today in the world dominates more or less. Serbia cannot be beyond all these economic flows. It is indisputable that we must respect EU directives, but we must also take care of our own economic interests. It frees all EU directives, if Serbia does not grow economically and develops, and Serbia is growing economically and developing. Almost the entire 19th and 20th centuries can fit into a picture of a lake moving between two shores between the idea of funding your own economy and helping them to ensure economic growth and development, and on the other hand to release a completely free market with the same goal, to ensure economic growth and development. Serbia must, as a small country, which has not completed a growing and developing transformation process, combine both the mechanism and the other, must help its businesses, grow and develop, make things different, but at the same time respect normal economic standards. When you tell ministers that this bill is in line with the EU directive, that the EU is doing this to small countries, to protect small countries from big countries, I fully agree with you, but the big countries, Mr. Minister, have had a period of time when they invested in their economy, have given great advantages to their businesses to become large, dominant on the market. We can't talk about unity on the market if we haven't had the same economic past, and we haven't had it. If we don't have the same economic past, then it's hard to believe that we have unity on the market and the same economic conditions. Practice has shown in Serbia that the economic aid we have done, which we are doing to our businesses, gives results. When you talk about the help we are doing, we essentially see it best at the unemployment level, if it hadn't been for helping domestic and foreign companies attract investment, we wouldn't have a 10.3% unemployment rate today, we wouldn't have a 6.4% export growth, that's the essence of functioning. Of course, Serbia must respect European directives, and therefore form a commission, and we will respect it, but we must certainly take care of our own economic interests. When we talk about the second law, about the Accounting Act, then it's essentially the story of history. Accounting is over 5,000 years old. The first forms of accounting date back to somewhere in Mesopotamia, and essentially represent a simple form of accounting. In time, they changed, as we know accounting today, from the 14th century. Double accounting is the essence of functioning. Accounting as a record actually enables all those interested to keep an eye on the functioning of the company, both auditors and employees, to provide different types of information necessary for operation. Accounting is essentially based on several key economic principles. These principles change, they become different depending on technology, but fundamental accounting remains the same over the centuries. This law, in my opinion Minister, concerns 93% of small, or micro-enterprises. It's the law for them. The point of my interest is essentially these small, micro-enterprises, their economic growth and development. Licensing represents a key economic topic, i.e. in a public debate, although it is the essence of the economic law of the e-facture. We are based on the Law on Electronic Documentation, Identification and Services, which we have brought in 2017 and since 2017 we have applied it, practically entered the process. The e-facture is the entry of Serbian accounting and Serbian economy into the 21st century. This is all something old, 19th century, e-facture - 21st century. On dozens of advantages, the key thing, from VAT control, low costs, keeping more effective control, to the bizarre that one trustee can have on the basis of software records whether or not an electronic invoice has been received. I think that's the essence of this law. Now, the key topic has opened on the basis of the license. There may be a need to discuss licensing, not to import licensing specifically in the draft of this law, but generally about licensing. Licensing has never been initiated by users of services, always by associations that are businessly interested in licensing. Licensing is essentially a restriction and a ban on entering the branch. Licensing almost always leads to monopoly and oligopolis. Licensing almost always calls into question the school system, but licensing in areas such as accounting, lawyers, such as providing health services, is a world standard and there is no dilemma. We, in essence, make licensing the least possible. We also forget to go back to 93% of small, or micro-enterprises that won't need a license if they own their own business books. You have dozens of advantages that are important for licensing. First, the records will be more accurate, the records will be more accurate, what we forget is that based on statistics that indicate tax administration, you have a large number of practical problems that arise from a license error. It'll all be settled by this law. We, Mr. Minister, went into the process of dealing with some different kinds of business in the early 1990s. Let me remind you, in the early 1990s, we bought some personal computers in 286 and made simple business programs for accounting management. So these were some beginnings in private business in Serbia. Over time, we progressed, bought newer software, grew and developed. We today, by this law, which is perfectly fine, support the licensing of business books related to agencies. Actually, we license people. Mr. Minister, I think I am also free to propose a proposal that I think fits the needs of modern Serbian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. In practice, I suggest that the Ministry of Finance develop a business program that we share for free, primarily micro-enterprises. This means that in this way we will speed up, simplify, allow these people to keep their own records. Because accounting in primary forms, as well as for micro-enterprises, is more of an IT problem than a knowledge problem in the field of accounting. Accounting is good because of the progress of technology, it is practically becoming a translation, i.e. a mere typing of information, since 2020 only re-imaging information that is important for operation. This system can function and can look completely different because we have mechanisms, such as tax administrations that do education together with the Chamber of Commerce. When laws change, or 90% of laws change, as far as tax administrations are concerned, you have an education that is done by the Chamber of Commerce and the Tax Administration. Imagine now in these educations, sharing free IT programs for keeping basic forms of business books for people who don't have to have a license, or micro-enterprises, because they can save themselves money. Of course, there should also be a system of dual education and colleges, because transparency in accounting is one of the key factors for the safer and more precise management of the Serbian economy. These three laws actually speak of precision, the need for Serbia to respect European standards and international economic standards. But these laws essentially mean that Serbia with this record can make economic growth and development possible. These three laws mean that, both in the follow-up and in the time that comes, we will adapt our functioning to economic laws, which will essentially enable higher rates of economic growth and development, which is the essence of the functioning of this government. Of course, Mr. Minister, that you have the full support of the SNS, not only of these three laws, but of the law that will come in the next period of time and that the SNS will vote for this set of laws in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61504	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61505	Thank you very much. Dear Members, one thing you have stated is very important to me, and I want to clarify it so that we will all be, as we would say, on the same side, about licensing, about the necessity of licensing and possible monopoly on this matter. So it's precisely because entrepreneurs, so companies dealing with the provision of accounting services, I just said that when you look at the Business Registers Agency, you have hundreds of them who don't have any employees, and they have revenues, so they deal with these services. So it's necessary to have someone, one employee who has a license from an authorised accountant, because that's the only way you can control or ensure that the service that this organization provides is a service that is of appropriate quality. This is particularly important for these small and micro-enterprises, because it is precisely those most, to say the most, who outsource accounting services and thus guarantee them that the service they receive and which they pay by standards and by quality behind which, ultimately, this license stands and stands for this law. As regards licensing, since there were a lot of comments on the subject, the law implies that licences are issued by those organisations that are members of the International Federation of Accountants. So you don't have a monopoly. You have at this time the Chamber of Authorised Auditors and the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia as two members. If a third, fourth, fifth, sixth occurs, you will have an even greater number of institutions or organizations where you can be licensed. At this point, there are 178 organisations or institutions in the world that are members of this international organisation. So you can get a license with all 178, you have one in Republika Srpska, one even in Montenegro, if I'm not mistaken, wherever. It's completely open, because that was our intensity. In some previous law, you had a monopoly. We wanted to avoid that monopoly. So under the appropriate criteria, which are clearly defined, you can get a license in a large number of institutions, 178 in the whole world, two in us. If anyone else in the meantime becomes a member of the International Association of Accountants, then so is yours. That's exactly how we wanted to keep the level of quality, and on the other hand, let's say look -- if someone doesn't want it here, we can do it here or on the third side, wherever. So we had these comments during the public debate about this law. I think this is the best solution that gives professionals in this area the option of choice and that's most important, with the same standard of quality. That is exactly the standard defined by the fact that you are members of the International Federation of Accountants. What is particularly important is the introduction of these work permits to these entrepreneurs or companies involved and the register will be run by the Agency for Business Registers, and the Chamber of Authorised Auditors will issue those licences, precisely because it was founded in 2006 and has public authority. The state founded and then you have as state control over that process. I think that when you fit into a picture of this profession's functioning in the future, you get our clear intention that with the control of who's doing this profession, because at this point, you see, many of them are preparing these accounting reports and you don't even know who's preparing, whether they have knowledge or have no knowledge, that objective criteria introduce order in this profession and, in such a way, give users the right quality of services, on the other hand, and that some recommendations and the European Commission, perhaps even more important Manivals in such a way, to promote our country on the prevention of money laundering and the fight against terrorism. Where we've done great things in the last year and a half, since I'm the president of that coordination body on behalf of the Government of Serbia, a few days ago we had a meeting, so these amendments to the Accounting Act and the Audit Act allow us to have positive reviews at the Manival Assembly in the next December. So we move forward, we are not lagging behind, we do not want to be the subject of criticism, but we want to solve things in advance, as other countries do, to make the whole system work transparently, and the quality of the service is standard and guaranteed by applying these licences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61506	Thank you, Minister. We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the law in points 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61507	Thank you. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, each type of arrangement of a particular system is indeed commendable, especially as this set of laws that serves the business sector and enables it to build its career and speed up its business on fair grounds of equal opportunities. We are witnessing that in the previous period, especially by 2012, we had really big problems with coordination and creating equal opportunities for all those people who deal with private businesses. I am saying this because I come from an environment where the private sector is extremely important and the retail sector is a key driver for the launch of overall economic development. So, any kind of legal-formal provision that will allow those people who truly deal in quality, sacrificed and committed to private business to have this system arranged or for any praise and will receive support from the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. On the other hand, it is also very important for the Audit Act, especially as we have heard before that part about aid control, because we are witnessing that in certain situations there have been very many abuses of assistance, various affairs are falling. For example, there is still no explanation to the end of the affair of about 300 heifers that were needed or allocated to the Municipality of Sjenica when the mayor abused a number of other affairs, because it somehow gives the impression that citizens are not directly benefiting from what is prescribed to help from the budget or other types of donations, but only those who are in power and those who abuse power and thus create a mistrust of ordinary citizenship in the system of institutions. Of course, I mention this example as one of the drastic examples, but there are a lot of such examples, specifically perhaps the most in these border areas that have somehow been left to themselves. Here I mention the special municipality of Tutin, which used every type of aid and donation to the end only in the particular interests, and not for those end-users, i.e. for ordinary citizens and those to whom this assistance is actually meant. Therefore, I believe that these legal frameworks that uphold the rules of the game will also help simply what is intended for citizens to reach the end users, and that those who abuse, whether part of the government is local or others, will be sanctioned, i.e. prevent them from turning the course in any way and helping where they or their interests are appropriate. For these reasons, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party support this set of legal solutions and, of course, as always, will support everything that is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61508	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, we did not have the honor of having the minister answer any of our questions. I ask a question to all of us, as well as to the citizens of Serbia -- what is the purpose of this public debate, if the minister does not want to answer any opposition MP's question, if he only wants to hear the praises of the ruling assembly majority? So I repeat the questions I asked yesterday. First, when will you publish a list of the 100 biggest taxpayers? Are there companies among the taxpayers who perform works on infrastructure facilities financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is there a national frequency among debtors? Can we let national frequencies use television stations that don't pay tax obligations? What about the public sector's obligations to settle within 60 days if one of the participants is a public sector? Whether these obligations apply to farmers, if related today is October 3rd, is St. Yevstatia, a rare fame in the Serbian people. I take the opportunity to congratulate those who celebrate, but it would be good for you to inform the farmers in Serbia for St. Yevstan when they will receive outstanding incentives from 2018? Because in the meantime, you of these same farmers charged taxes and contributions three times, February 15th, May 15th and August 15th. And if they haven't paid, you charge them interest on interest every day at the end of the 15th in the middle of the quarter. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you -- how much did all the public institutions from the government, and to the agencies of state-owned enterprises, pay off in the name of incentives as the Commissioner for Equality, Associations of Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and Transgenders taught me the other day, right? That's what you said, I didn't say, quote the Commissioner's words for equality. Also, I ask you, Mr. Minister, how can you suggest a budget rebalance in which there is a smaller amount for socially endangered groups, such as student standard, student standard, talent subsidies? Well, based on who are we going to develop? Based on the average, those who participate in reality programs or on those that are exceptional in their field, and young talents are certainly the most perspective for the development of this country. Also, Mr. Minister, I expect you to finally state as the former mayor who with the phantoms committed the demolition of the Savamala? If you, as mayor of the time, did not know or couldn't find out what right you were in the position of minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61510	Mr. Chevarlitch, just a request to return to the agenda. So far we have had a constructive discussion and you ask questions...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61511	Well, I'm asking her questions in the context of this, what's the audit law for, if I can't get any information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61512	Mr. Chevarlich, just a moment, you'll get your word, you've got 40 seconds left. You ask questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays, according to the Rules of Procedure on Labour or the last Thursday of the month when the Government is here answering questions, and now you are talking about the proposal of the State Aid Control Act, the draft Accounting Act and the proposal of the Audit Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61513	It's Thursday, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61514	Well, why didn't you ask a question during the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61515	Because I have no right, as an independent non-partisan MP to ask questions, and that is the problem of the Rules of Procedure which none of us who are independent MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61516	Mr. Ševarlic, we are not going to overpower myself while I am running the Assembly and I am not going to let you behave like this, and I find it strange that as an MP who has been here for a very long time, but here, for the fourth year, if I am not mistaken, you have not studied the Rules of Procedure enough, you can ask the question by written means, you cannot as an independent MP. No, you can't argue with me, you can get another 40 seconds to talk about the agenda. Please, go ahead, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61517	I ask you, Mr. Minister, to answer me, since this is about the budget, is it, or is there a legend that in this country, once pensioners were able to live on -- what percentage of today's pensioners can live on pension, given the minimal value of the consumer basket? That's the basic thing to worry about when we talk about success or not success. Also, how many employees can live and settle the minimum consumer basket on their salary? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61518	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister, Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61519	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, to answer these few questions. Otherwise, the reason I didn't answer yesterday, because the questions to be honest, I didn't understand. I remember the question, you said – why don't we get rid of the IMF? Why are you running away from the system? We're increasing the budget deficit by 90%. To be honest, I really don't know how to answer these questions, and that's why I didn't answer them. On the specific issues you've asked and which, in my opinion, you can replicate afterwards, makes sense, when we're going to publish a list of the biggest tax debtors. As you know by law that obligation exists, once a year that list is published and I believe that in the next few weeks, surely by the end of the year, and that legal obligation will be fulfilled. Well, then look who's on that list, and then we can discuss it afterwards. As regards subsidies for farmers, 160 000 requests were made for subsidies, all of them were paid, except for 960 items which are being supplemented or currently being debated by the complaint. So, out of 160,000, 960 has not yet been paid, everything else has been paid, according to yesterday's data from the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as the legend of pensioners is concerned, I think that unlike your understanding of pensions and the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, we are a little more responsible and careful on this subject. I've said it a few times and I'm going to say it again, it wasn't even easy fiscal consolidation, it was brave measures, but it led to this situation that we have to choose bankruptcy or heavy measures, just the ones you're working with, Mr. Chevarlic. If they hadn't had irresponsible measures and what they've been doing since 2008 and beyond, and taking expensive loans, and negative growth rates, and high deficits, and high life despite the global crisis, and precisely thanks to the expensive loans that led us to bankruptcy almost 2012/2013. years not to say Sinisha Mali but also to credit rating agencies that were lowering credit ratings and that's what I was talking about yesterday, our country. So you should ask them about legends and what the minimum cost of work is. I'll remind you again, the government's decision is increasing from 27,022 dinars to 30,022 dinars, which is absolutely the biggest increase in the minimum labour price ever since 1 January 2020. I can also read to you what the minimum labour prices were in years when these were run by the state. I'll tell you that in 2012, the minimum labour price was about 16,000 dinars, and now we're going to 30. How did you solve the problem of people and citizens of Serbia in 2012 with 16,000 dinars, and how did I at 30. And that's not enough, and I agree, we have agreement and talks with the trade unions that their minimum labour price is equal to the consumer basket, minimal in the shortest time period. You have to do this on the basis of responsible economic policy, based on economic indicators, based on how your economy grows, not to bring down that and that stability that's hard to gain in the past few years of denial we've been through. I said yesterday, the worst people are behind us, the hardest measures are behind us, we go ahead, we don't talk about what some people are saying and they talked about or they brought us up to a few years ago about the deficit, about public debt, about negative growth rates, about huge unemployment. Why didn't you, Mr. Chevarlic, ask 2011, 2012, those who made the unemployment rate of 25.9%? We're now dropping the unemployment rate to 10.3%, it's going to be one-digit in a few months and we're fighting for every new job. Our themes have changed. We're talking about raising wages in the public sector, third year in a row. We are talking about an increase in pensions and one-time assistance this year and a 1 January increase next year. Slowly we move forward and slowly rise. In December, unfortunately for you, there will be an average salary in Serbia of over 500 euros, what President Vukic promised, a few years ago, we are fulfilling, and not by taking the loan set, so we raised our salaries and then, in two, three, five years, our children will have to pay our debts as the previous government left us, but on the basis of surpluses in the budget, based on a stable growth rate, based on the creation of new jobs, based on more taxes and contributions from employment, because we are growing the number of employees, and I told you yesterday, you had a chance to hear it. So, your obligations regarding your questions that you have asked, the Republic of Serbia will meet. If you don't see Serbia's economic progress, I can't help you much, but I can help the citizens of Serbia. Some things we may not have done well, but we say we didn't do well, but we generally go forward. We are not satisfied with the 500-euro salary in December, but is greater than 360 euros, which was just a few years ago, which you left behind. We want it to be 550, 600, 700 and 800, of course, as our economy grows. But, not by political decisions, we're going to take expensive loans, so all of a sudden we're going to raise salaries and pensions, it's not how someone's going to pay them off, but based on those parameters that define the economic policy and economic growth of a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61520	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Mr. Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, your information that the Agrarian Payments Authority only owes 900 and some registered agricultural holdings, unsettled obligations because there were data supplemental problems or something like that, is not true. Check the data, Milan Andric, from the village of Planjani, for him I asked through the form of parliamentary questions. I didn't get an answer, but I got an answer through the form of a question based on the law on the availability of public information that I don't have the right to ask for information on the agricultural land concerned because I don't have the authority signed by an old public notary, which I can respect. But Milan Andric only after my intervention received a solution to how many unpaid incentives for bovine throats, reported in 2018, and never made any additions, nor did anyone ask him to supplement the documentation and do not spread the untruths. Secondly, Mr. Minister, which of mine, in the past, did they do it one way or another? Explain to me, please. If you mean mine in the previous period, I admit I was a member of the Alliance of Communists, but then they didn't use Swiss loans and it wasn't the National Bank and the government watched as to how to make concessions to foreign banks, or branches of foreign banks, but rather, it was giving dinar loans or people getting apartments from their firms. There's no way anyone's getting it today. I don't know who these are, and the people know who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61522	Thank you, Mr. Chevarlich. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61523	Thank you very much. You see, from that time on, we're still paying our debts, I hope you're aware of that. You saw that 67m euros last week's debts from that period have been paid back as well. We're talking about a completely different economic policy here. To the responsible, to leave our children a better future. Don't think about paying back your debts in ten or 15 years, like we have to pay back our debts. On the subject of subsidies for farmers, I've given you accurate information. I see you have some personal interests with some individuals. If you do, solve them. It's important to me that the system works. If one problem is that some of your 160,000 demands, I admit that the state is not doing its job. (Marco Atlagic: He has his own personal interest. () Of course he has his own personal interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61524	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Chevarlich, do you want a replica? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61525	I'd like Mr. Minister to explain to me who these are. Secondly, to explain to me who is going to make these loans that this government took, who is going to pay? Will you pay or will you pay our children, grandkids and great-grandsons, as we now repay the loans that were taken over from a period of thirty or a change years ago? I don't know who they are, really. My people are all citizens. One example is enough to say it's wrong, and it's not one example, Mr. Minister. He's not my interest. I was at a rally in that village when a man approached me and asked to get information about it, because now it's October the month, he should sow at least wheat, and he didn't get the incentives from 2018, and he's not the only one. Also, Mr. Minister, you're very good at how all the farmers are damaged. The first way is to budget incentives below 5% as prescribed by the law on incentives for better rural development. Another way, that what is less than provided in the budget is not realised. How far has last year's budget been implemented in the department's division? Is it realised as much as prescribed by the budget or three billion less? Find me another country in the world, Mr. Minister, in which the incentives for subsidies to farmers are paid by the Minister and all employees who, I admit and agree, are objectively necessary and all other material costs to the ministry, but this cannot be the part under which it enters the scope of subsidies. I spoke to a colleague who's an expert on FAO. He says there is no such thing in any country in the world. And in this country there's cattle paying for a TV subscription, because every number in the stables, even when there's no cattle, pays for a TV subscription. Each count on banners used to power a irrigation pump pays a TV subscription for 12 months, although this number is used only three and a half to four months a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61526	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61527	Thank you very much. I think every topic is important to the citizens of Serbia. I'm sorry we're not discussing the Accounting and Audit Act, laws that are really very important. We just heard that every citizen is important to someone, but once again, he only asked once. I'm saying that out of 160,000 demands, 960 is either resolved by lawsuit or completed. You're still insisting on that one. I understand about the company, but I think we've shown that we're systemically responding and paying off the funds as they're meant to be. Now I'm going to give you an answer to your question, because you're talking about things that aren't facts again. So, the initial budget of the agriculture ministry, only for Serbian citizens to know about 2019, is 51,776,000.908 dinars, and in rebalancing, and in the rebalancing of 54,614,000,664 dinars. Is 54.6 smaller than or greater than 51.7? I would say, and I can ask my child, of course, that this is the other one. So, investments in agriculture are increasing, and they are not shrinking, and especially if you heard Minister Nedimovic, subsidies for agricultural producers are increasing just to encourage the development of our agriculture in the right way. Now, if this one of yours is here or isn't here, I don't know it now, but you know it better. I wish we could concentrate on the Law on Accounting, the Law on Audition, the Law on State Aid, these other political matters and who you are and what you just said to some Alliance of Communists, I thought of them, given that we were returning and that we were returning their loans, whoever you are, I don't have a problem with that, I'll always answer the question I understand. If I don't understand the question, or your comment yesterday that we've increased the budget deficit by 90%, then it's either just up to me or it's up to you. In any case, farmers and agricultural producers can always count on the support of the state, we've shown it with concrete figures for three billion dinars of a larger budget now than at the beginning of the year. So, through the rebalancing of the initial budget, which clearly speaks unequivocally and sufficiently of our firm definition for the development of the village, for the development of agriculture and for the incentive not only in the quantity, but also in the quality of the products produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61528	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Chevarlich, do you want a replica? Miladin Ševarlic: Yes. ) You will get a replica, but please talk about the agenda, so we can get back to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61529	Mr. Minister, I have not disputed that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has been increased year by year and I have no idea that I am contesting it. But what I'm contesting, which every student can account for at least ten hours after listening to a scale of agrarian politics. It is that in no year, in either year and the former regime and this current regime, the prescribed percentage of the allocation for incentives in agriculture and rural development is never met. So it's not just about this regime, it's about the former. This regime has now accepted this famous, inaccessible percentage of 5%, but has done something in 2016 that no one in the world has done. By 2016, 5% of the tax revenues were for fostering agriculture and rural development, and since 2016 5% of the ministry's total budget has been for the total budget, and the total budget of the ministry is not an incentive for agriculture. I ask you to say now that the citizens hear me, to deny me, what is 5% for incentives in agriculture at an absolute amount based on budget rebalances, or are we going to leave it for discussion by members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61530	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61531	So yesterday the topic was budget rebalance and we could talk about it yesterday, that wasn't your question. If the amount of the agricultural budget is growing, which I am glad you accept, then it is talking about the government's clear intensity and intention to invest in this area and most of it and go into incentives and subsidies as you know it. If you want, I don't have any problem, we can discuss it when we talk about the details that are related to the rebalancing, so we can go through the numbers and numbers that hurt you and the numbers that you've been talking about, and we can go through that. Now, I would ask you for the people who are watching this and who are listening, do you have any comment on these laws that are very important for the further growth of our economy, the Accounting Act, the Audit Act and the State Aid Act? Do you have anything to ask me about? I'd like to answer that question for you, and then we'll have these other things during the discussion of the particulars that are related to the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61532	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ševarlic, you have the right to a replica, the minister addressed you directly, but again the suggestion, so we are talking about the draft law on state aid control, the draft law on accounting and the draft law on audit. Please, let's get back to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61533	Thank you. I will remain with issues related when we discuss amendments to individual members of the law on amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask Mr. Minister to conduct a review since 2012, at the end of 2019, including rebalancing, as far as it is from tax revenues per year. Second, how realized of that. It's another vision or way of damage. The third way that is also present in this draft budget is to change positions and reduce certain positions that are less rebalancing than they were according to the basic budget adopted in 2018. Also, Mr. Minister, give a review of which categories of households are excluded in 2019 from the incentive rights due to an increase in the number of throats from 10 to 30, in small cattle or from two to three cows in cattle, so you will see the number of registered agricultural holdings in central Serbia, where the dominant nursing households are excluded from these subsidies and you will see what catastrophic consequences they will have. Take a look at the 2018 survey data. Five hundred and change thousands of landowners from 638 in 2012. I have no intention of plowing any further on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61534	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61535	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens, today we are talking, among other things, about the State Aid Control Act. It's an important law because in our economy the state is a great participant, it's a major businessman. In many situations, she is the biggest buyer, the biggest supplier. He is often also a preferred employer, as he predominates profits in front of the private sector. The state is also a political actor, because its economic power can also be used by state officials who are both party and political employees for political influence. That's why the issue of state aid control is very important. The previous law had certain shortcomings. Among other things, he had a question of the status of the Commission for the Protection of State Aid which was not adequately regulated as an independent body. She acted selectively, the purpose of state aid was once analysed already and based on the Memorandum of Understanding. In some other cases, she refused to analyse the purpose of state aid, even when the pre-contract was signed. Therefore, the State Aid Control Act deals in a broader sense both with competition and with the way in which the State can put that competition at risk when it selectively shares aid or unobstructively and not transparently, so it is for some a mother and some a stepmom. It also deals with the free market and the protection of consumers in the market with competition distorted by the state, if it does not act adequately. It deals, of course, with corruption, by preventing corrupting the activities of state officials in the decision-making process of granting state aid. One of the declared objectives of adopting this law is to align with the EU's legal assets. I will regret to conclude that the government's latest report on the percentage of the implementation of the EU's National Action Plan for the adoption of legal flows for the first half of the year, the National Action Plan is filled with only 47%. When it comes to the way in which this law is aligned with the directives, with the relevant EU Directive, if it is passed through the compliance table given at the end of the bill, it is largely dominated by the assessment that the provisions are fully harmonised. However, there is one thing that has been marked to be partially coordinated and that is the very definition of state aid. According to our proposal for a new law, this definition says that state aid applies only to measures that result in an increase in public expenditure or a reduction in public revenue. While the European directive is in the definition, it seems to me, much wider, it says that any measure in any form that distorts competition by favouring certain market participants is not allowed. We now have these days with us, especially in Belgrade, because the Belgrade citizens are faced with this, a certain situation and it would be convenient to see and analyze how we have reached it, is it the result of the state's conduct, whether these actions have a form of state aid and whether it is covered by our or European definition? So it's about situations where you don't have a direct reduction in public income, or a direct increase in public expenditure, but by certain legal regulations you regulate certain activity through the regulation of the way in which this activity is carried out. Now we can be banal, let's say, for a certain investor to change the conditions of construction on some salary, and now, there you can even have increased state revenue, because it will raise two floors higher, so it may pay the state more on that basis, but through the regulation it's done some kind of state aid. We have a situation with the transport of road passengers, where we recently passed a law that caused problems for Belgraders, because taxi associations protest, their protests are directed against, in particular, one company that carries passengers in road traffic performs in a different, innovative way, viewing itself as not a participant of the taxi market, but a participant of the road transport market, so its market in which it defines the wider. We have prescribed transport of passengers in road transport in a way that it must only take place with a taximeter and only at a price that is higher than minimum prescribed, and that some innovative methods of transport of passengers in road transport can be used, but only on condition that they are carried out at a price that is also higher than minimum prescribed and thus, this is now a basic theory of economical, disrupting the free market mechanism, because we have prescribed that certain services are carried out at a price greater than market-free basis, it has generated a surplus of offers, and then we have responded by limiting the number of providers of certain services, and thus reduced the total value of the road transport market of passengers generated and thus reduced the benefits that this activity brings to society. The way we prescribed it is as if we prescribed that, for example, online teaching can be conducted provided that it is fully permitted by law, but that it must be implemented by board and chalk, provided that the student and lecturer are in the same room. Under these conditions we can online, so we put it into the law and then we say – we're just asking that the law applies equally to everyone. It is understandable, on the one hand, that taxi associations have a problem making money for their lives and that they feel threatened because certain innovations start to compete with them, but it is also necessary to understand that this society cannot prevent the state from acting, because as a water they will find a way and leak, and it is actually the only way to generate economic growth. You yourself said that we are passing these laws for future generations, which expect us to see economic growth, and there is no economic growth without innovation, but innovation will not be if the state prevents them from doing so. I'd like to comment on the question of the definition of state aid. So, have we failed to define that under state aid, the measures the government is taking through the adoption of legal and sublegislative acts, which please one, and the others are going to harm? Because it seems to me that the European directive in its definition of state aid is much wider. I recall, we said - State aid is only measures that reduce public income or increase public expenditure, and the European directive said – state aid is every measure that distorts competition and favours individuals to the harm of others. Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61536	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61537	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, has been very open on the subject and yesterday during the debate on budget rebalancing, many of the topics of interest today are open. I simply need some of them, in the interests of the citizens and in the interest of our country, to look back. It has been said that SNS, or the Serbian government, does not care enough about pensioners, what is the situation of pensioners, how pensioners live in Serbia today, whether they find it difficult, is not difficult. Don't worry about pensioners who only cared about their pockets, those who only cared about how to take tens of thousands of euros from the Ministry of Agriculture for some pointless projects, none of which had any interest in our farmers or other citizens of Serbia or anyone in this country. The only interest of these and such projects and this funding, in particular the texts in the daily newspaper, which is a speaker recognised in the Assembly as someone who particularly deals with agricultural issues and is in love with the interests of farmers, and has never actually taken care of it, except for his pockets, is Mr. Sevarlic, who has filled his pockets with tens of thousands of euros of money from Serbian farmers. So, Serbian citizens, dear farmers, does anyone else in Serbia believe in the words of those who your money, the money from your subsidies, the money for tractors, for fuel, for seed, for everything that makes up the essence of agriculture, they took for their texts in the daily newspaper? Just so much for those who care so much about farmers. About the pensioners, don't let them worry about them. Just don't do it. Pensioners in Serbia felt the care of the yellow tycoon company, Chevarlic and other gangs. They felt good about it. All Serbian citizens felt it. Exactly in 2013, we were one step away from bankruptcy, one step away from Serbian citizens not having their child three meals tomorrow, one meal to give. It was felt by Serbian citizens through 400,000 jobs lost, through desert fields, through outdated machinery or even without machinery, by our farmers. Sensed Serbian citizens their concerns and do not want it to ever happen again. How do pensioners live today? They don't live easy. It is not easy in Serbia to be a pensioner. It's not easy living with 30, 40,000 dinars. But it is clear that from year to year, with the responsible policy of the finance ministry, led by Dr. Sinisa Mali, with the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is certain that from year to year, pensioners will see progress and see progress through one-off assistance that will soon come from 5,000 dinars. I read somewhere, those who only lead the politics on Twitter, and receive salaries in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, cannot identify where the wages are received, in the Assembly or on Twitter. They say it's humiliating, 5,000 dinars, it's small. Well, it's never enough. We'd all like it to be 10,000, 15,000 and 20,000, but multiply those 5,000 dinars by 1,800,000 pensioners, so you'll see what that money is. After that, there's an increase in pensions of over 5%. Every year pensions are increased. We've come to the fact that pensions are bigger today than they were before that famous downturn. Only villains today can say that in Serbia live badly, to live worse than it used to be, only malicious people, only those who only see themselves and their interest in politics. So, the SNS, our MPs, our President of the Republic and Government ministers are committed to Serbia's only interest. The only thing we are interested in is the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the interest of the Republic of Serbia, we see through these three legislative proposals we are talking about today. I wanted to talk to you about state aid control. Well, we have to control it even more, even more strictly, to know where the state's money is going, that we don't have the Zivkovic vineyard case. I import wine from abroad, I put it into my own bottles, so I sell it as my own, and after a few months I worked the vineyard, and it takes 10, 15 years for the vineyard to work. So, who's crazy here? Is that where we're all silly when someone takes half a million euros from the state register and becomes a quick millionaire, doesn't come out of the shark, out of the jeeps, out of what, and comes to the assembly hall, holds conferences to give us all the salty minds, to tell us about who the tycoons are in Serbia? Well, put a mirror in front of you and you'll see the largest tycoon in Serbia. Don't tell that to the citizens of Serbia - take the advances. What did the advances take? We gave Serbia hundreds of kilometers of highways, bridges, tunnels, over 200 factories, 300,000 jobs, salary increases and pensions constantly year after year. Our economy is growing, and next year it's going to grow. It's going to get better every year, and we're better off because we don't have scum in power anymore. We don't have those who can't wait to get their hands on the choices, the authorities, the chairs, and now they're moving the combinations. One combination has been completed. That's why there's no part of the opposition in the Serbian Parliament. They have nothing to talk to us about. What are they going to resent, Minister Dr. Sinishi Malo? What can they blame him for? They can say - your diploma. The man comes out, shows all his diplomas, all tens in college, the best student, the results speak of him, the man who split the debt of Belgrade, who tycoon Dragan Gilas left, 1.2 billion. Is that what happened? What we found back then, I was then a councilman in the City Assembly, you were mayor, we remember how many hundreds of millions of pregnant women were owed to pensioners. I watched their affairs again today from the South Boulevard, the Požega, the tramway, and I don't know everything, wherever you get into whatever street, whatever the subject, anywhere in the pockets of Dragan Gilas. He painted a pipe there. Well, every street he's ever done, there's something wrong with him. The fallen cars in the South Boulevard, the trams in Požega could not go, they didn't put those tires under where the asphalt is. What's he talking about? They don't need to get involved so high, they don't even know the simplest. State aid control is important to know where the money is going for the citizens of Serbia. It is our duty as politicians to tell citizens where their money is going. Aleksandar Vukic, as president of Serbia, tells citizens of Serbia where the money is going and where they are going every day. This is not the populist rebalancing we talked about yesterday, but responsible rebalancing towards citizens, those who have endured the burden of reform for the past four or five years, those who have had enough patience and love for their country not to attack those whose results are good for Serbia, those people who have seen and knew. No government is crazy to take and reduce pensions because she's happy, she likes to do it. It just had to be done so that this country would survive and don't talk about it anymore – a woman came to me and told me when the pensions would come back. People, they're bigger than they were. Ask Dragan Gilas when he'll pay you back the hundreds of millions of euros he took? When's he gonna pay back the 619 million that his companies made? Don't make me... You're right, but you're not in the dark. ) All of this is a topic for the citizens of Serbia, finance is a topic, money is what interests the citizens of Serbia. We can list as many numbers as we want, Serbian citizens are interested in what the salary is next month, whether they can buy books, whether they can buy medicines, whether they can tie up, can they tie up and buy medicines and eat and live better and live better year after year. That is why, as Minister of Finance and full support to the SNS and the President of the Republic and to all of you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is your honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61538	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61539	Dear Minister, before I say anything about the state aid I intend to speak of, I would like to agree first and support the proposal of a respected colleague Kovacevic concerning a licensed accounting programme for the micro-enterprise. I say this as an economist and as an economist, as someone who has been working in the economy for 26 years and I believe that this is a valuable proposal exactly in the way that counterpart Kovacevic explained it and perhaps we should look for ways and opportunities to introduce this solution in the next period, probably not possible at the moment, but how valuable the help of the economy I think will also benefit the state, because I think that the availability of data is extremely important and in this way we will make it possible. Thank you for listening to me in this part. The issue of granting state aid to economic operators is important because of its economic effects and here is primarily thinking about the objectives that are being achieved, whether the purpose of the State aid award has been achieved and whether there has been a distortion of competition. Because any situation in which state aid is being granted creates a risk of corruption and the obligation that Serbia has made on the basis of Eurointegration. The 2009 State Aid Control Act was adopted in order to bring the EU legislation into line and is focused on controlling distortions of competition through the granting of state aid. We heard here today and certain objections to the work of the Commission in the previous period. I would like to say something about the work of the Commission in the previous period and the existence of certain shortcomings in the existing legal solution that has in certain situations paralyzed the work and in general the conduct of certain complaints. In the previous period, there was no adequate mechanism on which the Commission could establish that State aid was intended. As regards knowledge, the fact fully depends on the will of the aiding authority to report, implement or inform the Commission of its intention to grant assistance and that it has already been granted. In a similar way, the Commission is also bound by hands in situations where the State authority does not wish to provide it with information on the case of granting State aid which the Commission takes into consideration. It's one of the biggest problems in the state aid system. There was no adequate mechanism of control, accountability and punishment for granting State aid under the law and for fully ignoring the Commission. Thus, the question of respect for legal obligations in practice is largely reduced to the well-willed nature of the body to report all relevant facts to the Commission. There is an impression that due to the absence of adequate sanctions for a body which does not supply data to the Commission, as a control body, it is in an uninvited situation. On the one hand, strict insistence on the application of the law, on the basis of information available, would result in the declaration of State aid for the unlawful, and the economic operator would be obliged to recover the funds received. On the other hand, the economic operator is protected by a contract and would have the right to sue the state and it is certain that he would get a verdict in his favour. This legislative solution provides for clear treatment in situations where the State aid granted is suspected to benefit from the contrary and the Commission’s opinion, i.e. if it can be assumed to be non-compliant. The Commission will assess compliance in the framework of the control fee, which is in line with the European Commission's recommendations to reduce the number of follow-up controls and introduce an unambiguous obligation to report state aid. The right of parties, as well as interested persons, is further strengthened, with the obligation to co-operate with the Commission being introduced. In exceptional circumstances, where appropriate information cannot be obtained in a different way, the Commission may announce to the State user that specific data is required to make available in its premises. If certain aid is shown to be incompatible or used against the solution, the Commission may, at any time and no later than 10 years from the assignment, order the refund of such aid. In such a way, the Commission shall be able to review its decisions, i.e. to monitor certain aid during that period. The most common reason for such situations is to make decisions on the basis of incorrect and incomplete information for which the State aid provider must be responsible, given that it has a burden of proof, whether it fulfils the conditions set out above. However, in line with European practice, the measure of conduct contained in the ban on further granting aid, until the Commission assesses compliance, is set at an equal level and represents an equally important instrument introduced by this proposal. The Commission’s authority has also been extended to the possibility of expressing periodic pens to a user or third party of between 5,000 dinars and 200,000 dinars for each day of conduct contrary to its mandate. This is very important because the Commission will finally have the opportunity to sanction any irregularity, because it is very important that the procedure for granting state aid is followed the way it is implemented. However, these are some of the consequences that are brought forward for a longer period of time, that certain shortcomings that the Commission may, and now have the power to examine, and the possibility to punish them, may be applied over a continuous period of time. This legislative solution is primarily important because it allows us to have a clear insight into the state aid granted and, of course, gives the Commission powers that have not existed so far. I wanted to look back once again on this because I think it is very important in this law and once again to stress that SDPS MPs will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61540	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61541	Thank you very much. Just briefly about licensing software. It's ungrateful, Mrs. Zivkovic, to do it that way because then there would be stories immediately, which is why this software producer, which is why he, and not this one, etc. What we've done I think it's fair, we've defined the characteristics that software must have, which is the minimum necessary conditions it needs to meet, and then depending on the company's payment power on it is to choose which software it will use, as long as the basis for the most important characteristics is respected where what the law requires is. I think your idea is well-intentioned, I know, but it's not easy to implement it, because it opens up a number of other topics, after all, and on the basis of which one or one licensed software producer is defined as one that's preferred by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61542	I thank the ministers. The word is from a colleague named Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61543	Mr. Minister, I understand your answer, and I expected you to answer that. Of course it is a problem from your point of view to determine one software. I'm telling you from the point of view of the economy and I'm telling you what people need and I know it's not possible at this point, but again I'm telling you that maybe in the next period we should think that way and the way we can overcome these possible issues and possible problems that can arise. I think it's a good idea and we should think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61544	Thank you. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People, unanimously. 27th and Art. In the 87th century, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here's my colleague Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61545	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected government representatives and above all dear citizens of Serbia, today we have three draft laws, one of which is the State Aid Control Act. Certainly, the importance of this law, no doubt, should not be assessed at all, but what should be pointed out is that this law wants to improve the system of state aid control, and in addition to all the conditions and means of granting state aid, as well as control of the same, I assume that all this is well measured, even I am sure, and in line with European standards. The condition of all the conditions for any assistance, of course and state aid, is to provide funds for it. Dear citizens, in my address, I will compare some financial data from 2012 when the SNS assumed responsibility for state leadership from 2019. In the congregation, we usually give a political assessment of certain laws, or legal proposals. In this case, however, we have the opportunity to present some exact data, numbers, and indeed to the indisputable facts that no policy can influence. These data are comparable for another reason, as the value of the euro as a sort of parameter has not changed over the past seven years. These data are comparable and so on, for example. The total amount of resources identified is five times higher than in 2012, as can be seen from this chart. That amount was 3.6 billion, and now it's 18 billion dinars. That's why medical salaries are higher, which is why new clinical centres are being built. This smaller yellow part is an accident. In the Ministry of Education's division from 2012 to 2019, we have an increase of 80 billion. We see again on the chart what it looks like. In the department of the Ministry of Culture, we have a double increase. From the former 6.7 billion to 14.7 billion. That's why we have a restored National Museum after many years of the Museum of Modern Art. Investments in sports are 50% higher. The military budget is twice as big. There's a similar increase in the MUP. We have an increase of 150% in agriculture and forestry and water production, from 22 billion to 54 billion. On this chart you can see very well what it looks like. As a last example, in infrastructure, traffic and construction, we have a quadruple increase of 25 billion to 102 billion. All of this is, as you can see, easily evidenceable and visible in all spheres of life. Since Serbia's concern for the SNS led by Aleksandar Vukic, we have growth and progress. On the other hand, those who used to be the government, who today, as things stand, are afraid of the election so that they would be suspended against the law and against the constitution, had only one increase, which was an increase in the course of the euro and an increase in inflation. In the end, if there were state aid controls in Vojvodina, hundreds of millions of euros would not have been taken away by new technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61546	I thank my colleague Obradovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61547	Something I think if this is really the way we just heard it, we can part ways, we don't need laws, we don't need anything. In the state of Serbia, everything is at the highest possible level. Don't exaggerate, my people. He knows how the people live. Today we are talking about these three draft laws and these laws are essentially, at least these two others, primarily professional, but they certainly deserve our attention and deserve to be said about them. Minister, you said this morning when you were answering one of the MPs that this E invoice that was provided for in one of these laws, that it was part of Serbia's digitisation, something in that sense. I must really tell you that, first of all, the SRS has nothing against digitization. On the contrary, we have nothing against all scientific achievements, but to all ministers, even to you now, when we speak of this topic, we have drawn attention to the need to know that we live in Serbia. It's not all the way it says on the paper. In our time, we warned Zorana Mihajlovic that she could not operate e-Government in Katastra, she was jumping, her eyes were pulling out. After that, the result was seven or eight months of the Katastra strike, among other things. So we told Minister Sarčević that it was good to introduce an electronic diary, but that he couldn't rye before the rabbit, that he had to start the internet at all schools and then make a nice tender, and then choose a software player for that electronic diary, did everything upside down, without a tender, chose a Croat there, paid big money, it was a year and a half ago -- no electronic journals in about 90% of schools in Serbia today. When it comes to this draft law on state aid control, there really is no fundamental difference here compared to the law that is still current, which you are changing by adopting this law because they wrote it there in some EU directive. What's the main thing here, and that's what we've been seeing since 2000 by various directives, what's the main amendment to this law? Now that, instead of the normal job of the ministry, you're forming again as some independent body, some commission that will have its director, which will be particularly paid, etc. Then you'll say it's an independent director, like this Sikimic from the Anti-Corruption Agency, who was elected here as an independent, and he was the president of the election commission on behalf of the progressors in the Zemun municipality, was a high-ranking official, and now they say he's frozen the function, not what it looks like, I guess the function in that freezer bag and put it in the freezer and then nobody knows what you were, or, let's just say, pick someone like that Brankica Jankovic, who is being planted by the NGO, but it's all playing with reality. This job should be done by the department, as it has worked now. What commissions, what para-state bodies, what parallel organs. In article 61 of this law, you say - on the day of the start of work and one of your commissions, she takes over the employees of the Ministry of Finance, the Department of State Aid Control, as well as the items, archives, equipment and means of work related to these matters. So, you have employees, you have resources to work with, you have archives, you have objects, you have equipment, you have everything, and it's not enough for you, you want some innovation. We have a number of amendments here, so we'll talk about it. I said that these two laws, accounting and audit laws, are, above all, narrow professional laws. Someone would say there's no room for any excessive policy, but the SRS expert team, when we talked about this, pointed out certain shortcomings in these proposals and we want to draw attention to both the minister and the assembly majority because of the voting day. We think that the remarks that we have recorded here and that through the amendments we have identified are really acceptable and that they are only improving the text of both laws, and I assume that everyone's goal, when they are passed especially new laws, is to make it something that will take at least a little longer than the government's mandate. Our fundamental observation is that you are also making these laws on orders and EU directives. This law, for example, on the revision, is in line with the amended directive as early as 2013. When we speak further, you will see that even those directives you did not respect, even as your EU told you, you did not do exactly what they asked of you. When I drew attention to the need to make sure that we live in Serbia where much else does not work, however much from the mouth of the government, any MPs, or government representatives, comes out as honey and milk, it does not. It's not like that, and we have a lot to do so that really some of the things that are present in the world can work here. And that's true, and we can't get away from it and we shouldn't run. When it comes to this Accounting Act, we have here several objections that we want to make. Let's just say, this e-facture against which, I repeat, no one has anything, but you haven't answered through the bill how is this e-facture going to be used in the case of an account that's actually an severance that tracks goods and that has to be with whoever delivers them? Are you going to commit every driver who drives the goods to have a laptop with him? You just didn't answer that one practical question. Also, you haven't answered the question of what's going to happen, say, in the area of construction and when you're doing temporary situations, who's going to sign these temporary situations? We told you through the amendment that we think it should be done by the supervisory authority, since you didn't say anything. It could be a performer, it could be an orderer, you can talk about it. But there must be a solution, that's the point. So I said, how much did you miss those obligations from the directive where you're actually looking under those directives you're calling for, to administratively simplify access to the service market, which is certainly not the case through these draft laws. What's particularly interesting to us is that you haven't figured out who's going to license, how these future accountants, and especially our big problem is that this job is not going to be done by professional organisations, which is not going to be done by some commissions at the ministry or colleges, etc. You know, mixing the Chamber of Commerce into everything and everything is something about the SRS inadmissible, those various chambers that you form. The chambers are a nice place to take money from the members of the chamber, and some great benefits no one will have. We'll do the amendments after I've spent my time for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61548	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61549	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, as far as the e-facture is concerned, I think the introduction of the e-facture is a major step towards Serbia's economy. In order to clarify your concerns, therefore, we are introducing e-factures and their obligation to apply will be from 1 January 2020. So, we leave enough time for the economic operators to agree, and the papers that follow the invoices remain. So, severances, the temporary situations that you have announced, so they remain in paper form, so let's see how we do with them in some future period. What's important is that any change that you're introducing doesn't make any difference in any way discontinuity. E-factures are something the largest number of countries in Europe, now and in the world, are already using. So that's where we're lagging behind and we want to cut that trunk down so that we can introduce in the shortest time period with all the benefits that they're only introducing, of course, there's something we've talked about, but let's clear up any confusion. So, dispatches and other paperwork that monitors these invoices that are made remains for any control, if that happens. The question of the Revision Act and the Directive. So in 2013, the law was in line with EU directives. In June 2014, a new regulation and a new directive were adopted and we are simply following those directives, following these changes that are related to EU standards in this law and we are applying this. Of course, life goes on, the economy goes on and their directives can change in the years to come, and then we, of course, will agree our legislation. What is important at this point, the adoption of these laws would fully respect all EU directives and bring our standards into line with theirs, which is of course very important both because of predictability and because of the transparency of precisely economic operators and foreign investors who come and invest here. On the matter of the State Aid Commission. What is important is that we all understand the way this Commission is working now. At this point in the Commission, you have representatives of those ministries which are also the biggest state aid providers. The Commission therefore has a representative of the Ministry of Construction, a representative of the Ministry of Ecology, economy, finance and turns out that the Commission controls itself, and also approves of State aid. That's exactly what we wanted to avoid, to do some super-audit or the possibility that there's advice and a commission that monitors the provision of state aid. This, by the way, was also the European Commission's biggest objection to the existing State Aid Act, since it does not in any way give the possibility or reduce the possibility of objective control of the state aid process itself. I think these were the three most important questions or suggestions I've answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61550	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61551	Thank you, Minister. Yes, you responded to what I put in place as a dilemma, but now just to be clear. We have nothing against e-facture, I've said it several times, and we have no objection to the digitization of anything that is possible in Serbia, on the contrary, we absolutely support it, but we're just talking about some things having to be done before, as our people say, and I just said, there's no rabbit in the woods, and there's no rye to be cut. It's simple to reverse the situation. Now you've explained it yourself with the e-facture and the shipping company will go in the paper. As far as the EU directive is concerned, we will never agree and that is obvious. The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU, and we are even absolutely certain that we will never enter the EU, and we prefer to think that we should not take over every directive, all that some officials there prescribe. I know exactly, you will now say – we do not work in the interest of the EU, but in the interests of the people and the state, etc., but you do not have to stick to each one blindly. They change the directive, and you, let's change the law. We even have laws, a few days ago a law was passed that we talked about here for two days, and it will apply when Serbia enters the EU, which means never. As for the Commission, well, Minister, you said yourself, there was obviously some, come on conditionally speaking, problem in the composition of the Commission. Why, then, instead of changing the composition of the Commission, that this Commission that will be under the control of the Ministry, you are hiring people from other areas, from ministries, from, I don't know, some other public institutions, etc. Instead, you are changing the Commission only to make someone the director of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61552	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61553	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, harmonising with European legislation in some way is about our commitment that one day, with respect for your position, and being part of the EU, but, in my view, at this point, it is much more about the economic environment itself in our country. We are aimed at investors or at foreign trade with the EU. So our biggest foreign trade partners are from Germany and Italy. Our biggest investors come from EU countries. They simply want, if they invest their money, to have the predictability of that part of the legislation relating to business, to the business of their businesses. So it has nothing to do with politics, how much it has to do with economy. Simply, if international accounting standards were applied in Serbia to know that two dinars in Serbia are the same as two dinars in Germany, that it would simply be comparable and that in the end, if you look at it, they would consolidate their balances, given that, apart from Serbia, they would probably be operating both in Africa and in America and Asia. These international accounting standards, standards relating to and audits, are also simply harmonised worldwide, as this guarantees the security of investment, transparency and uniformity of financial reports that economic operators are making and who are ultimately watching. Otherwise, to compare, or to compare someone who invests money, financial reports from Singapore, Kenya, Argentina and Serbia? Hardly, unless you have unique international standards, a unique methodology for preparing financial reports and revising them. As regards the Commission, it is not the issue of the composition of the Commission. Maybe we didn't understand each other. So, as defined by the existing law, the composition of the Commission is such as to function itself where you want the process of control and supervisory of state aid to be separated from the decision-making process to which this State aid is going. I think it's simply this two-degree decision-making level, which is necessary in this area that's very sensitive and we don't have much margin for error. So, it is not just a question of the composition of the Commission, nor the appointment of a director or president of the Commission, however, but of the very functioning of something that works in the country, I just said that it is working and how many Germans are giving state aid either Hungarians or French, that there is some structure that is obviously acceptable and that has proved to be the best for us to apply our State aid, which, I say, is completely legitimate, is in line with these norms and criteria that have been established in other developed countries as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61554	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61555	I knew we couldn't get along, or agree, but I don't know why we don't understand each other. When I spoke about the Commission, I meant the physical composition of the Commission, not Janko, but institutionally, but you could change it at the level of the Ministry without forming a new Commission. Well, you chose it, of course you'll be responsible for all the jobs you do and based on this law and other laws. As for this particular environment that you all like to talk about and from the conditions that you create here for these investors coming from abroad. First, there are no EU investors, but you yourself said, from Germany, from France, from here or from there, but let's just take a little bit of a change to your domestic investors. Try, by giving foreign investors, you're still changing regulations for them, you've changed everything because of them, since the Labour Act, we haven't forgotten that. You've changed everything at the expense of the Serbian citizens. Let's give some of this incentive money to the Serbian businessmen, so let's see if anyone who lives in Serbia, who has Serbian citizenship can manage these funds and get 20 or 100, 200 or so from 10 workers in a year. We think so. We think that just someone from Serbia, who lives here, has a much greater interest in developing this company that would subsidize his country, which does not seem to be much more of an interest than the one who comes from abroad and who has been here as long as he has economic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61556	Thank you. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61557	Thank you very much. We support, of course, both domestic and foreign investors, that's what I was talking about yesterday, and I can give you the information that's related to it again. Finally, the confirmation is that our economic growth is based on both domestic and foreign investments, as well as on public, state-owned investments. We can talk about it some other time. It is important for me to clarify this matter about the Commission once more. I listened to you correctly, you said, "The composition of the commission," if we didn't understand each other, it's okay. There is a budget inspection within the Ministry of Finance. If you were right, with great respect, then the DRI, the State Auditing Institution, could not be independent, but could be within the Ministry of Finance, which would not allow the DRI to be independent. The same kind of parallel can be made for the State Aid Commission. The finance ministry, since it's also giving state aid through, say, tax relief, if it is, and now it's part of that Commission, so how are we going to control ourselves? I mean, we can, if we believe we're going to do it in an objective way, but it hasn't really been confirmed that we can do it all the time, objectively and independently. On the other hand, I think this is a solution where the Commission under the National Assembly is the same solution that we have, if I am not mistaken, and for the Competition Protection Commission, which enables independence, enables objectivity. Finally, I think it is good that the government itself understands the need for the independence of such an institution, precisely because of the transparency of the whole state aid process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61558	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Radeta, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61559	The position of the SRS when it comes to various agencies, commissions, some kind of so-called. The independent body is that they are 98% unnecessary. There are one, two or five agencies that really need to exist, all of which are para-state authorities. You hire party activists there, party officials become officials with good salaries at the job, and essentially the jobs are done by the ministries. You say, "How will you control yourself?" Minister Mali, by making the state of Serbia in the right sense the words of the rule of law, which will be functioning by all system bodies, which will be respected by the law and will not be suspected and that corruption will come out of all the pores of society, where it has largely entered and where it is harassed. So it's a way to start functioning normally, not -- you're controlling someone at the Ministry, you're someone in the government, and then you're all a commission, then you're all DRI, so then I don't know, I don't know, this agency, that agency. And what's the score? The result is -- all the agencies, all the commissions and these independent bodies, Mr. Sinisha Mali, had their reports here and we discussed the report of all the so-called. independent regulatory bodies. And do you know what the main line of all their reports is, Mr. Mali? I'm asking you to hear this, it's very important to you, it's important to all of us. It's all this so-called. The regulatory independent bodies, 10, 15 days ago, we discussed their reports 20 days ago, each report says – the main problem in Serbia is that public procurement is not respected. So you solve these problems, and then you won't need any bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61560	Thank you. Dear Members of the People now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, Mrs. Vukoicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61562	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, in front of us the second day, there is a set of financial laws. What I have to say first is that the economy, based on sound foundations, is the foundation of every successful state. Unfortunately, in 2012, the foundations of the state were destroyed and only, thanks to Alexander Vukic and his arrival as prime minister in 2014, after painful but only possible implemented fiscal consolidation measures, we came into the situation that three years in a row we have a surplus in the budget. Yesterday we had a budget rebalance for 2019, and budget rebalance was made for surpluses, i.e. higher revenue from expenditure. In that sense, and to the complete government and to you, Mr. Minister Sinisha Mali, honest congratulations. Of course it's the adoption of financial laws for respect. The passing of laws also involves part of financial discipline. Economic progress and the development of a society, too, cannot be without financial discipline and financial responsibility. I would have just proposed a law on state aid control, inter alia, and under a law that allows financial discipline and financial responsibility, both the donor and the beneficiary of state aid. Of course, the reason for adopting this law and harmonising with EU legislation is, above all, Chapter 8, but I must say that the Republic of Serbia has the largest foreign trade exchange with the EU countries, and that the largest and most developed European economies, such as Germany, France, Italy, have a large number of businesses on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the State Aid Control Act, as one of its very important characteristics, I must indicate the transparency of all procedures in the process of granting state aid. Why does it matter? This is important from the point of view of curbing and preventing corruption, because by coming to power, SNS has actually established zero tolerance to crime and corruption. So, besides establishing clear rules, apart from full transparency and openness of every procedure and every step in granting state aid, I have to say that this law also contributes to efficient economic development, better economic development, and so far economic development may be best measured on the unemployment indicator, and that unemployment is record low 10.3%. I also have to point out, as one of the very significant results that, by adopting this law, will come to pass, it is a register of state aid. It's actually a unique electronic database where one click will allow all state aid users to see it. Also, I must say that it is also important to establish an independent body, which is the Commission for State Aid Control, because state aid is provided by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government and other publicly available economic operators. Therefore, the formation of this commission is also important in terms of objectivity and, of course, full capacity to control money spending. It is also very important for the commission that its work is based on the General Administrative Procedure Act, but I must also stress that two-stage decision-making is envisaged, which means there is judicial protection through the launch of the administrative dispute. I also have to point out for all of them, although we haven't heard the criticism of this law today, but I have to say when it comes to agriculture and subsidies related to farmers and fisheries, these subsidies are excluded from this law and the state will continue, as so far as it is to give subsidies and invest in agriculture, because agriculture is and what an important parameter, when it comes to GDP growth, and hence the growth of our country at all and the improvement of the quality of our citizens' lives. I will touch on just one more remark that one respected MP from the opposition today, he is not in the O.R., but he said that the state has never invested less in social giving. I have to say, it's an absolute lie. The budget rebalance, precisely for the distribution of social contributions, increased by 5.9% and that's 120 billion. Most of it concerns the protection and support of those most sensitive groups, and I have to say, the vast majority of eight billion is intended to pay the maternity benefits. The issue of population policy first under the carpet was taken out by our President Aleksandar Vukic, recognising the issue of population policy, as one of the national issues and as one of the strategic important issues. I must stress that in the last two years and how much has been done on this matter, for the first time the women who are farmers have the right to exercise the right to maternity leave, as well as the total size of women who can use this right has been increased. Of course, the SNS will support all these financial laws in the voting day, because they all contribute to the better quality of life of our citizens, which is the goal of both our president and the SNS and Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61563	Thank you, Mrs. Vukoicic. The word is Dr. Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61564	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, is now on the agenda of another set of finance law, which as well as the laws we discussed these days, evidence that this government is leading one responsible economic policy, and all with a view to making the citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel better. I'll talk about the bill on state aid control. Although the current state aid control law was adopted in 2009, and started with the application of 2010, it turned out that its application showed the need to regulate in a more complete and meaningful way certain issues related to this area, as well as the conduct of the Commission's State Aid Control Procedure and functioning. Under current law, state aid control has been conducted by a special department within the Ministry of Finance. The new bill forms an independent body, i.e. a state aid control committee, to be elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the competent committee. Labour control will also be done by the National Assembly as part of its control function. This will ensure the transparency of the entire system of state aid, by prescribing clear rules. The law sets out all procedures and conditions for the use of state aid, so that all potential users of any form of state aid will have in front of them transparent and precise legal conditions that they need to meet in order to apply for state aid. The law defines the concept of state aid and to remind us. State aid shall be granted through the following instruments — subsidies, which may be grants or a subsidy interest rate on loans, tax reliefs for the beneficiary of aid, such as tax exemption and contributions or customs duties, debt write-offs to the State, sale or use of public property at a price lower than the market price, as well as other instruments referred to in Article 3. It's a bill of law. A State aid provider may be the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or local self-government as well as any legal person who manages or disposes of public funds and grants state aid in any form. The beneficiary of State aid is certainly a legal or natural person who uses state aid in any form in the exercise of activity. The arrangement of the state aid system should contribute to fostering economic development in the Republic of Serbia. It will also regulate and secure a single market and establish policies and measures to promote the smooth development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas. The reason for this law is the introduction of new legal institutes from this area into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the harmonisation with the EU's legal assets, which is Serbia's obligation as a candidate for entry into it. The draft law, as well as the laws we have discussed these days, are proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and their adoption, and later application, aimed at the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, of which citizens have the ultimate benefit, and are also maintained for a more balanced development of the Republic and a reduction of differences between developed and undeveloped parts of the Republic. After all, our goal is for citizens to live in a better and more economically stable Serbia, because they have put economic reform measures on their shoulders and contributed to the fiscal consolidation that we have discussed in the budget rebalancing debate. In addition to other expected positive effects, the aim of this law is also to streamline public spending and invest in those projects that are important for the economy of certain regions as well as for societies in general. In order for some measure to be considered State aid, it must be selective, i.e. the effect of bringing economic operators, the production of certain goods or the provision of certain services, into a more favourable position than competitors. This law provides for the establishment of a new body, an independent state body that would fully monitor the allocation of state aid through compliance with the rules. The new authority, i.e. the Commission for State Aid Control, has its own bodies, commissions and commission presidents, whose work will be transparent and subject to control and the National Assembly and citizens as taxpayers. Therefore, this bill establishes better control of state aid and transparency in granting it, creating sound competition for operators on the market and will result in healthy economic development and ultimately, affirming employment and attracting investment. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61565	Thank you. Now the word is Snow White Petrovic. Here you go, Mrs. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61566	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the 2019 Budget Rebalancing Law, as well as a set of financial and accounting laws on the agenda of this session, are a very important segment of the functioning of the country's system in general and should be approached with great attention and responsibility. It is undeniable that the management of fiscal policy during the previous period by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry has resulted in an increase in wages and a focus on more funding for infrastructure and capital projects. So, at a time of slowing down the conjuncture of the global economy, geopolitical tensions and trade conflicts, Serbia's economy has continued to improve macroeconomic performance continuously since 2014, when this improvement has become a momentum for the development of the economy and growth of social GDP, which has gone from a minus to a very significant 3.5% year-on-year. The country's fiscal stability has also been established. Public debt has been reduced, there is a permanently high inflow of foreign direct investment, continued economic growth has been made possible, the country's external position improved, unemployment decreased and, with all that is also very important, stable, low and predictable inflation rates have been preserved. During 2019, around 50 billion dinars of surplus funding was made, and the budget rebalance proposal envisioned that surplus funding and spending be achieved. The planned revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget was revised in 2019 for 46 billion dinars compared to the revenue provided for in the 2019 Budget Law, and the revised revenue projection in 2019 was made on the basis of macroeconomic developments, i.e. on the basis of the implementation of the budget in January – August of the current year. The value added tax has also been increased by around 6.1 billion dinars compared to the amount provided for by the 2019 Budget Law, and this rebalance provides for a reduction in expenditures and expenditures estimated not to be implemented in the planned amount by the end of the year as well as the provision of additional expenditure for employees to increase the basics of salaries from November and for travel infrastructure construction expenditures, to pay compensation in accordance with the Financial Support Act for families with children and other expenditures. The amount of funds to convert part of the debt to residential loans indexed in Swiss francs has also been increased, and the amount of expenditure on interest payments has been increased. The Ministry of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure has increased funds for the construction of road infrastructure, while the Ministry of Education of Science and Technological Development has increased the amount of funds that will be able to target scientific and research activities, while the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat and Social Affairs has provided additional funds to pay compensation under the Family Financial Support Act with children. All macroeconomic measures are being taken to strengthen the established growth model based on increasing export investments, and efforts are aimed at investing structural, reform processes to ensure continuity of improving the economic environment, progress on international competitiveness lists and further raising the country's credit rating. Special efforts are also being made to reform public enterprises in order to achieve a degree of efficiency, and all with a view to ensuring better living conditions and raising citizens' living standards. In voting day, Serbian People's Party MPs will support the draft legislation on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61567	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mali, and Little is the last name. You remember when the current President of the Republic, at the time the Prime Minister represented you, when it was being helped around the airport, said Sinisha Mali, he says – it's a small name. Now, Mr. Mali, I'm telling you that this problem that needs to be regulated in these three laws is something that Serbian citizens need. The economy, business activities, financial movements, cannot be shut down within the borders of a country, simply crossing the frameworks of a country and monitoring certain global achievements, especially those of which there is something to learn, that is not bad. You have made one move, and when I say you, I mean the Alexander Vukic regime compared to those before you who said that the EU has no alternative. You are now very nice to the citizens of Serbia, and you are acceptable to say, what we are doing is doing this for us, not for the EU, but in many ways when it comes to these directives that you are often referring to, you regulate as they have suggested and recommended. We need to solve life's problems through laws, of course, in a way that allows the state of Serbia to compete in economic activities on the world market whenever possible, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we need to consider the interests of citizens, above all, but the level of development of our country. It's not worth it to us to watch us watch other countries do it when we won't get to that level for some longer time. Here's what you said, and that's what my colleague, Mrs. Radeta, was talking about, and they're good. If that's true what you're talking about, so far it's not been the practice when it comes to the return of VAT power to be realised in relatively short time, that in a relatively short time, the taxpayers come to their own resources, that'll be good. But there are several actions that are regulated by other regulations where it is not possible to issue electronic accounts. Serbia is a country that has both peasants and intellectual workers and should not forget that a large number of people in Serbia are engaged in extensive agricultural production and that they are not in a position to make those accounts. It's like they don't exist, like we're not solving their problem. What makes it possible? It leaves the possibility for some up-to-date inspectors or some other controllers who will have no understanding. It may not be an intensities of the finance ministry, or the Tax Administration in Serbia, but he thinks he must do everything as it is written. He may be a serious problem for the citizens of Serbia, which is why we are here and who sent us to this parliament to pass laws that will, above all, suit them. When it comes to the Audit Act, and the revision is good for both the owners of capital and the state itself and, of course, the management of certain companies because it can project certain events, it can control what happens and prevent the development of a society, or a state. When it comes to this law, Serbian auditors have little problems. They say it will be relatively good and what has not been regulated in the current law in a way that is more acceptable to both them and Serbia, there are a large number of international audit institutions, which is because foreign capital, whether under very well-fused conditions to which we speak or quite the same, as you say very often with business entities from Serbia, is now a different issue, but there are these international companies that have companies in many countries. And you've removed the possibility of not running special accounting for them here, but of leading out there somewhere in some of the central headquarters of their own companies. That may be good, and that will make our country something more attractive for future investors. There is a smaller number of our audit institutions, i.e. when it comes to the size of the work controlled by the domestic audit institutions. He's a little smaller, but I have to tell you that they mostly, audit institutions, do this job fairly correctly and professionally. Maybe someone can say there are opposite cases, and that's probably so, but mostly we could be satisfied with that. When I say with that, I mean the work done by these audit institutions. When it comes to the Accounting Act, here perhaps the biggest problem is what you predicted should be re-legated to be certified people who work, not 10 or 15 years, but maybe almost 40 years old, but there's a big number that's been working for 10, 15 years. In fact, from the moment entrepreneurship in Serbia began to develop more seriously, a large number of people who did not always do this job well to do what they needed to use professional persons services, or professional accountants. The problem is that you didn't have enough hearing for, perhaps it's a relatively young accounting organisation, or this Chamber of Accountants of Serbia, that's one professional association, which has a lot of support behind it when it comes to accountants, on the one hand. On the other hand, they do their job very professionally and certainly helped the Tax Administration, i.e. the state of Serbia, with their proposal for a combined VAT collection in 2014, because you know that since 2002, when the Social Accounting Service was abolished, VAT collection and taxes and contributions to earnings and other obligations have been sorted into how many accounts. Well, this Chamber of Accountants also suggested that those who possess knowledge in the field of accounting should not particularly take exams, and only one institution was favored, that is this Alliance of Accountants and Auditors. You know, it's been there since 1955, but the APR shows they have three employees. Chuck, there's one-third in that alliance and two-thirds in another company that's also a member of this alliance. Their proposal, it's not a proposal for us Serbian radicals, but we can agree with that, their proposal is that those people who work 10, 15 and over and have successful financial reports so that they can verify it in one day, and those who don't have that knowledge and don't have that kind of time spent in this, I would say to a specialized, crafts, and also to a professional field, they should take an exam, but not with the alliance. The Ministry of Finance, as it has done with the audit institution, should appoint one commission consisting of the most innovative or best experts of accounting professors from the Faculty of Economics, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and perhaps representatives of all these associations or associations of professional accounting associations that do so. If only this alliance and three employees do so, they will have to hire some professionals. Some professional faces will have to be paid for. I am absolutely sure that this alliance will not do so for free, or it will not only work for the price of services that lecturers, interrogators, or anyone else should provide. If we did this would be incomparably better, it would be cheaper, and it would be for the benefit of the accountants, and therefore also for the benefit of Serbia's economy. This is now a good opportunity to tell you, you've been taking it out in public, and I think the current director of the Tax Administration, as the reform in the Tax Administration has been done well. I don't think he's saying everything's wrong. Of course that's not true, but the goal is to get the IRS closer to Serbia's citizens. But what they did now, so it seems 167 to me, or maybe there were 177 branches of the tax administration in Serbia, then reduced to 67, so somewhere now around 37. Perhaps it is for you, Mr. Minister, well, there may be some savings for the state of Serbia, but it is not good for the citizens of Serbia. I can give an example of the municipality from which I come, that it is 70 kilometers away from Loznica, the farthest village from the municipality seat is 40 kilometers away, that's 110 kilometers away. And, if there's any confirmation that he's reconciled his tax obligations, he has to go to Loznica for that confirmation, and then for some things to achieve his rights, it'll be quite late. Do something for the citizens of Serbia. The roads are a good thing. I always tell the truth. I'm coming from Love this morning, and it made me a little happy, in one part of the road I'm traveling, every fourth vehicle was a freight truck. It used to be not like that, it goes 10 and 15 vehicles, it's good now, it means it's something to do, but there are citizens who don't even have trucks that don't even go on the highway every day, who don't go to high schools, colleges, PhDs or anything like that, but live a normal life, a decent man. Take a look at you, too. They'll be grateful to you. We MPs of the SRS who represent their interests, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61569	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61570	Thank you very much. We've heard some incorrect information, so I just want to discuss it. With all due respect to you, we may not have understood each other, although I've already discussed it and I'll repeat it again. There is no one organisation that issues licences. Therefore, any member of the International Federation of Accountants shall have the right to issue licences. At this point in Serbia, there are two institutions dealing with this, the Chamber of Authorised Auditors and the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia. If, meanwhile, a third, fourth, fifth, 20th, becomes a member of the International Federation of Accountants and will also have the possibility of licensing. So it was the legislator's wish in this case that was to disable the monopoly you're talking about, so I didn't really, to be honest, understand why you only have one potential when there are two at this point, and there's no problem there is not going to be 22. In doing so, I just said, at this point you have 187 members of the International Federation of Accountants in any of 177, Republika Srpska has one, Montenegro has one, you can get a license. You might be talking about some previous law that was a few years ago, so some monopoly that was then, right now this very law makes it impossible for such a monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61571	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Sreto Peric, right to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61572	Minister, if I wasn't a serious man, I'd say you're a bit of a screamer. Well, the law here is fully defined who can give, not to say, licenses. (Sinisha Mali: Who can? ) Well, they can give these two institutions that are members of international organisations. So you don't expect the one from Subotica from Surdulica or I don't know where I'm going to go to lay in Republika Srpska or they might agree, so you invite him to come to Serbia? Your intentions are quite clear here, not to prevent me from being convinced, not only by me, but you can't convince the largest number of accountants present and potential, to believe that what you're talking about is not in some way by creating a monopoly. This facility you force, then it deals with some other activity, and you didn't ban it, and when are we going to show up third, fourth, fifth in Serbia? Well, you don't know that. Even Gekna can't imagine when she'll be there. You do very well, Mr. Minister, do it. You know exactly who he's referring to, and then you explain to me that I'm mistaken, that we didn't understand each other. We had a great understanding of everything. You're just wrong this time. You're wrong and coming or going, that someone now, some accountant, is going to lay down for certification, where in Brussels? What I said and my few latest accounts were that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be exclusively in the interests of the Serbian citizens, so that includes the way in which the license is obtained for accountants and others. We know great, we read material, we prepare, we know who in Serbia can now issue a license or a certificate. They don't like the license, but good doesn't matter, we know what it's about. We know that only two institutions and we know that there are as many of you in the world as you said, that's what a colleague in his presentation said that we haven't read the material, we would know exactly that it is. Don't point it out, it's already a little bit of an act of those who do this job great, do it better than I do, and you do it, because we're doing something else, and they know what it's all about. You had suggestions to resolve it this way, not as you suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61573	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The minister has a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61574	Thank you very much. I'm just glad that you're correcting yourself, that it's not one organization, but two, and that's why there's no monopoly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61575	Thank you, Minister. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61576	Mr. Minister, you've made it very clear to me that I would like to applaud you for an extremely good answer. But, you see, that applause will wait a little while, I'm not saying that sometimes you may not get a round of applause from Serbian radicals, if not before you resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61577	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Now the word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61578	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Mali, Mr Mali, you have been exposed these days along with Minister of Interior, Mr Stefanovic, to unjustly the media's bestial attacks. You should not be concerned about that, Mr. Minister, when you see who these media bestial attacks come from, neither you nor Minister Stefanovic. We give you full and unreserved support that you are still, both of you, and so far, giving all your working abilities for a better life and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. As far as the law is concerned, let me just say two sentences that the introduction of state aid control is in the function of stopping a subsidy race between EU Member States and doing fair and competitive. They're important subsidies to us, too. By the time the SNS arrived, subsidies were used, but nothing was done. Let me tell you that a former prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia has damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia with subsidies of 533 thousand euros just because he was calamating the vine on the grass, and that is Mr. Zivkovic, who is now looking here from the assembly rooms what we are saying. So much for subsidies. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, and today, you mentioned 2014 as a turning point for all these economic gains we now have. You're absolutely right, because by the time Alexander Vukic arrived at the head of the Prime Minister, we found a country that was totally economic, industrial, infrastructureally devastated. I would like to ask the gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, who are watching from the Assembly's premises now, is this true or not? Secondly, that it was without the safety and security of its citizens, that we found a country that was humiliated, a country without plans and programmes, a country without hope and the faith of its citizens in a better future, a country with too much responsibility, a country with collapsed, completely destroyed state institutions, a country with no international reputation and a country where robbery privatisation led to bankruptcy. Then, by the arrival of Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister and by setting up the programs that you mentioned yesterday and today, which is so-called. The "expose" of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which I have been talking about here for days, and now I repeat, that it was the most transparent, most concrete, precise, best and greatest of all previous governments in Serbia's modern history. Another information, most on all elements realised by all of the government's current programs. Let me say, quote from that exposé so we can figure out what's on the agenda today today and yesterday. The then Prime Minister, and current President Aleksandar Vukic, on page 9, said, "The fiscal consolidation measures of the budget deficits will drop at a sustainable 3% to 4% of GDP by the end of 2017, leading to the halting of public debt growth at 75% of GDP and the beginning of its gradual decline. “ And this sentence is very important, and continues the president of the then government, and now the President of the Republic: “Then the state will become stable in terms of economic parameters. ” Is it true, gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, that you are looking at from these assembly rooms, whether this or not? I don't have time to tell you that it's been realized in many elements and 120 percent of that program, but we'll do it another time. I ask you, gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, are these the parameters achieved or not, even better? Answer, not in this assembly hall, because you will not come, to face the truths in the last three or four years, especially, but to respond to press conferences, do you have at least a little political correctness, political culture and academic, civil or parliamentary congratulation to get up or to a press conference to apologize to the Prime Minister and today's president of the state for all the things that you have muddyed these exposés? I must disappoint you, I will repeat it again, it is the only government programme in Serbia's recent history quoted in an international magazine on the Scimago list. To be quoted, the language had to be translated into an entire exposé, not in a shortened version. Now let me say it at the end. Our political opponents, and they called me, too, that I said that time would be measured in the last 20 years after Alexander Vukic, and that's true. Last time I spoke, but let me, since the subject is now to say. This is the time I said, how we found power, and this second time since 2014, just let me say one thing. So, I first said that it was, and there was a country of economic, industrial, infrastructure-disastered, and after Alexander Vukic's arrival at the head of the government, the country opened 138km of highways, 480km of state roads, 360km of local roads, a total of 970 and 311 bridges rehabilitated etc. I don't want to talk about how many schools, how many homes in all parliaments. And already today, in many economic magazines, time is measured, in 20 years, before the arrival of him as Prime Minister and after the arrival of Alexander Vukic, before the arrival of the country when it is devastated and now, accelerated modernisation. The only thing I don't understand is why the Alliance of Serbia is jealous that the state is moving forward. I didn't see any theory, no practice, anywhere. They tell us too – your president. I never told Tadic – their president. It proves their statehood. Let me, in the end, leave time for others, that is best said about them by Svetislav Bashar, former Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia, 21 May of May 2019, he told all variants of DS, quote – The Democratic Party is a self-government and interested community of mules and thieves. It's a finished quote. Respected citizens of Serbia have destroyed our past, destroyed our future, stopped the future of our children, and if they had stayed in power for a little or another year, they would have destroyed our roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61579	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61580	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dejan Radenkovic, said in his presentation that the SPS parliamentary group would support all the laws of the second joint search and stressed the importance these laws have for the SPS parliamentary group, and I will refer to the Audit Act in my presentation. The provision of financial report audit services in the Republic of Serbia was regulated by the Revision Act, which entered into force on 24 July 2013 and the sublaws for its implementation. The basic reasons, as we could hear today, for the creation of a new Revision Act, are to comply with the requirements of new EU rules, which regulate this area and remove the observed shortcomings in the application of existing legal solutions. The draft law pays particular attention to the issue of the internal organisation of the audit society. The draft law defines the quality control of the work of licensed, authorised auditors, audit companies and independent auditors to be transferred to the Commission's competence for securities of value, which increases the independence of control. A system of sanctions has been improved which will de-simulatedly act and prevent future behaviours that would jeopardise the objective and quality provision of audit services in the work relating to the measures in the quality control process of the audit company, independent auditors and licensed audit firms. The application of the current Revision Act has shown that certain shortcomings in regulation and enforcement of the law in practice exist. First of all, it is necessary to introduce a newspaper into an existing public surveillance system in order to improve it and to have stronger powers, particularly in terms of quality control and sanctions. It is necessary to simplify the system of voicing measures to companies for audit and licensed authorised auditors, in the sense that the control of the measures, if necessary, takes place more effectively and to speed up the procedure. New provisions have been introduced in the law, which define the subject of review, professional ethics, professional skepticism, the home Member State, independence and objectivity, as well as provisions that will begin with the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. There have been comments regarding this provision, but I think for us, for the state, no matter when we enter the EU, it is important that we arrange our country, so whenever it is. In the new legal solution, a more detailed obligation to keep a company's business secret for audit and licensed authorised auditors during legal audits has been regulated. In order to raise the quality of the audit report, the scope of the measures, penalties that can be imposed for non-compliance with the laws and rules of the profession, as well as their effectiveness, has been improved. The bill prohibits convicted legal and natural persons and their associated persons, as well as their associates, from being the founders and owners of the audit company. The Commission and the finance ministry will have ultimate responsibility for the quality of the audit in the Republic of Serbia. The transfer of competences on quality control will simplify and speed up the procedure for the control and sanctions of audit companies and auditors for failure to comply with the provisions of the laws and rules of the profession. Instead of three institutions, the procedure will take place within one institution – the Securities Commission. In order to exercise these competences, and under the agreement, the Commission will take over persons employed in the chamber of authorised auditors in quality control operations. The quality control system will be established in a more independent, more efficient, more effective manner and in line with best professional practice. The draft audit law also provides for the minimum form of the audit report. Any proposed changes should contribute to improving the quality of the audit reports, which should result in an improvement in the quality of financial reports, which will positively affect all economic operators, but also state bodies and institutions, as well as foreign and domestic investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61581	Thank you. The word is from the National MP Dr Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61582	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Mali, respected guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, ahead of us this week is a set of economic laws, which point to Serbia's economic progress, among other things, and a surplus budget of 46.6 billion, which will be allocated to, as you said, an increase in wages in the public sector, to pay off one-off pensioners of 5,000 dinars, assistance to citizens who were in charge of Swiss francs and capital investments. As this budget money will be spent, these laws define and control it. I must point out that economic activity in 2019 remains on the growth vector, which began in early 2015. This quarter of January-July 2019 will be the eighteenth, I repeat, eighteenth consecutive quarter in which business activity records growth. Professor Atlagic in his presentation, I will not say that he gave me a creamy word because it is a German word, and in the Serbian parliament should use Serbian words, so I will say he gave me a good introduction when he mentioned the exposés of the then candidate for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, in August 2016, addressing here in parliament. I quote, from 2008 to 2012, we had the wrong economic policy in which we insisted on increasing GDP growth by increasing imports and, secondly, domestic consumption, but economic logic changed and growth in the coming period was achieved by the first investments and the second by increasing imports. An even more important fact is that there has been a change in the structure of our exports to the EU. The most important export products are no longer primary agricultural products, but industrial products. Serbia is most exporting to EU Member States, 63.6% and those who want to become CEFTA, 21.1%. So, I have to say, now it occurred to me, Kin de Hang -- some countries in a world where, in such short time, she managed to get out of the crisis she was in. So there's no country in the world that got out of the crisis as fast as Serbia. The 2019 budget was adopted in line with efforts to maintain what economists say, macroeconomic stability, a sustainable fiscal system and healthy economic growth say. GDP growth in the first quarter is 2.7 as a result of accelerated economic activity of 2.9 in the second quarter, a half-year growth of 2.8 was achieved. The projected GDP growth rate for 2019 was maintained at 3.5. This kind of movement is primarily the result of the commitment of President Alexander Vukic and the Government in terms of increasing the number of jobs. The labour market in 2019 is marked by extremely favourable movements. The unemployment rate reached a low level of 10.3% in the second quarter, down 1.6 compared to the same quarter last year. Total employment was greater by 0.7%. In addition to a significant reduction in the unemployment rate and growth of total employment, there has been a marked and structural improvement in the labour market. For example, the youth unemployment rate dropped by 27.5 to 24.4 while women fell by 1.6% to 11%. Also, the growth in the number of private sector employees by 4.1% and 58.5,000, respectively, while in the public sector it was reduced by 1.2% and 7.4 thousand dinars respectively. So this is where I speak the language of numbers. The figures dominate mathematics, and since the economy is mathematics, I think it is one of the most difficult subjects in the economy of mathematics, means the figures speak in favour of the accelerated growth of the Republic of Serbia. As for the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, in section 30, as my esteemed colleague, Milanka, has separated 120 billion dinars, of which eight billion for maternity care. Nine percent of that figure will be to increase wages, but what's important, what I have to potential is to equalise salaries to medical workers employed in social protection institutions with medical workers employed in medical institutions. One hundred fifty million is set aside for foster families. All this stuff I've been talking about, we can bring it down to the local level. So, for example, my city of Nis had a budget rebalance in August, where financial consolidation was indicated. First, profit tax revenues from the first to the sixth month of 2019 are higher by 402 million dinars compared to the same period of the previous year. This is also understandable when it comes to the fact that in 2015 there were 2,995 active companies, and in 2018 3,718. The number of entrepreneurs in 2015 was 7.614, and in 2018 9.513. The number of unemployed in 2012 was 36,104, and in 2018 23,106, and the number of employees in 2012 was 61,806, and now 79,285. In the end, let me just mention the capital investments that are touching my city. First, we have the end of the eastern arms of Corridor 10, so the leg for Bulgaria, which will be released either this month or next month. Then, a leg for Northern Macedonia, or Greece, was completed. Third, moving the railway line out of the city, so-called. Point Popovac – Average, as well as the construction of two railway stations at the airport and Pantelija. What is very important is the start of work on the Nis – Merdare highway, and as regards the modernisation of the Nis – Dimitrovgrad railway, as well as investments in the airport "Constantin Veliki", about it some other time. So I can conclude that the Latin dictatorship – all roads lead to Rome, can be replaced – all roads of water to Nis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61583	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61584	Are we on the second item of the agenda, Mr. Marinkovic? (President: Yes, we are. ) We Serbian radicals have nothing against the creation of institutions and organisations that are in accordance with the law of this country, but we are deeply against the disrespect of the functioning of these institutions and violations of the law. Whether or not, when it comes to executive power, it cannot be attributed to coincidences. It can only be attributed to most of the intention. We're for introducing order when it comes to, specifically, state aid. There must be transparency in the functioning of this system, where the state singles out no small funds, one way or another, and these funds are used, and the records, when you want to look at it, are always incomplete or inaccessible, etc. A good proposal, among other things, is for it to be outside the finance ministry, as the minister says, because there should be respect for that objectivity that is needed, because one who participates in the grant of these aids, tax exemption or otherwise cannot be objective when it comes to controlling spending. The finance ministry must bear the highest responsibility when it comes to the control of the total allocations under state aid, and this must be exposed to the public, it must be available to all, especially parliament. That they are not respected and that decisions on the functioning of institutions are consistently not implemented may be the best example when it comes to the draft auditors. We have a major problem in the revision, namely in the control of the functioning of the financial system of the public sector, starting with local self-government, across the province, to the Republic, not losing sight of the fact that it includes public services, or public enterprises. State auditors are overloaded with the work they're doing and perhaps, in part, someone right here who said the DRI reports look like they were done by order because what means objectivity and what means something more detail is the objectivity of more detailed research, or control, it's missing for a simple reason because physically it can't be done, it's too few people doing that job. We who are on the parent financial committee are witnesses when reporting, periodic reports from the DRI, that we simply cannot ask these people to carry out all the audits in this country in time or time. The point is not only that this physical deficit, which is very important, but is the essence of what it insists, especially we Serbian radicals from earlier we insisted that an internal audit be introduced. Internal audit is something that is beyond necessary to function the entire control system. We have here, say, at the level of local self-government, that there are internal audits or some commissions that are in the function of the audit, and then when the DRI comes, then there's been a lot of irregularities, that there's been illegal business, etc. When it turns into what is very important to us, these are huge sums of money used, that is, that is, against the law and against all regulations. What's the result of the auditor's work? The result, I'm talking about state auditors, is that we understand that as a precaution, they warn someone who has broken, someone who has not acted in accordance with the law. What's going on? Nothing's going on. Since the Ministry of Finance has jurisdiction, it has the authority to react in most cases, a small number of cases have been recorded where the ministry, using its legal authority, reacted by punishing or expressing any measure when it comes to lower levels of government, especially when it comes to public enterprises. We have drastic cases when it comes to control. We have a case in a public company. The official, the State Auditor, comments to the Director, who has been elected as usual, not according to his abilities and qualifications but in the largest number of party belongings, that the business of the public undertaking, which he heads, is not in line with the statute of the public undertaking. Imagine, after a few minutes of leaving the room, the director of the public company returns and tells the auditor that he solved the problem by physically destroying the statute and the statute does not exist physically and the problem is solved. The auditor, a man who had great experience never had it in his practice, was surprised, thought it was an unsaved joke, and he said – sir, the statute cannot be destroyed physically. Instead of sanctioning, instead of taking steps on the basis of the auditor's report on irregular business, the director remains current. It's one of these tarot economists, the ones who throw cards when they look at the economy or look at the beans, when they drink coffee in a cup, so they learn the economy. That's how he got his degree, and then he took the position of director, and to this day he's in that position. Internal audit is very important, very important for the functioning of the financial system and what is most important – the fight against money laundering, the fight to prevent terrorism is largely based on internal control, especially systems that are under direct control by the executive or in some way under the control of the Ministry of Finance and must be done. In this bill, it is neither easy nor easy to obtain a licence when it comes to accounting, or those who are going to deal with it and who are dealing with it, especially when it comes to auditors. There must be order and there is a clear view that they cannot accounting for people who own only the program, when they enter into the program, then they get the results of their knowledge from accounting. In that licence, it must be clearly distinguished to those who have qualifications, those who know from those who need to appreciate experience, but do not have the necessary knowledge and do not have the necessary diploma. It's gotta be done. We don't mind, but it has to be objective. It cannot, in principle, be as notaries or as perpetrators, be produced and manufactured by those who will run accounting and who will engage in audits on this principle. We draw your attention to that in time, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61585	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Now the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have been proposed to be a judge and to punish, either him or the Ministry. I'm not getting into it. I understood well my colleagues who spoke before me. So you're required to punish the minister. There are inspection bodies, there are judges for violations, there are recommendations to DRI to local self-governments, congregations, units of local self-government, but do not violate the legal order in the Republic of Serbia, especially not constitutional ones. Mr. Minister, a lot of things have been said here today, but there's something I need to tell you. Those who are against e-business and who suspect that this is possible in the Republic of Serbia are only for one reason – they are afraid of being electrocuted as they type on the computer. That's the only reason they're against electronic business. That fear must be overcome because the civilization's fluids are moving forward, and Serbia is not in prehistory, thank God. If they want to stay there, let them stay in the Union of Communists, because I heard that we are a country of workers and peasants, etc., and I think we are a country of citizens of Serbia and that all citizens are equal before the law. Mr. Minister, you are giving the National Assembly a single instrument to control the work of your ministry, and my colleagues in the opposition say they don't need it. So, the responsibilities of the National Assembly and each MP are increased individually and the opposition says it is not necessary. When I was an opposition MP, I wish I had all these instruments, but I had to go through and look through all kinds of documents, check and read all kinds of sites to get some data to discuss how the executive government works, how their actions are, how their mistakes are, what their abuses are. We now offer to the opposition and to every MP, of course, who supports the government, that he can control the Ministry of Finance, that he can control how state aid is being implemented and someone refuses. I will only read that this Commission for State Aid Control is responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed by the law. That's not controversial. Who chooses the members of the Commission? Well, here, in Article 12, point 3. - the decision to elect a President of the Commission or a Member of the National Assembly shall take the majority of the votes of all Members of Parliament, on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for financial affairs. On the proposal of the Committee of our Working Body, who are once again Members of Parliament. The president of the National Assembly, who is a National MP, is calling for a contest. And that's their suspicion. No, it's best to do it, like it's done so far, or I guess it's regrettable of past times, that the state, or government, is the almighty one, who can and must do everything. Those times are over. And that's their ideological biggest problem. The times of the Communist Union have passed. We now live in a normal democratic state, establishing real values in this society. We'll talk about it a little later, what it's like to attack some bill just to attack. But I'm surprised my fellow MPs from the opposition don't want to strengthen the control and control role of the National Assembly. It's our constitutional jurisdiction. I guess that's why the citizens chose us. This is the purpose not only of passing laws, but of controlling the work of the executive authority. I don't want to get into what the auditor reports are like. Well, what can they be like, dude? How can they be? But we're going to convince the anecdotes that happen. Just so you know, the state auditor informs the National Assembly, informs the Serbian public of any irregularities, can recommend that some executive be replaced, but the National Assembly and the local self-government units are not obliged to act on it, because they are holders of the sovereignty of citizens. And don't humiliate yourself anymore. There have been further discussions and, you know, whenever by some law we try to edit some matter a little better, to improve, to call on good experiences and countries in the region and EU countries, we always attack and always the government is attacked that we adopt these laws for EU membership. Here, I'll say it right now -- it's not primarily and it's not the most important thing. We are passing laws solely for the sake of the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens, let them learn it once. These laws governing the field of accounting and audit have been attacked, they say - they are EU directives, etc. Now I ask the question -- here, we have several investors, there are more of them, but I'm going to say only three-four, "Belgrade Airport", "Bos", Germany, etc., not to list these companies, they're doing some work in Serbia, they're connected persons with their parent companies, but now I'm interested in whether these companies, not to apply international accounting standards, profits and profits they make in Serbia can be shown in the credits of these companies? Here, I say I can't. And if one's credit card, and he invested money in Serbia, can't be shown in his business, in the securities market, whether they're owners, whether they're debtors, we're not getting into it, it's not going to invest in Serbia. Now they're gonna say -- you know, but they're foreign companies, which we don't care about. Okay, let's say that that assumption is true. We're coming up with another problem. If we have a serious company in Serbia, where is the sole owner of a resident or citizen of the Republic of Serbia, a group of citizens, etc., I will not enter into the form of this company, can it, if it does not apply international accounting standards, raise a credit abroad to a bank that does not operate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Here, I'm saying he can't. He may have to raise more unfavourable loans on the domestic market because we did not provide for our laws to apply international accounting standards. But that's why we're gonna blow up across the EU, it's falling apart, it's like this, and we're forgetting that we're all elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we're supposed to be in their interest first, not for some political or economic regional organisation, international or not. The interests of Serbian citizens should be our first priority. There was also a discussion about this famous Accounting Act. I must tell you here, Mr. Minister, there is a great deal of anxiety in one section of the expert public regarding the field of accounting and these famous licences that are issued, which, in the interpretation of some, should be issued. Most of all, the Secretary of the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, Mr. Pero Scobic, who in several articles met the accountants and auditors that they would have to subscribe, what he gave in his interview, to subscribe to publications issued by the Union of Accountants and Auditors, that they would have to go to seminars in order to, my God, know the legislation that is changing rapidly, so they need constant training and that they are constantly improving their knowledge. They would perfect their knowledge by going to these seminars, where they would collect a number of points and with a number of points they would gain the right to extend the licence or to call an accountant or auditor. Therefore, for this reason, the uninformedness of a part of our public has raised a great deal of dust and that performance that Mr. Škobić had recently, ten days ago. To be clear, it doesn't make sense that there are accounting agencies that carry out this activity without having any employees. Let's get this straight. How can someone do some work, do a favor, not have any employees? That's not normal. Or it's about abuse, abuse of law. It can all be legal, but it can be abuse of law. That's why it's a good thing that this register is finally being introduced that's going to be public, everyone's going to have an insight into it. It is a good thing that unlike the 2004 law, the monopoly that the Union of Accountants and auditors had with the adoption of that law in 2004 and who had these bad experiences, how they acted in the Union of Accountants and Auditors towards their members, where they literally peeled their skin off their backs, made one serious problem when the law was passed. So it can be laid down with two organisations in Serbia, it can be in any, anywhere in the world that meets the requirements of our law, which is that it is a member of the International Federation of Accountants and Auditors. What is most important is the supervision of the work of the ministry and there will be no abuse in eradicating the accounting officer's calling. That may be the biggest problem in this whole story. So it's no problem for someone to get a call, the problem is that once they prove their knowledge, they don't have to prove it every year, because we don't change the laws every year in one area, and he's going to perfect himself through the work he's doing, because that's something normal. And the medicine progresses, I didn't know that doctors had to take some tests all the time, the electrical engineering progressed, I didn't know that engineers had to keep proving their knowledge, and I didn't see why the Union of Accountants and Auditors and any other similar organizations would have any extra powers than any other organizations involved. We often change laws, so here's the area of justice, the area and criminal law, the Code of Criminals, I haven't heard that some judge has retaken a judicial exam or a prosecutor's attorney's office, so I think even when they get that knowledge, they don't have to prove it all the time. I say that the public was most upset by the very appearance of representatives of the Union of Accountants and Auditors, and therefore there was so much pressure on fellow MPs and on members of the Working Group and on the Minister himself. But to repeat, we are not only making laws to become an EU member, but we are first and foremost making laws for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia and Serbia and these three laws are also in favour of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61587	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61588	That Mr. Arsic was by chance right, and he was wrong, and when he said that we think that the government should control everything, I didn't understand it correctly, it was difficult, but the question is, and even if we thought so, how is it possible that he's been in that system for seven years? What he hasn't said in the first day – hey, people, change this law, we can't be in this bad system for seven years, communist, what he mentioned, I have no idea. You are all wondering why Mr. Arsic has started his debate so angryly and why he is angry. I'll tell you a secret. A few months ago, while these draft laws were in the drafts, then the Society of Accountants and Auditors had some big gathering, some public debate on these bill proposals and was Arsic and said – while he, such proposals, would not come to the Assembly. He vote for this, he never gives God. And a million remarks he had, Mr. Mali, more than we gave you, the more Arsic had objections. Now, since I highly appreciate Arsic, I want to help him, so he doesn't have a problem in the voting day. Dear colleague Arsic, when the vote comes up, put on a rubber glove, because you're going to push the button, so you don't get electrocuted, because you're going to press the button opposite of what you said two months ago that you're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61589	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61590	I'd like to know what's going on here, but at least we have a good I.D. What I didn't say and what didn't happen, don't say you're putting it in my mouth. That's the first thing. The other thing, as far as I'm concerned, is that I'm glad to finally identify the one who's afraid of the computer from being electrocuted. Here, that's the fear that exists. So, the best thing to do is to stay in the time of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia or Serbia, or whatever you want, is to live in that system and give up democracy and everything just to keep that ideology going.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61591	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61592	Now I don't know what Arsic would say, what's going on, but let's see what's going on. It's amazing that this story has anything to do with whether anyone knows how to work computers or not. What does that have to do with systems? What does it have to do with the Communist Union? He will still resent the Communist Party of China and the People's Republic of China for being at the top of the world when it comes to this advanced technology. Something, colleague Arsic, has gone very wrong. What's going on, what you said, if necessary, I can bring in an audio record, a stenogram anyway, so let's see what's going on, i.e.. What's this about?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61593	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61594	It wasn't counseling, it was a discussion on the Finance Committee, let's get this straight right now. It wasn't said how it was passed to you, I'm sorry they didn't tell you right, that's not my problem. As far as the Communist Party of China is concerned, every nation has the right to determine in what environment to develop and I have nothing against it. Don't try to fight me with China. I am surprised that here one opposition party does not want to control the government of the Republic of Serbia and whatever is proposed, except that it probably writes the name or name of the parliamentary group or the name of the political party, and if that is not the name of their political party or their parliamentary group, it will be attacked here. At least when they attack, let them attack with something that makes sense, not to ask fellow MPs to give up the powers that come under the State Aid Control Act, because I really don't understand it. So all of these government agencies, etc., so you can't participate in a market where there's competition and that you're sorting that market yourself without some regulatory body. That's impossible. This was only the time of the Communist Union, and that is why I wonder – is it an ideological tendency to do so? Then the state controlled everything, regulated everything, all the criteria, there was no market that was not state and did not need regulatory bodies. I guess he wants us to go back to social property and that the state is doing everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61595	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The right to a replica has Mrs. Vervain Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61596	Let's really get this straight from the beginning. Mr. Arsic says -- he's glad someone who doesn't know how to use a computer, I don't know. But, Mr. Arsic, see that over there? Empty, no one's here. You see this right here? The opposition parliamentary group, the largest opposition political party. You see, there's 30 of you here today, while there's Minister Sinisha Mali. You've all praised the laws, the suggestions, we've been critical about the proposals, and if you say—those who are against, who else is to be recognized, they won't be benches? Of course you were thinking about us, but not because we, colleague Arsic, know something or don't know, we know a lot more than you do, believe me, and you know that. But don't turn the story into something that has nothing to do with reality. We want to take away the right of the People's MPs? First, what you're talking about, no one's even got it yet. The law is in debate, so it hasn't been adopted yet, first you learn that, as vice president of parliament. As long as the law is not published in "The Official Messenger", it does not exist, it does not apply. That's all you need to know. Secondly, we don't take any rights away from anyone, if anyone is fighting for the rights of the MPs of the people, then it's the SRS. It is you who take away the rights of the People's MPs through this contrived Rules of Procedure and through its misapplication and the kind of carad. So, I'd ask you, I know what I said, if you didn't like it, about this, I didn't say that you were at counseling, I said that there was some expensive thing, I didn't define it at all. So, you may have been at counseling counseling that I don't know about, as soon as you say it wasn't counseling, it was the board. I said it was expensive. What's his name? What's up, buddy? There, I know Martinovic where he was. So, we can talk about these bill proposals, we can talk about whatever you want, we're dealing with politics here, here, now fellow Martinovic is going to replicate, to get involved, but don't. I mean, it's not nice, you didn't insult us for saying whether we know or not, whether we're afraid of electricity or not. You know, ever since that joke, when you were a Serbian radical, when I think, Rade Obradović, or something like that, I mean when you were talking to your colleague Arsic, you said -- you radicals have fat fingers you don't know how to turn on your computer. Is that how Natasha was? So, let go, it's 12 years old, give me something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61597	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Veroljub Arsic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61598	I don't understand something here, really. Here, I admit, I really don't understand. So I really don't understand. This way, the understanding of parliamentary life and parliamentary struggle is next. The opposition should criticise the law, well, okay, I agree. Those who support the government of the Republic of Serbia should defend the law and legal provisions, as anyone knows, as well as the opposition to attack as it knows, how it can, etc. But that doesn't mean that I understand it so much, that none of the MPs should pay attention to their colleague's discussion, whether he attacks or defends the law. Well, I'm not just gonna talk to the minister, I'm gonna talk to the MPs, I'm gonna talk to those who don't think the same way I do, and I'm gonna talk to them, and I'm gonna cross-reference the arguments. Now, I say again, don't put words in my mouth I didn't say. We are offered this bill of law to control how the state spends the aid it gives to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're going into procedure now, you know that's when the official messenger is, when this is, when it's that. I didn't even say that. We are offered this law. Why don't we adopt him for that. Now, it seems to me that there's a problem here, that fellow MPs cannot ideologically find a connection with the laws, so we're entering into an unnecessary width about all of it. So once again I'm going to ask the question, there's a possibility that there's an electronic invoice, an option, who's going to attack it normally. It's not a commitment, it's a possibility. So he can, he doesn't have to. Now that's the problem. How's the dispatch going? I guess someone who's a lawyer with so much experience knows that a first business relationship would have to be signed first. The second thing, the goods must be delivered, to prove the authenticity of that electronic invoice, followed by the invoice. Now that's the problem, whether it's gonna be stamped, stamped, in paper, electronic form. Well, I guess the one who's going to pay for the goods or the service by that electronic invoice won't let the money go unless the goods or services are done. How's he gonna pay? No, you can write to me as much as you want, prove you did that favor, or give me the stuff. But that's the problem. So, I'm sorry, gentlemen, we seem to have a problem with these fat fingers of mine, I don't think they're that fat that I can't turn on my computer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61599	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61600	Three times, counterpart Arsic says the SRS ideology does not fit the Accounting Act. I'm not, I'm thinking, how, what does accounting have to do with ideology and then I realize, Arsic's ideology is accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61601	Thank you. The word is Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61602	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, these days when we talk about finance, about the extra money that needs to be deployed, we can say that this majority and government in this time which is not even a little simple for our people have done a lot to increase and improve the quality of our citizens' lives. What I particularly want to stress as a traffic engineer is the construction of a road infrastructure, which has many positive effects, from increasing road safety, reducing transport time, to creating conditions for investment and new jobs to be opened throughout our country. I would especially like to highlight those routes linking the Serbian people in Montenegro and Republika Srpska. Also, I want to say a few words about what is deeply rooted in our genetic code, which is innovation and technological development. Serbia is known as a country with a long-term and world-renowned tradition of engineering education and knowledge. Our nation gave St. Nicholas Tesla, Milutin Milankovic, Michael Pupin and many others. These are examples that our nation, although not numerically large, has ideas and powers that can change the course of civilization. Today, Serbian engineers in all radar areas at the world's most prestigious universities and companies, their knowledge from the root changes industrial practices and makes life easier for millions. The potential that our country has in terms of talent, creativity and the expertise of young people has become synonym for Serbia, and their entrepreneurial ventures become global innovation champions who change the world. For the past two years, since the Office for Innovation and Technological Development was established, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with strong support from the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, has done much to achieve the objectives set in this area. The Innovation Budget has been increased ten times since 2018. According to the world's most reputable research agency for start-up ecosystems, the start-up of the San Francisco giant, our country is among the top five in the world according to the quality of the engineering frame. In 2018 250 million dinars were allocated to build regional innovation startup centres, so young technology entrepreneurs from Cačka, Stara Pazova, Pirota and many other cities will have the most modern conditions and mentoring support for the development of their ideas. Exports of information and communication services in 2018 reached a record billion and 135m euros, up from 26% compared to 2017. Six capital facilities are built of strategic importance worth 60m euros, such as the Novo Sad Science and Technology Park, Nis and others. A stable and well-coordinated innovation ecosystem is the key to growing our greatest development potential, and these are young people, entrepreneurs, engineers, innovators and experts in different areas. Finally, there are many examples in the world where countries' economic growth is the most based on innovation and knowledge, such as Israel being the leader of the world when it comes to innovation from the startup communities. Also, Israel is an excellent example of how the country develops and notes significant economic growth under difficult, war circumstances. This is an example that should continue to follow Serbia, defending its most important national and state interests, which gives investors additional security and confidence in the country, will lead to accelerated economic growth and job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61603	Thank you, Mr. Patnovic. Now the word has Dr Milan Ljubic. He's not there. The word is Mr. Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61604	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Mali with his associates, my discussion today will be directed towards the State Aid Control Act. Before I make my point about the law in question, I need to refer to some events and phenomena that seem to have nothing to do with this law, which are essentially very connected. A few days ago, one of the biggest Fitch Ratings rating agencies improved Serbia's credit rating from BB to BB-plus. The International Monetary Fund has assessed economic movements as very favourable, and business environments as significant, improved, so they see us in the world. A poll conducted by the media, which is not very fond of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, with foreigners who visited Belgrade in the square disputed by the rest of the opposition, showed that these foreigners expressed enthusiasm with the appearance of the Square. Again, everything is beautiful in the eyes of neutral observers, only for some in Serbia who probably haven't cleared up with them, this is not visible. Yesterday one, on one television, says – Vukica supports the West, as if it were something negative. Today, Alexander Vukic is also supported by the West, the East, the EU, Russia and China. Isn't that the goal of every policy? But back to the State Aid Control Act. I come from an environment where state aid for domestic and foreign businesses was very important. When it comes to state aid, there is always a degree of underdevelopment, which is the side of the medal that is inherited by previous authorities. We, as well as the state, as well as Leskovac as local self-government, have approached this issue very responsibly. In the middle of which it was most important to create new jobs and thus finally start to develop, after 2012, we participated in development through business subsidies that employed several thousand Leskovcans. The town of Leskovac also renovated these facilities that had been destroyed for decades and put them into economic drive where the businessmen started and continued their production activities, employed people and thus allowed the existence and stay in the hometown. Unfortunately, the number of devastated objects we found in 2012 was huge. The previous government has been cutting and selling without criteria, companies are corrupt, and then abandoned. We have left an obligation to reconstruct and drive economic facilities devastated at the time of the previous government. State subsidies and aid, both countries and local self-government, is of great importance to meet this objective. State aid is a public expenditure or a reduction of public income, but at the same time a necessary instrument in such an economic environment where all countries, especially in our neighbourhood, are interested in bringing investments. Competition in this respect between countries is huge, e.g. "Folksvagen" and our state, as the responsible state which aims to employ citizens and increase the national wealth and wealth of citizens in the end, of course participates in this game, and according to the information that is coming, it is very successful, because the state with the highest level of investment, both in the region and beyond. State aid is a public expenditure, but if it is wisely applied it returns multiple times, both through employment and through the introduction of new technologies and increasing state revenues as a result. Of course, the area needs to be more detailed, given the importance of the problem, especially for regions with a lower level of development such as southern Serbia. In order for the state aid procedure to be transparent, which is also the objective of our policy in all segments of the state's money available to taxpayers, the solutions set out in this law are in line with EU legislation, i.e. with the best legal solutions known in EU country legislation. It is very important to establish a fair competition, regardless of the geographical definition or origin of economic operators. This means the equality of domestic and foreign businesses, but an additional motive for domestic economic operators to more actively monitor and participate in state aid programmes and to be state aid users in the final instance and for the greater part than ever, which I personally and personally advocate. The main objective of this law is to streamline the spending of public money, invest in those projects that are important to the economy and society. I am proud to point out that it was the goal, motive and co-operation of local self-government, state and business entities in Leskovec, which literally changed the appearance of the town of Leskovec and made it a better place to live. Finally, Minister, I am sure this law will contribute to the arrival of new investors in Leskovac and the creation of new jobs leading to what is the next phase and the next goal of our work, which is a significant increase in the profits and living standards of the citizens of Leskovac and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61605	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61606	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am sorry that my colleague Ševarlic is not present, because I would like to explain to him how money is made and not just how it is spent. It's the easiest thing to be on the expense side. When we talk about state aid, as someone who's a beginner and someone who built an industrial zone in India, I think the best industrial zone, I know how much we missed state aid. At the time, political parties who do not have representatives here, boycotting parliament, mainly sold out state and social enterprises and sold out their entire capital. The companies sold, the workers fired. And, today when we talk about state aid, it is very necessary, it is necessary to build infrastructure, to make new industrial zones appear, to employ our population, and colleagues like Chevarlic need to know that in globalisation, where customs rates are burning in the world, that the means to work are very easy to move, that we are not alone for God's sakes. When they talk about cheap labor, they need to know that there are countries where workers work all day for one dollar, and today the means to work can be very easy to move, and we need to be careful here. Except state aid gold is valuable and dual education. To show potential investors that, apart from state-owned reliefs, they can come to a country with a qualified workforce that is skilled, which is resourceful and which is valuable, and that is shown throughout Western Europe. I think it's time that through the investments that come thanks to state aid, it shows it in its own country. Our people are worthy, honorable people, and if they have the chance of European peoples, they will also know how to take advantage. I am sorry that Mr. Ševarlic is not here to explain to him that at the time of the government that slaughtered 200,000 cows, that it was done, in my opinion, a cowocide, that very important state aid with subsidies incentives, because the whole common European agricultural policy rests on them. If our farmers enter the EU, if we join the EU, which is also burdened with some problems, if we reach a common European agricultural policy, our farmers will easily cut theirs, because at this point they have five times more support. With the support that European farmers have, we would soon have them, not only arrived, but arrived. Agricultural subsidies should not be granted to teachers of the Faculty of Agriculture, such as Mr. Chevarlic. At a time when subsidies were 19 billion, and today 44, Mr. Sevarlic received 62,000 euros from the Stara Planina livestock development project. I've repeatedly shown these documents with his signature, with invoices, and I'm saying they're correct. At the time, he didn't care about genetically modified organisms, or the amount of subsidies, or incentives, or whether it was 5% or just 2% of the budget. Today when incentives and the development of the agricultural budget is greater than 5%, when we add funds for cooperatives with Mr Krkobibic, these funds are far above 5%. Today, it bothers him, and I would rightly ask myself whether he is a farmer or still thinks that 62,000 euros should be allocated to some professors to support the failed agricultural policy that these yellow cockroaches have led. So I believe in agriculture, our plant potential, can help us make greater development. We're short on livestock. There are significant funds missing, because someone stole 200,000 cows and you can't have the production of milk or the production of beef in the quantities Serbia can have. We only have 0.33 conditional throats per hectare. If we took a European average we instead of a million and 650,000 conditional throats should have five million. The value of this live scale is about four billion. It's been processed not exactly into the final product, it's worth eight billion. Our slaughterhouses work with 30-40% capacity, and we have valuable people. We have plant potential, we have a slaughterhouse industry, we have agricultural land, we have pastures, we lack just a few more cattle, and we need to make more meat, milk and eggs. That production per hectare is not a thousand euros, but that it is four thousand euros. We also have only 20,000 vineyards. We in Triestenik and Drenova have very valuable people who make kalem wine vines in unlimited quantities. We even have abandoned agricultural land, even in state property that corresponds to vine plantations. We used to have 70,000 acres of wine in Serbia. We don't even have 20,000 right now. Our wines work with 30% capacity and these 30% fill with additional imports of grapes from Macedonia. To plant only 30,000 acres, we have our kalems, our land, our wineries, we just need our kalems to stab into our land, produce our grapes and put in our winery. At 30,000 hectares each year by selling wine, not top-notch, but serially, we have six million euros each year. That's why incentives are important and they can't be provided from the poor economy. As Serbia strengthens economically, subsidies as well as previous years in agriculture will grow bigger and bigger. It should subsidise agriculture, because agriculture and the economy, because agriculture and the economy will make money, and then we can all spend more and more together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61607	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61608	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will remain in my presentation at the proposal of the Accounting Act. You said, and we could also read that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business and the National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Securities and the Committee on Public Control of Audition and the Chamber of Commerce and the Authorised Auditors and the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, as well as all other interested professional, professional and academic public, participated in this law. I have had the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to speak to individual members of the Union of Accountants and the auditors of Serbia who support this law. The Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia has a large membership from all over southern Serbia, meaning members from Nis, from Leskovac, from Vranj and so on. The accounting profession, above all, carries out its activities in the public interest, since the public interest represents the wider social interest, i.e. the interests of the state, of the economy as well as of the citizens themselves. It is necessary for the accounting profession to carry out its activities with a high degree of expertise and ethics. This is extremely important because the results of the work of the accountants are not only used by their clients, i.e. employers, but are primary users of both countries and creditors, investors and business partners and all others who, based on financial, tax and audit reports, make significant business decisions and plans. Given that accountants also prepare tax balances and applications, it is clear how important this topic is and is very important for both the budget and the state to make their work as high and valid as possible. And in order to ensure this very high level of quality and ethics of the work of professional accountants, the law has just defined the conditions for it, and these conditions are, above all, reflected in the requirement of obtaining certification, where professional accountants prove their expertise in performing scratches. International standards and education for professional accountants, published by the IFAK International Federation of Accountants, shall apply for the purposes of the certification of an accounting officer at global level. Given that the quality of the work of professional accountants is closely linked to the interests of the state and the conduct of real tax policy, as well as the prevention of tax evasion and money laundering, the interests of creditors and business partners in order to truly and objective insight into the financial performance and position of business and business entities, as well as the interest of investors to improve security, transparency of the investment environment, it is clear that the certification of an accounting officer by recognised international standards of education is a necessary condition for encouraging general economic growth and investment in the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of investments, I want to say that GDP growth in 2018 was plus 4.4, which is one of the top ten results in Europe. Investments in 2019 are recordable and 40% are higher compared to 2018, which was also very successful and in which Serbia had more investment than everyone else in the region, and in 2019, these investments are even 40% higher, which is doubtless and unquestionable evidence of the success of our President Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, which is the government, which is also confirmed by the prominent "Fanessel Times". So today we are seen by a world that respects and respects Serbia, recently raising Serbia's additional credit rating to the level that is highest in history, so Serbia is the world leader in attracting investment. That is why the policy of the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, SNS policy, is not only a policy of success, but also a policy of national dignity and respect in the world. This policy conducted by President Aleksandar Vucic in modern Serbia has absolutely no competition and the former regime's members, who together have ten times less votes than President Aleksandar Vukic, and individually 30 times less votes and voters. That's why they run away from choices and reality. In voting day, we SNS MPs will support these draft laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61609	The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61610	Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the economic laws we are discussing respecting international standards, strengthening the transparency of state aid, enabling more effective control and removing the misunderstandings that so far existed and showing where Serbia wants to go. Serbia has an economic interest in growing and developing. So today we're talking about a surplus of 46.6 billion dinars, an increase in profit of 8-15%, an unemployment rate of 10.3%. All this says that this government is doing its best to improve the quality and life of citizens. Serbia has managed to build and change, in the past few years, to do what many before us couldn't, because they were gathered together with personal interests and personal wealth. And that is why we should be proud of our construction of highways, bridges, clinical centres, because thanks to our President Aleksandr Vukic, Serbia has managed to build, change itself, become a modern and strong state, successful and economically stable. We rely on such strong Serbia from KIM space. We are fighting for unity and harmony, although we are exposed to pressures not only by Albanians, but also by those who are inclined to them. It's forbidden for our officers to enter the KIM territory. I cannot ban and abolish the financial aid that the Serbian government daily makes towards citizens in the area. Life in KIM would be unimaginable and unsustainable if we didn't have every possible, including financial assistance from the government and our President, Alexander Vukic. And we, October 6th, go to the elections and vote for the Serbian List, show unity and harmony and the desire to survive and stay in our premises and hearths. By going to the polls and voting for the Serbian list, we are voting for a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61611	Thank you, colleague Compirovic. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61612	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, honourable MPs, we have before us a bill on state aid control, which should make state aid more transparent, to strengthen the efficiency of control, and that all the ambiguities that have so far been completely removed. Once we adopt this law, we will meet one of the criteria for opening the negotiating chapter 8, which concerns competition policy, which is a condition for obtaining a positive assessment in the European Commission's annual report. In addition, we create conditions for the State Aid Control Commission to become operationally independent. The bill clearly sets out situations that do not constitute state aid and the number of instruments to grant state aid, as well as the introduction of a State Aid Register. The State Aid Control Commission will acquire legal personality status, have its own budget and be responsible for its work to the National Assembly. It will carry out analyses of the state aid granted and will form annual reports on the aid granted. The commission will be entitled to assist, if it does not comply with their order, it will be able to prohibit the granting of state aid if it is considered to be incompatible, but it will also be able to order the refund of the funds already allocated, and a clear obsolescence of the recovery of state aid is prescribed and only after a period of 10 years has elapsed, starting from the day of the granting of state aid. I think the bill on state aid control is acceptable and I suggest we adopt it. We also have proposals for the Accounting and Audit Law, which have a common objective, which is to raise the quality of financial reporting in the Republic of Serbia, as one of the preconditions for creating a better business environment in the country and to encourage development in domestic economies, as well as for attracting potential foreign investment. Legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs providing accounting services, will be obliged to comply with the provisions of the law within three years of the date of entry into force of this Accounting Act. All will be obliged, starting on 1 January 2022, to issue invoices as accounting documents exclusively in electronic form. It will simplify procedures and issue invoices and shorten the time needed to carry out these jobs, and will provide faster VAT returns. When drawing up regular annual financial reports, different categories of legal entities will be able to apply international standards of financial reporting, which will affect further reduction of legal persons' costs in relation to financial reporting and easier business, and their financial reports will be more transparent and reliable. It is significant that amendments to the Accounting Act will also accept the recommendations of MANIVAL, in the sense of banning criminally convicted legal and natural persons and their associated persons to be founders and owners of legal entities and entrepreneurs engaged in the provision of accounting services. MANIVAL is a committee of the Council of Europe which brings together experts who assess Member States' compliance with all relevant international standards for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. I also believe that this bill of law, the bill of accounting, is acceptable and I suggest we adopt it. One of the most important changes in the draft audit law is that, within the framework of one institution, the Securities Commission, two competences, first, quality control over the work of the audit profession and second, public oversight of the conduct of the audit, are united. So far, quality control of the work of the auditors has taken place in three institutions - the chamber of authorised auditors, the Committee on Public Control of Audition and the Ministry of Finance. From now on, the process from the start of quality control of the auditor's work to the final result will be shorter than it has been so far. Such unification is in line with the best practice and requirements of the EU regulation. I also believe that this bill, the draft law on revision, is acceptable, and I also suggest that we adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61613	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61614	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I welcome the good news and the results you presented to us. We have an opportunity to discuss the positive rebalancing, the funds that will be allocated, as you said, by priorities of 46.6 billion dinars, how much the surplus actually amounts to in the first eight months of 2019. We have the opportunity to discuss the rate of economic growth of 4.4%, the billions of euros in foreign direct investment, in the end, the overall progress of our economy. The most important thing right now is to keep our fiscal results and continue on the path of growth and development. In that sense, I believe that the Serbian government will continue to take rational measures and with a responsible budget available to keep public finances safe and stable. And the proposals we're discussing today are going to improve the economic environment. As we could see, the budget, for example. The Ministry of Business for 2019 amounted to 35.3 billion dinars. With the rebalancing, this budget will be lower by about 3.5 billion dinars. Savings have also been made, and the amount will be returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The savings were made under investment subsidies of particular importance for the housing of infrastructure projects. So it's about the reserved funds under the incentive contracts. Since investors for some reason have not withdrawn the funds of incentives that have been identified, they will be transferred for next year. Otherwise, without it, the implementation of the economy ministry's budget is higher than 70%, and in that sum discretionary expenditures are less than 15%. And this is exactly the kind of information that shows us a domestic relationship within the Ministry. You yourself said in a principle debate, the British newspaper Financial Times confirmed that Serbia is the leader when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment. In 2018, Serbia attracted almost 12 times more investment compared to countries of similar size and made a great inflow. This is proof that the Serbian government has led a responsible policy. It is precisely this recognition of the Financial Times that is another engine and incentive for the government to remain on the reform course in efforts to keep Serbia still highly positioned in the area of investment. These results of the government, of course, have a positive impact on economic growth, but also on the better international position of our country and, ultimately, on political stability. As for this year, only in the first five months, direct foreign investment of 17% was made compared to a certain period in 2018. When we talk about the relationship between domestic and foreign investors, their position is legally even. Domestic investors are still not strong enough to mate with foreign ones in everything. For example, in 2018, of the 23 signed contracts, 12 were signed with domestic companies. Our companies have withdrawn 80m euros. When we compare the situation to 23 domestic companies using support, 2,000 people are employed, and so many people only work in one of Leonie's companies. So it's good to give support to domestics, but it's good to give support to foreign companies. The result is better economic growth, new jobs, better living standards for citizens and a record low unemployment rate of 10.3%. In this regard, because of the government's apparent efforts to make Serbia progress in all fields, SNS MPs will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61615	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61616	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's set of laws shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not satisfied the results achieved in the area of finance, but that it is setting up new high scales to be achieved. It is precisely this set of laws that speak of state aid and the introduction of professionalisation in the field of accounting and audit that we today have the opportunity to see what these are objectives Serbia needs to achieve and on this path essentially to become a shoulder-to-shoulder developed economy, as well as some countries that are EU members. It is commendable, no matter what many in society want to minimize these results. I think it is important that we always set ourselves new goals, because it is one process and simply the citizens of Serbia must get used to these processes. Today, these bill proposals, such as state aid control, such as the new Accounting and Audit Act, do not know if you have noticed fellow MPs, but gives greater weight to the supervisory role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First, when it comes to state aid, the 2009 law is an integral part of the Ministry of Finance's work. As such, it simply had to work in the frameworks that were possible, especially at the time of 2012, when you had a problem with the budget, when you had to simply touch the companies in restructuring, those where privatisation was not completed, where you had a large number of employees, whose monthly salaries were 10,000 dinars and such companies that had not yet received new owners, such as Smederjevska Jelizara at the time, such as Bor, where you had a large number of people who achieved certain labour rights, the state had to touch. It is something that the EU has recognised in its negotiations with Serbia as state aid which, when you become a full member of the EU, you simply do not have the right to work, because you are destroying the principle of competition on the market and thus learning, not only the Serbian economy, but all the countries of the Western Balkans, or all the countries that claim to be EU members. We don't normally do it for the EU, we do it to boost the competitiveness of the economy, which we have actually shown since 2012 until today that only by this competition can you simply... By accelerating the investment environment that we have actually passed new laws and implemented fiscal consolidation today, we have a large number of open factories. Because investors recognized that this is a market where they can compete, and to the satisfaction of consumers, where the prices of finished products should actually fall, and consumers, or Serbian citizens, have benefits of all this. The idea of the EU is to bring the Competition Protection Commission together with a certain part of the staff that would go a certain way with the choice, which concerns part of state aid. However, in negotiations with the EU in Chapter 8, the Republic of Serbia has also made concrete proposals that are now acceptable, and that is, when the Competition Protection Commission is in charge of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as one of its supervisory roles and independent of the executive authority... The proposal of the Ministry of Finance through this law is that the newly-formed Commission on State Aid Control, which would be in charge of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to have its own advice, its President, in order to make the choice in a transparent manner with the assistance of the competitions we are already conducting, as regards, for example, the Commission's protection of competition. Those instruments that are important, when it comes to state aid control in general, are now defined by this law, acceptable to the EU and most acceptable to the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because we simply want this control to give many things and many processes, economic processes in the Republic of Serbia out of the budget, or finance through these so-called so-called processes. Public investment, and it's defined somewhere as state aid. The large controls are achieved by forming a Commission that will be in charge of the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The high principle of transparency is established in this way. Secondly, the register that is being established is of great importance to all citizens of Serbia, because in a completely unique way we can see what state aid is, in what extent and how it is done with certain users with its name and last name. After all, we are essentially opening up this area in a completely new way, one way that we accept European directives, and on the other hand we are promoting our economy. When we talk about the Accounting Act, I'd say it's very important that we introduce professionalization into this area. What we noticed in public, when we started talking about this law and these solutions, as you suggested for that licensing, somewhere surveys that were done through the media, where newspapers were trying to question citizens what they thought about it. Two weeks ago, when a RTS poll was conducted, those percentages were well above 60%, to come to the conclusion that Serbia's citizens now simply recognise this as a need in the future in this area, where support is over 70%, even now the last one that took place at 75%. Citizens recognize that this area has to be arranged in this way, that members of an international organisation that respects high standards in this area should train our people who in this profession want to be really serious about this business, and that is why every natural person who achieves the possibility, that is, to pass a certain test and gain the right to be an accounting officer, has the opportunity to work independently in the legal person in which he is. This means that you, as someone with such knowledge, have the right to change the agency in which you will work, which is of great importance, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, because so far, companies have mainly asked to place these certificates, and then employees cannot change or have to regain knowledge when it was possible when there was this type of certification. It is important to say for the Accounting Act that these two members of the international organisation are authorised when it comes to obtaining a license, or work, to oversee for the purposes of the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, and what is important is that the Register will have an Agency for Business Registers which otherwise has a large part of the register, when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore it will be much easier for users to access information as it works, in which way and whether it works in a certain and professional way. When it comes to the Revision Act, we've had opportunities here at the National Assembly to have meetings with the DRI. It is not the subject of this law, because the DRI Act defines the area of work of the DRI. Otherwise, in our conclusions of the Finance Committee, we have made it very important that there is an internal audit, and that is where we all agreed as MPs regardless of opposition or position. Why? Because internal auditors are very much helping management to make proper decisions in accordance with the law, according to standards, and when external audit comes, or, or DRI, then it's all much easier because you simply know that you are in the legal frameworks as an authorised person representing a particular legal person and a legal entity and therefore there is a much easier job. What is important to say is that this is one of the procedures that everyone is learning today and whether we are talking about companies with private or state capital, institutions that are in the part of public finances, it is simply very important that auditors are also certified, that they have a work permit, that the Securities Commission, which is also in the power of the Assembly, controls public finances. So, all of these laws show that this vote strengthens the supervisory function of Parliament at all. Therefore, I think it is of great importance that these laws be passed, that they should be supported and that surely some of the European Commission's reports will recognise this step that both the Serbian government and parliament have made to adopt such laws. What I can say is that even when Mr. Vucic was prime minister, the first chapter opened in the negotiations with the EU was Chapter 32, which normally refers to control and that vision, in fact, shows that finance was in focus when the state of Serbia carried out economic reforms, and now that we simply have results. This means that we set high goals for ourselves when it comes to economics. I thank you for the laws proposed this way, because many may not have understood in public when these laws came simply to the congregation’s agenda. That is why we and as a Committee have held a session outside the seat completely open to the public, where we have discussed proposals for the draft and the Accounting Act and the Audit Act. Each of us has made some personal opinions and observations, but you have had an understanding of all of this and made a really good proposal that has shown itself, I think it is also acceptable for the citizens of Serbia. In voting day, of course, we will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61617	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61618	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, as our chairman of the Finance Committee said, very good drafts of the law today on the agenda and we as members of the Finance Committee have already met, but simply because of citizens and those concerning this law are a little more extensive than we are. I will rely more on accounting law, given that it contributes to transparency and the public of business records. This law harmonizes Serbian accounting with natural European practice and international standards. We all know accounting has changed over time. As technology progressed, accounting first accepted these new technological research and solutions. The electronic formula is certainly an accounting step and payment by modern technological step and solutions. We'll make Serbian accounting simpler and more professional. We're going to have dozens of advantages, and we expect very much to affect micro-enterprises. Thus, we cannot expect the progress of micro-enterprises without following global solutions in the field of accounting. It is of paramount importance and unification by submitting financial and statistical reports. Practically, instead of two reports, we're now going to have one final consolidated account. I will simply commend the Law on Audit and, of course, the State Control Act. As I said, they are of great importance to the economy, where, in fact, this new bill also increases the supervisory function of parliament, as well as the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61619	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here's my colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61620	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 6 is to bring our legislation in line with EU rules in the field of corporate reporting, and that is precisely one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, given that the existing law is only partially in line with EU regulations. The adoption of this law will primarily raise the quality of financial reporting in Serbia, and this law is important because it will regulate the provision of accounting services. The Chamber of Authorised Auditors will issue work permits to legal persons and entrepreneurs, while the register will be run by the Agency for Business Registers. The condition is to obtain a work permit and at least one person fulfils the condition that he has professional knowledge from the field of accounting and audit acquired by a member of the International Federation of Accountants. The paper in this law is that legal entities, i.e. invoice entrepreneurs, will issue invoices exclusively in electronic form. So, first of all, we're going to have one simplified procedure, no more stamps, no more signatures, no more time savings like that in all developed countries, and that is why we can rightly say that this law, which we need to adopt, will allow Serbia to be one more modern country. This law allows small legal entities to apply international standards of financial reporting to draw up financial reports. So far, that's not possible. Under the current law, only medium-sized enterprises could apply international standards of financial reporting. The law also prohibits convicted legal persons and persons associated with them from being founders, owners of legal entities and entrepreneurs engaged in the provision of accounting services. What's ultimately important is that there's enough space left. It is a three-year space for legal entities and entrepreneurs now operating in Serbia to comply with their business with this law, so that the introduction of an electronic invoice awaits us, i.e. the application of an electronic invoice from 1 January 2022, and these are somewhere in the most significant newspapers. In any case, the SNS parliamentary group will support all draft laws on the agenda today because they will certainly contribute to Serbia being a more modern country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61621	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61622	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, I will refer to the proposal for a law on state aid control. This law is in line with the EU's legal assets, and it practically allows for clearer control of the allocation of public funds through a reduction of public revenues, i.e. by an increase in public expenditure, which can be characterised as state aid. Greater transparency, more adequate planning of the allocation of funds, but also clearly prescribed criteria by which the right to grant state aid is exercised. The establishment of adequate supervision of these activities is envisaged, which means that an independent body, i.e. the State Aid Control Commission, will be formed, which will play a role in monitoring these activities, and the information base for keeping records of the State aid granted will also be developed. State aid can be granted to improve the economic development of the region in the territory of the Republic of Serbia with an extremely low standard of living or with a high unemployment rate, then to remove some serious disturbance in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, in these cases the state can intervene, then when a specific project is implemented of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, then to improve the development of an economic area to the extent that competition on the market is not affected. The law does not apply to incentives in agriculture, which means it will not control the allocation of state incentives in agriculture until the date of Serbia's accession to the EU. As State aid instruments, subsidies and many other fiscal reliefs are recognised, when the beneficiary is forgiven for part or the entire amount of profit tax, or other taxes, then State guarantees, which may or may not be used, State deductions in favour of the economic operator owned or partly owned by the State, or the write-off of the debt. This includes selling and providing for the use of assets in public property at a price lower than the market price but also without compensation. State aid providers can be the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, for example, certain ministries, and any legal person available to public funds such as the Development Fund. Development is a key word here because that is exactly what this government's better work will be based on, as it has been based so far, and the greatest success will be when we achieve even development, on the territory of the entire country, to make each part of Serbia feel and take another step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61623	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61624	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, here we are at the end of today's session on the set of economic laws, and we can really say that in this debate we have heard all the possible reasons, but also the arguments that support why we should adopt the proposed laws. Some also had some concrete objections, some concrete proposals and initiatives. Some of it was justified, slightly less, but that is what is normal in parliamentary life and parliamentary practice. The only one we've heard nothing from is those messengers, the part of the opposition that's in the so-called. The boycott, which neither today nor yesterday when we discussed budget rebalancing, did not find it appropriate to attend a session of the National Assembly and thus sent a message to Serbian citizens that they were absolutely not interested in any topic of importance for Serbian citizens. But what they might say, as they might, possibly, if we have all those results on the state of public finances, on economic growth and the overall economic picture of Serbia. What could they say if we knew unemployment was 10.3% at this point, and in their time it was more than 25%? What could they say if we knew that the rate of economic growth for the first half of this year is 4.4%? What could they object to if we knew that inflation was lower than ever, and at the time of their government it was two digits, all the time their government, for every year? What could they object to, if we knew that public debt was reduced to about 50% of GDP, and in their time it was above 70%? What do they say about the inflow of foreign direct investment? What do they say about a record tax charge? And everything else they didn't want, could or could do, and this government will, can and can do. What is important is to point out these are good news for Serbian citizens, as we heard, an increase in public sector wages from 8% to 15%, on average 9.6% of November 1st this year, then a one-time aid to pensioners of 5,000 dinars from 1 December of this year, and an announced pension increase of 1 January next year, which will be more than 5%. Then the increase, i.e. raising minimum earnings from 27,000 to over 30,000 dinars. Is that enough? Of course not. Are we satisfied? Of course we're not completely, but that's almost twice as much as it was during their rule in Serbia. Then aid to citizens in charge of Swiss francs, but also to continue investment in capital investments, highways, traffic, travel, railway infrastructure, bridges, schools, hospitals, kindergartens and everything else. All this is good news for the citizens of Serbia, but what is most important is all of this from real grounds. So it's all from savings and income. No borrowing, no expensive loans, no too much interest. And that's the fundamental and key difference between us and them. Their policy was to go elections to increase pensions. There's no money in the budget. Who's gonna get it back? We don't care. Not us. This was how they experienced the exercise of authority. Hundreds of thousands of citizens lost their jobs during their government. Hundreds of companies destroyed, hundreds of factories closed. Thanks primarily to Alexander Vukic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who leads a responsible and rational economic policy, we are now in a position to practically eliminate all the consequences of the harmful policy that was led by 2012, which aims to further strengthen Serbia's economic picture and raise Serbia's standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61625	I thank my colleague Markovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary group or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first of all admit that I expected a much more serious debate on three of these new laws, and should have, if you want a quality parliamentary debate, then either we should have discussed each law in particular or at least extend the time for this united debate for these three laws. However, listening to these discussions where everything and everything were spoken, and practically least on the law, it is no wonder that Mr. Minister is always looking at his mobile phone. He, man, if he had anything to answer to, if you'd said anything about laws, he'd probably get involved in a discussion, this is how you made it absolutely impossible for him. In the golden age of Serbian democracy, when the SRS was in power, the debates were much more quality, and at that time practically every member or amendment was broken by spears, and then the laws were incomparable, incomparably more quality. I'm going to start with this law that today was the least spoken of, it's this State Aid Control Act. I don't think he should have been in there somehow, even though he shouldn't have been. We have heard from representatives of the ruling coalition that this law will increase the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and, they say, the ability to control the Ministry of Finance. That's absolutely not true. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia first of all what this is really about, it is that one area controlled by the ministry, so the work done by the Ministry is now being removed and formed, as you like to say a special independent body that will do so in the future or as someone said, the control body. That is exactly my first offense to this law. You are the body you form, called the State Aid Control Commission, but it's essentially another agency. It's just about the difference in what you're going to call that body. It's about a little better marketing. Yellows also mass-made agencies in their time, and they called them that, and you have a little better pi-ar, so you didn't want to use that name that doesn't suit the ears of Serbian citizens, but you said -- we'll call it a commission. You could have called in any way, but it's the same. You're moving jurisdiction, or you're giving up some jurisdiction, and I'm afraid you're going to be complaining very quickly about what you've done, folding your shoulders when we're criticizing you at one of the next sessions and saying -- but we don't have jurisdiction, you know, that's what some independent body that we can't influence, which is also not true, because as always, the government will have a crucial impact on who will be president and who will be members of this committee's advice that you're forming. Your claim that the National Assembly will have some broad powers will simply not. The election and the public competition will be conducted by the competent financial committee and it will be hidden from the public's eyes, because the board's sessions, of course, are not broadcast on television, there is no such possibility. And, like so far, by system -- whoever has the majority can vote whatever comes to mind, as you've chosen others before, so you will now choose both the president and the members of this committee. No one believes in public competitions in Serbia anymore. And you know that the Assembly has practically become and turned into a flow boiler, that they pass any solutions and that the representatives of the opposition, except for a few words of criticism at committee meetings that will not be heard, have no other possibility of influence. However, I will remind you that there have already been some very strange characters in your competitions, so Rodoljub Sabic, as a proposal from the SNS, passed his time. Then after a brief period of time, you moaned and fired fire at him from all possible weapons. So Sasa Jankovic passed, and you also boast him as an ideal candidate, so a few months later you say he's a traitor, that he's a foreign mercenary, etc. It passed there and the crazy Radule, and he was your minister, so Dusan Vujovic passed, and many others whom you praised, and shortly thereafter spoke much worse of them than anyone from the opposition had ever spoken of them. The start of the application of this law will be on 1 January 2020, except for, as you say, certain provisions starting on the date of entry into force, and sublaws are passed within a year and will bring only this advice. I think that deadline should have been shorter and it should have been limited to six months. I'm afraid you'll get back into the situation that the deadlines you're setting now, even though they're quite long, will be breached and who knows which time we'll have to meet here and extend those deadlines that you've prescribed. The reason for the adoption of the law, in the beginning you say a little bit in the explanation that you want some better control, I suppose, by acknowledging that within the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you were unable to organise this quality of control, but then you actually reveal the essence and say that this is what the EU requires and that they have practically conditioned that if you want to open it, I think it is Chapter 9, that you must then form another independent regulatory body and there, in addition, you state that it was the requirement of certain NGOs, such as "Transparency of Serbia" and some others, which indeed in the serious state could not and should not be a serious argument. Unfortunately, in Serbia everything is done in a dictatorship and in line with the EU dictatorship. You are trying in every way possible to get close, but the problem remains that they do not want you and other, even greater problems, which they are openly asking you to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence in order to eventually become a member of the EU in 2225. The problem is that they're asking us to give up KIM, the problem is that we have to change the laws, and that membership is getting further and further as the year goes by. Here, already, for God's sake, it's been 20 years. You prescribe at the beginning what is the Commission's jurisdiction, that they will control all kinds of state aid. But I'm curious, now specifically to have Mr. Minister answer one question, what will it be, Mr. Sinisha Mali, with secret contracts? You know, and that's what Serbian citizens know, there are certain secret contracts in Serbia. That's the deal with the Fiat. Under the contract, they have achieved certain benefits and citizens of Serbia, despite many attempts, have failed to find out what is in the contract. Will this commission have access to such contracts? The secret is, as far as I know, a contract with Etihad on the formation of "Er Serbia", a secret agreement on the entry of the Belgrade airport to the French company "Vinci" or "Vinci", however you wish to say it. So how will the state control what it gives them, and how will they force them to, and how do they have to publish public reports, to get those reports? As for the one where you define which instruments are state aid, I don't think there's any instrument for State aid in postponing taxes, and you'll admit it's also state aid. There are companies in Serbia that have been given the opportunity from the Administration of Revenue, although they have large revenues, to postpone their payment by three, four or five years. If you give someone that opportunity, it's like you gave them credit and it's a convenience and it's something that the state should also control. In accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, you are required to inform us in the proposal and how much the implementation of this law will cost the citizens of Serbia. You didn't do it, and that's why this law shouldn't even be in the congregation procedure. Where the assessment of the financial resources needed to implement the law stands -- adequate funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget will be provided for the application of the law. Is that an estimate, an appropriate means? Well, then you can say in any law - the right means. The question is who would be appropriate, but you were obliged to name some amount, one dinar, one million dinars, one billion dinars. It might be wrong, but you were obliged to specify some amount, so we would criticise you here and say, maybe it's worth it, maybe it's not worth it, it needs less or it needs more. The headquarters of this commission, and essential agencies, will be in Belgrade. I ask you -- why in Belgrade, why not in another Serbian town, where people leave, where there is no work? You're always talking about decentralisation, about deconcentration of power. Couldn't it have been in Negotin or in the King or in Pirot or in Prijepolje with Mr Despotovic, in any other city in Serbia could have been the headquarters of that agency, but you're piled up again, not only are you making unnecessary new bodies, but you're hoarding it all up again in Belgrade. As far as organ selection is concerned. The authorities are the chairman of this committee and members of the council. You're saying that for a president and a member of the council, one person can be elected at most twice. Why two times tops? What is the usual formulation in other laws is – twice consecutive. If one can be elected twice for the President of the Republic, then one term will be passed, and he will be elected twice, and one term will be passed, and he will be elected twice, and then why can't someone be elected more than twice, and for the president or member of this Commission for State Aid Control? There's absolutely no reason. The reason for the resolution of the president and member of the Council, you say – if he becomes a member of the political party. Now, I would ask you, Mr. Mali, to explain to us - what's embarrassing about being a member of the political side? Membership in political parties is the constitutional right of all citizens of Serbia. There is even a ban on discrimination on various grounds, including political definition. What you're saying is that membership in a political party is a reason to resolve, I think no one who understands democracy can understand and cannot agree to that. How will you determine if a member of a particular political party? What is the mechanism at the disposal of the Government or the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to establish such a thing and what does membership even mean? Here, Ana Brnabic is not a member of the SNS, but she is someone who leads the government, who is an exponent of SNS policy and, behold, she announces, as if it interests someone, that she will allegedly join the SNS. Is it going to be something that's going to be her fault, that's going to keep her from being in another position? So someone can be in office as Prime Minister as a member of the political party and can't be here at the head of the State Aid Control Commission. It doesn't make any sense, and it would be much better if you once stood behind your staff, the SRS had never been ashamed of its personnel. When we suggest someone, we say – our member, he's quality, he's educated, we're professional and we're behind him and we know who's doing his job. You've been talking, here, for years now, you're going to be constantly replacing the unprofessional directors, the unprofessional presidents of the municipalities, half of your parliamentary list you're going to change. Well, come on, come out and let's finally hear who you're ashamed of. In the discharge of a member of the Council, he says – it can be launched by the President of the Commission, a secretary or body, a competent authority to prevent corruption. My question, Mr. Mali, is - why can't a member of the Council initiate this discharge procedure and why can't a MP? If you are already talking about wanting to extend your jurisdiction to the National Assembly, then every MP, as we have the opportunity to propose legislation, must be given the opportunity to propose a resolution of a member of the Council or of a president. It's something that would be completely normal. The second question - on what basis have you given the secretary of the Commission who is not the Commission authority the opportunity to propose that he be the member of the Council or the President of the Commission? That's completely absurd. You know, the president and members of the Council choose the National Assembly and they have certain legitimacy. On the other hand, the secretary is someone elected by the Council, appointed, resolved, and now you give that person more rights than you give to the National Assembly than to the MPs. I repeat, the secretary is not the Commission's authority to verify this state aid. I think it is further degradation of the National Assembly, and therefore the citizens of Serbia who chose these MPs. Then the title above article 21 is - the equal position of the secretary. With whom it is an equal secretary cannot be known, nor can it be, with members of the Council, it cannot be with the President. These are the people chosen by the National Assembly. Next thing you know, this is going to burden the budget, and these people are going to have huge salaries. You've determined that the president's salary will be leveled by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. That's not good for two reasons. First of all, in order to become President of the Supreme Cassation Court, it must meet incomparably more complex conditions than one who may be elected President of the Commission, and you have appointed members of the Council to have salaries in the height of the Supreme Court's salary, which is also, in my opinion, totally unwarranted. Next, you gave this law the possibility to the President of the Commission that any official within the Commission, by his decision, would increase the value of the coefficient by two times the value of the coefficient laid down by the law to each employee, they would be subject to the provisions of the Law on salaries for employees of the state administration, etc. So there's no way to control it. If you are going to apply the law to them, then the law must be applied consistently. You will thus allow the President of the Commission to favour certain employees and there will be something, as is happening in RTS, to share a certain bonus and that, although they are paid, fat from the pockets of Serbian citizens, that there is no idea how much public service there is, that public service directors have been refusing to tell Serbian citizens for years and then, I guess, we will have such a similar situation here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61627	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure – the dignity of the National Assembly, which is why my esteemed colleague Nemanja Sarovic said that the session of the Committee on Finance and other congregation working bodies is not public, but that they are secrets. Just because there's no television transmission, you can imagine how many channels we'd have if every session of the board were transmitted and I had access to the public. However, as far as our parliament is public in the work, it is saying that the second in the region is public work. So, various international organisations dealing with the work of parliaments, so any session of the board can be monitored online, there are also videos, and every citizen can be familiar with that. The election of members of the commission, since an esteemed colleague has not participated, say, in the election of members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, is a public competition. Everyone can apply to meet the conditions, there's even a written part of the text, and then it's only then that it comes to the discretionary right of the board members who are going to give whom their trust, and not to talk about that they're not elected at the board's session, but they're elected here on the tide when there's a television broadcast. Furthermore, I ask that MPs also adhere to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Dear counterpart Sarovic, who is otherwise a lawyer, said the following -- that the president of the Republic of Serbia can be elected twice in a row. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says in Article 116(3). - no one can be elected president of the Republic of Serbia more than twice. So, twice, it doesn't matter if it's consecutive, whether it's with breaks or in any other way. Third thing, please let the precise MPs plead when they read the provisions of the law. The title above article 21 does not say that the secretary of the commission has an equal position, but says so – the working legal position of the secretary. That's why I said yesterday the laws should be read.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61629	Comrade Arsic, you've indicated a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, right? (The Faith of Radeta: He said nothing. No, no, 107th said. I have to answer you. As for the precise expression of the MPs of the people, I cannot participate, but my manners are not to interrupt the speaker during the presentation. As far as transparency is concerned, the public of Parliament's work here fully agrees with you, among other things, with one of the research, as far as I know, the radio and the UNDP. I'm left in the end just to ask if you'd like the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Comrade Sarovic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You can't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Just a moment, please. My colleague Rističević, do you want to be authorized? Yeah. Then we'll have to give the word to the minister first. Minister Sinisha Mali said.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61630	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we've heard a lot of arbitrary and incorrect information, so it's my duty and duty to point out what's really true. I'm glad the MP pointed to article 21 before me. So if only someone had read the law they're talking about carefully, he would have seen that it wasn't the equal position of the secretary, it was the working position of the secretary. But once again, that's enough talking about how much and how deep someone's gotten into this. I think if you spent more time here, and all day you were gone, we had a debate on the issues of all the laws, then maybe you'd answer some of your questions already, or you'd read some of the law more carefully. The first thing you were talking about, you said the Ministry was doing the job, and now you're setting up the Commission. I don't know how long you've been an MP in this assembly, but the Commission has been there since 2010. So, we don't set up any new commission, this commission currently works, the Commission exists. It does not exist in the Ministry of Finance, but is appointed by the government, and the Ministry of Finance provides the professional services necessary for the Commission's work. Of course, if you'd read the law, or if you'd followed how this process was going at all, you'd probably know that, but I guess you might not have just understood. So this law only changes the organisational structure and way of functioning of the Commission for State Aid Control, which I say already exists since 2010. Secondly, the Commission is selected by public competition under the new law and by the members of the Commission. I don't know how it was in your golden time, and we're for public competitions and for choosing the best staff that can lead these independent institutions. I will remind you, there is also a competition commission, as an independent institution and a anti-corruption commission, i.e. the DRI, etc. They are all independent institutions where members are elected in the same way and under the control of the parliaments of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's the best, most transparent way for Serbian citizens as well. Next, you listed the degree of confidentiality that you know is regulated in parallel practice. Also, you listed the question of the contract with "Etihad", "Belgrade on Water", etc., I will remind you again, since I see that you have not followed, both contracts and others are public, published on the Government of the Republic of Serbia's website, as early as 2014, when they were signed, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to hide. These contracts are on the site, they are public and all Serbian citizens can look at all the details of the contract. There are some contracts that are confidential and these contracts are related to parallel law, parallel practice, as they work in other countries and the world and Europe. Article 3 of the honourable MP speaks of instruments which are related to further State aid, and writes in paragraph 8, or indent 8, however you like, and other funds that are not covered by the first seven points of view. So you have that extension of the tax-free period that you said, but then again, I guess you didn't read this well, so you didn't even see it right. You're also asking what the impact analysis is. With no financial impact analysis, this law cannot be passed. It also has an analysis of the effects, it writes to you, it has exactly which page, 98.844 million dinars, the same as now, only the institution from this existing framework is transferred to another frame, and it also writes to you in an analysis of the effects of this law. Finally, I think it is a good thing that whoever runs an independent institution like this is not a member of any political party, or party, I think it is important for the independence of these bodies. I'm talking about the DRI here and the judges, and the Anti-Corruption Agency, about all these independent bodies. Finally, the fact that he is not a member of the political party, and whoever runs those organs, gives him the right to be independent. It may not have been so in your day, but as I understand it in your time these independent organs were not even there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61631	Thank you, Minister. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61632	Mr. Milicevic, a member of 107 was injured and the dignity of the National Assembly and you had to warn Mr. Malo that he was obliged to be decent and to address with respect to the MPs. He must understand where he came from, whatever each other MPs say, we are equal here and we are chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this is our house. He's a guest here, and like any other guest, he should behave politely. So someone can behave one way or another, if he's a MP, and the minister certainly can't. You, Mr. Mali, were quite underprivileged, here stands the financial resources and I will read -- for the implementation of this law adequate funds will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, accordingly, there must be an estimate of the financial amount. Secondly, I said this was a job that was already being done, and now you're building a new agency, with you calling it the Commission, and it's only doing a little better PR, and your political option, which has also proposed to you as a minister, has, in time, promised Serbian citizens before coming to power to cut off some hundred agencies, because they're bloodthirsty, because they're spending funds, and so on. You don't have, among other things, how many council members there are going to be here, and what some say, they're going to choose the assembly in the tide, so it's going to be public... No, the assembly is just going to vote in the plenary, but there won't be a debate here, there won't be a discussion here. The discussion is held at meetings of the Financial Committee. To say that it is equally public what is done at regular sessions of the National Assembly and what is done at the session of a committee, it is pointless and it speaks more of those who claim it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61633	Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, you have indicated that I have injured a specific article 107. You know, how, it's very hard for me to determine who's being maligned and who's not. I only took this as a response from the minister to the questions you asked during your presentation. That's why I thought you wanted a replica. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61634	Article 107(2) in relation to Article 116 obliges the Minister to respect the Rules of Procedure, i.e. chairing you, and in this case it has not been the case before. We understand that the minister is uncomfortable that both yesterday and today, the MPs are ignoring him, because at this point, just before I counted 28 members of the government, the minister here all day talking about the bill's proposals and certainly it offends him, but that's not why he can ask opposition MPs where they are, whether they've been sitting all day, all night, etc. It just doesn't have the right. Mr. Minister said several times, speaking to Nemanja Sarovic, in your time it wasn't this, in your time it wasn't that. You know, it was a time when it wasn't like your time now that the directors of public enterprises were six years in V.D. condition. Do you know that you have 90% of the directors of public enterprises in V.D.? Otherwise, how was the situation at our time as you say? Best to ask the Radical Minister for Informing Alexander Vukic at the time, he was our time a radical minister, such as you from 2000 to, I don't know, 2004 at all significant functions under privatisation, as a member of the Democratic Party. So you can eventually ask around about all the details that you're interested in. I repeat, it is inappropriate for us, Minister, to say that it is the lowest salary and pension, that it must be 37,000. It would be inappropriate to say – you don't know, you didn't read, you don't know how to read, that the lowest consumer basket is 37,000. We're just giving it to you as a fact, not an insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61635	Thank you, colleague Radeta. You indicated an infringement of Article 107(2) in relation to Article 116. Article 107(2) - At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. I did not notice that the minister did so during his presentation, but that he was answering the questions raised during the discussion of the authorised representative. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) No, no, no, Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61636	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I don't mind answering questions, as far as I'm concerned, we can sit here as long as it takes, because I know we're defending good laws and doing a good thing. What was my point is that we need to study the laws well, read the laws, spend a little time on it, because here's the second time we're hearing the same question about how much it costs. The impact analyses on the 51st page are already on the Serbian Parliament's website. So if you ask those questions, and I give you the answer, then ask me the same question again, no problem, I'll give you the answer again. So, on the Parliament site, there is an answer to your question, in an analysis of the proposed law, there is an answer to your question of how necessary it is to allocate financial resources for the implementation of this law. On the other hand, I can spend a lot of time right now, there's no problem, making a difference between "work-legal" and "equal", because it's probably whether ignorance, whether incomprehension between, I'm talking about Article 21, I apologize, who doesn't follow, the State Aid Control Act, working-law or equal, that's a big question. I think reading that article's title carefully gives an answer to the question. Thank you so much for your trip.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61637	Comrade Sarovic, would you like a replica of the minister's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61638	The Minister either won't or won't be able to understand. So you mentioned, Mr. Minister, "Belgrade on Water", I didn't mention it. I was talking about "Fiat", I was talking about "Vinci", "Vinchi" and JAT. If the contract is published for Etihad, let's see what's going on with this why you didn't answer about these other contracts I was talking about. The second thing, financial resources, page 44, for the implementation of this law will be provided with adequate funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Well, of course it's going to be out of the budget, but what does that mean? So it's an estimate of financial resources and it had to stand there. You didn't even answer why the number of members of the Council wasn't prescribed. You haven't even answered what's embarrassing about being a member of a particular political party, and if you're already talking about who's read the law who hasn't, I've read it, which is not the case for 90% of the representatives of this ruling coalition. You could listen to them and hear about Pupino and about engineers and about unemployment and about everything else alive, is the only thing you couldn't hear about is just about these laws. It's a story that repeats itself every day. So every day we listen to things, and all we don't hear about is laws. You would have to appreciate much more conversators who focus their discussions on the law and what it really is, the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61639	Thank you. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61640	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, as I said earlier, I don't mind saying it more times than anyone understands. So, after page 41, page 51 of page 51 clearly states what are the effects, the financial effects of implementing this law. So whoever wants to reads can. Secondly, we've heard there's no prescribed number of members of the Council. Let's do it again. Whoever reads the law, here I will read from word to word, Article 11. – The Commission bodies shall be a council, in the text of the Council, and the President of the Commission; first position. Second position - The Council shall take decisions and acts on matters referred to in the competence of the Commission, unless otherwise prescribed by this law, and shall be composed of the President of the Commission and four members. The President of the Commission plus four members equals five members of the Council, so, of course, I guess if that's not clear, five plus one and four plus one is equal to five. Finally, about the contract. So there are some contracts that have a confidentiality clause and that's so, unfortunately, with us and we wanted to see what it says and to publish that contract with the "Fiita," but unfortunately we couldn't, because we didn't get the consent of the other Contracting Party. Serious countries must respect agreements previously signed, even if they do not agree with it, and just for your information, the company in France is called "you are". It's not Vinci either, Vinci is what you have in Vinci, and I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61641	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic. You have five minutes and 48 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61642	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I will use this remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group to briefly absorb everything that has already been exposed on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and to comment only on something that, dear Mr Minister, may need to be further affirmed, in order to give the Government of the Republic of Serbia additional incentives for the continuation of the reform process, on the one hand. On the other hand, to fix what is still to be fixed in order to certainly be better compared to the achievements achieved so far in terms of financial consolidation on the one hand, economic stabilisation, of course, economic and economic growth. It seems to me that instead of day-to-day political talks and populist statements from various opposition parties that are not in this House, we have one picture that must be completely crystal clear in front of citizens, which is that this part, this segment, regardless of what criticisms were and from whom they were addressed, do not have sufficient arguments and have enough grounds. Any criticism must be justified, it must have a factual basis, and at the same time as a lawyer, I can also say a material legal basis. These criticisms, respected ministers, which are of a day-to-day political nature, when it comes to your sector, have no basis, have no basis for any number of reasons. I also said yesterday that after painful cuts in 2014, after a difficult period passed by Serbia and Serbian citizens, we have one full stability. A financial discipline has been established, fiscal discipline has been established, a system has been established in which, when it comes to fiscal policy, Serbian citizens can be absolutely sure, as the budget is being filled in in a way that is not only regulated by law, but that gives an extremely good result in full effect. So far, unfortunately, it wasn't. When it comes to budgeting, I just have to draw attention to a few facts that, in any case, were not the subject of these discussions. One way to fill the budget is, since I am tied to this profession, and court fees, which are charged by courts as compensation for the actions taken in court proceedings by, of course, those involved in court proceedings, which are parties. Is this way of filling the budget much better than it's ever been? I must say with responsibility to the citizens of Serbia that it is. Now, the courts have, fortunately, no matter what we have the right to criticise them for ineffectiveness in the work, have incomes that can service the needs of the work of the courts, have the means to serve those operational tasks in courts that relate to various cases on the ground. After all, we have so far not had the opportunity to collect what was necessary into the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is a lack of huge revenues that the parties have not paid for years and years, and even to antiquity, which is why the simple budget of the Republic of Serbia has been at stake. Now, as much as we criticise public executioners, no matter how much we criticise the executive procedure, it is far more orderly, far more meaningful and therefore we must say that at last one system, one segment of exactly what means the stability of the budget is achieved as a whole. At the very end, I want to point out once again what our authorised representative of the SPS, our esteemed friend and colleague, Dejan Radenkovic, pointed out – we are on the right track, whether the EU's fate is positive or negative, whether the EU format remains the same or not. Our path must be as it was started, and that is that we continue to act precisely on investment renaissance, on bringing investors, on economic growth, on increasing profits, of course, accordingly, and reducing the unemployment rate, and that gives everything and how optimistic the sound of everything that I'm saying and I think it's going to be. Of course, these aren't praises that are unfounded. For what I pointed out, the facts and facts justify the positive result of your government. That's why, dear Minister, you have SPS support for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61643	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61644	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that Serbia is on a good path, and when you're on a good path, you get travellers fast. What I don't agree with is that this has been discussed more seriously. I believe, Mr. Martinovic, that this session dedicated to the budget, budget rebalancing and accompanying laws will certainly last seven working days. As someone who was in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1998, 1999, and 2000, someone who exhibited something there, I remember that we worked every year, yearly, in this more serious way for seven to ten days. We've had so many sessions, that's how many working days we've had all year. I remember the adoption of one budget, something rushed to lunch, so it lasted about three, four hours that day. It was this serious way, and I spent it by having my exposure covered by the speaker's voice, so when I answer the word, then the speaker appears parallelly and so that my tone would not be heard, the speaker spoke, said – respected viewers, you who later joined the program, said Mirko Marjanović. Sit tight, pale, first tuna. So, on that occasion, he said an important socialist thought and then parts of the stenogram were read what Mirko Marjanovic was saying and so covered the exhibition of a peasant. I was probably socially dangerous. And then the seriousness approached that kind of censorship. Those times are behind us. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that state aid is necessary, these are the times. Serbia has been much technologically lagging in the 1990s. Military and economic pressures have resulted not only in the loss of GDP, but have lagged behind technologically. It wasn't the technology, it wasn't the investment. We were forced because of military and economic pressures, which were inappropriate and unacceptable, we were forced to stockpile and in the 1990s not yet compensated because we who thought when Milosevic went away that the democratic world would understand us, that he would bring us back Kosovo, that he would make up for everything they had taken from us with their decisions and their sanctions, the poor uranium, etc. We thought they'd make it up to us. They did not make it up to us, thanks to, above all, the authorities that were between 2001 and 2012. That power wasn't without some results, but mostly spent money, they were expendable experts, but for work, it kind of didn't work out. The capital was sold, 400,000 people lost their jobs, no pay, no dignity, and so the funds were emptied. We all forget and forgive the Paris and London Club, which was supposed to relax the situation. However, they too quickly spent and spent. I think it's worth investing in business and agriculture. Without it, there will be no economic progress in Serbia. I will list a few facts that require state aid in the economy, especially in the processing industry and agriculture. Serbia is an old country, Serbia is empty. It is necessary to process agricultural products as close as possible to the place of production, as the issue of agriculture is no longer just a matter of agriculture, but also a question of demographics. Serbia is empty in favour of large cities, which do not lose the population, but do not have any growth. Serbia has become a gathering of small and large nursing homes. To reinvigorate the population, if Serbia is empty, that empty space will be inhabited by some other people. The white plague is the most effective ethnic cleansing, and the aggression of baby cradles, which we have already experienced in some of our territory, is the most successful aggression. If we empty our territories from our people, that territory will be inhabited by some other people. Serbia must not allow this, therefore, to lift up the processing industry compared to agriculture, as close as possible to the place of production. We lose a lot by not using our natural resources and plant potential. I was talking about livestock. Now I'm going to tell you about something called the production of renewable energy from biomass. Do you know that every year in Vojvodina, it burns, mostly, and sometimes it burns, four hundred thousand tons of biomass, four hundred thousand tons of biomass per million and a half acres, at least four hundred thousand tons of mass? Because we didn't invest in the production of biomass energy, because that energy is getting lost. Four hundred thousand tons of biomass is worth a million, or one million and a half hectares of two, that's from four hundred thousand to four million tons of biomass. Four million tons of biomass is worth a million tons of oil. A million tons of oil is worth 350 million. Every year, we sink or burn four million tons of biomass, which is worth a warm energy of a million tons of oil. That's a third of our oil needs. We lose so much because we didn't have that kind of state aid that we now need to find and that biomass we're burning, which we're about to convert energy, heat, electrical, and thus create new jobs, supplying our economy and processing with the energy produced in the fields. Maltene agriculture can process and donate both raw materials and electricity if it is smart and if it is state aid. We used to listen here mostly to how money should be spent, we'll mostly argue over the division, where money is spent and doesn't come back. What I appeal to is that the more we invest in the economy, the more we invest in agriculture, because that's how we make more money, the more the state needs state aid, because it's supposed to be a yeast that we're going to mix up that cake that needs to be bigger than it is now, and when we share it equally that the poor get as much as possible. I welcome the government's intention to allocate more money to nurses, mostly people with medium professional training. They deserve it. Our people deserve to be distributed more evenly, to take from the rich to give to the poor. The previous government did not fight poverty, it produced it. They fought the poor, not the poor. They created it, they created armies of people who were unemployed, who had empty pockets and empty stomachs wandering through cities, mostly suburban poor settlements, deprived wages and dignity to their families could not bring personal income at the end of the month. This government has hired 270,000 people, as far as I know. The former government fired 400,000 people. Pension funds are full, fewer funds are allocated from the pension and pension grants budgets are starting to grow. Salaries rose from the minimum wage and the average salary increased by 40%, inflation is very low. The growth rate in Serbia has never been equal to seven years, ever. Never, as far as I can remember. Therefore, this growth rate could only be maintained by increased investment and increased revenues from exports. Foreign reserve's up. So there's no other explanation. This government and this government, the president, the former government, the current government, ministers deserve, except criticism, and that kind of praise. I am grateful to the opposition who participates in parliament's work, not to praise them, but to criticise them. Thanks to constructive criticism, and the government needs anyone who criticises that thanks, if it is well-intentioned, and I believe that among those present is all well-meaning and that criticism should be accepted, but the criticism of those who do not participate in this work should not be taken seriously. They showed what they knew, they completely ruined the state, the state was nothing. They took the state from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is up to us to restore the state, raise its flag and raise the head and pride of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61645	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61646	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, in autumn 2019, Serbian parliament will mark economic laws. We'll be in communication almost continuously. As a People's MP, I am greatly pleased by your correct relationship with the MPs of the people, your knowledge and your dedication that you show. We can see the same from the functioning of your ministry and not only to the MPs, but also to the public of Serbia. In these two days, you have eliminated all the misunderstandings that existed among the MPs and in the public of Serbia. I understand that you once had to read it because it matters. The wrong image that can be sent is best solved when the truth and transparency are learned. In the principle debate on these three laws, we can understand that we are, I think, at the beginning of a revolutionary process, and when there is a merger of accounting, audit and IT sectors. Where's that gonna take us? I'm not sure, probably in full digitisation, as we are present today in the banking sector in the world. When we talked about these laws today and these, we operationally agreed with EU directives, operationally with international accounting standards, with the views of the Council of Europe, but made a mission and a vision. As we started to change the fiscal order in 2014, I think that with a set of these laws and a debate in principle, and in a few days and in amendments, we started a mission and a vision to change Serbia's accounting, to change Serbia and Serbia's revision into a new future generation. Five thousand years should have taken place from the records on which accounting was conducted and reached where we are today. Our mission and vision is at this moment not to be lag behind, as we have lag behind in fiscal policy and in all the parameters that have made us. Mr Minister, at the end of this debate, I would like to thank you on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group for the knowledge and respect you have shown these days in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-03-0.u61647	Thank you. Since no one's answering their word anymore, I'm concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in point. 4, 5th and 6th agenda and we'll continue at 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you.
