ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-03-0.u55346	Dear Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Mayor of the City of Belgrade, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the twenty-third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. I called this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by the President of the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation, His Excellency Mr Vjacheslav Volodin. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, His Excellency Mr. Volodin. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the State Duma delegation of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the mayor of the city of Belgrade, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia attending today's special session. I now call upon His Excellency Vacheslav Volodin to address us. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-03-0.u55347	Good afternoon, dear friends, dear Mrs. Gojkovic, dear colleagues, above all, I want to thank you for a warm welcome, for the opportunity to speak before you here, in front of our Serbian friends. It's a special day for me today. Along with my colleagues, I came to see my brothers, friends, representatives of the Serb people. We have the opportunity to discuss with you a number of issues, the development of our bilateral relations, the development of relations between our two countries. Russia and Serbia are countries that have lived in friendship and mutual existence throughout history, co-operation. The Serbian People's Proverbs says it is the one about friendship and the strong brotherhood of Serbs and Russians. The identity of any nation is determined by history, religion, culture and language. We have a lot in common in the history of the people, in the faith, in culture. The language is different, but not so much we wouldn't be able to understand each other. Russia has always considered it a duty to support the brotherly Serb people. She always went to his defense during complicated years. This was the case 140 years ago when Serbia gained so long-awaited independence and for this independence Russia fought alongside you. This was the case in 1914 when Russia entered the First World War in Serbia, and in October 1944, the Red Army and the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia freed the Serbian country from German fascist occupations. Four thousand and three hundred Soviet soldiers have remained in the Serbian country forever liberating Belgrade. More than 14,000 were wounded. I would like to thank the people of Serbia, for carefully guarding the graves of our fathers and grandfathers, for remembering those who gave life for freedom, peace from Nazism. The next year, 2020, we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the great victory over fascist Germany. It's our common holiday. By going through severe temptations, going through two world wars, our peoples today are unique in the assessment of experience and history. It's very important for us to fight together, try to change history, not justify the crimes of the Nazis and their assistants. Too high a price was paid by our peoples for freedom and independence to now surrender their memory to those who gave their lives for it. We are united not only by faith and common saints, but by one soul broad and good. The modern Serbian culture in Russia was presented by your prominent director, Emir Kusturica. Thanks to its creation and the special work of the citizens of Russia, we are getting to know today's Serbia, so that we can find a culture of the foundation of our common-civilised development and build a common future. Dear friends, our friendship, mutual respect, we have managed to preserve to this day. Our mission and responsibility to future generations is to do our best to preserve these good relationships for many centuries. The challenges in today's world are getting much more. The practice of double standards, meddling in the internal affairs of the sovereign state has become normal for some countries. We find that inadmissible. It is necessary to oppose this if we want to preserve our people, our country, its sovereignty and its independence. Look what happened to Libya and Iraq. On the verge of losing statehood was Syria. Countries whose nations lived in peace, in prosperity, today fight for survival. They're being torn down by conflicts and threats of permanent terrorist attacks. The Serbian people who survived NATO bombing better than anyone understands how harmful this is. Why did that become possible? Why is that happening? The problem is that the principles of international law are forgotten, the United Nations is ignoring the solution and the attempt to create a unilateral peace. Today sanctions, blockades, trade wars are growing in peace. The countries that used to use these illegal measures, hiding underneath. Now there is no doubt at all that they are rudely showing their economic interests. The principles of free trade are crossed. American trade sanctions have been imposed against our country and China, Turkey, Iran, North Korea, Cuba and Venezuela. European countries and companies are also receiving ultimatums, threats to end the realisation of joint economic projects, but the world will never be unilateral, no matter how much the United States wants it and as soon as they understand it, it will be better for the world and for America itself. Putting your will on other countries is inadmissible. The Serbian people chose their sovereign path, which is based on spiritual values, the preservation of cultural and historical traditions. Like the Russian people, we, together with you, condemn the provocations against Serbs in Kosovo. The entry of Kosovo's special forces into northern Kosovo on 28 May is one provocation, aimed at the intimidation of Serbs, to establish contact with these areas by force. We believe that the capture of UNMIK diplomats and officials, as well as the citizens of the Russian Federation, is a violation of international law. The United Nations should show its position. Its determination, concrete steps depend not only on authority, but also on peace in the Balkans. We believe that the behaviour of the European Union and the United States of America is inadmissible, which has led to an increase in tension in the region and has been undermined by the multi-annual work of the international community on the peaceful resolution of the Balkan crisis in this region. The absence of a clear reaction by the European Union to the provoking steps of Kosovors raises suspicion that the European Union is capable of being a mediator in dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. We believe that all sides should meet United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Those who do not respect solutions should be held accountable. The interests of sovereign Serbia should be taken into account in full scope in accordance with international law. Dear friends, in the 1990s, Russia went through the complicated consequences of the collapse of the Soviet Union. Our country was in a very difficult state, geopolitical challenges, destroying the economy more than during the 17th year revolution and the great country war in 1941. In 1945, as well as a real threat to Russia's collapse. But our people have overcome these threats. President Vladimir Putin, relying on the support of the entire society, addressed the issue of unification in the country and brought the economy out of the crisis. In 2014, illegal sanctions became a new challenge for Russia, but our country overcame them. We have in many ways changed the direction of our trade from the European market to other countries, we have started to deal more actively with imports, to develop our own agricultural production, we have protected the financial system and we have increased the defence capacity of the state. The challenges make us stronger, but much depends on who has been elected by the people to make decisions and to protect the interests of the country and citizens. Serbia has President Vukic, the people of Serbia have had luck with such a president who is truly experiencing everything that happens to a country that is fighting for sovereignty and respects its citizens. I'm sure you'll overcome the difficulty. Our President Vladimir Putin, knowing that I would speak here before you, MPs of the National Assembly, conveyed the warmest words of greeting and support. The Serbian brotherly people as always can count on Russia's help, he said. Dear colleagues, friends, since our meetings are becoming more common within the parliamentary dimension, we are contributing to the development of relations and that is why a decision has been made to create a high-level interparliamentary commission within which we will be able to discuss specific issues with you, the development of relations between Russia and Serbia. We're going to dedicate the fourth session to it today and I hope it will be effective. I invite you to Russia next year. It's our shared holiday, our 75th and our anniversary, and we have to meet her together. Once again, I want to express my gratitude for how you relate to the memory of those who at the price of their lives have given us freedom, the opportunity to work today, as well as the possibility to plan the future, to raise children, to think about grandchildren, and we have to do our best to be worthy of that memory. I wish you and all the citizens of Serbia peace, happiness, prosperity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-03-0.u55348	I thank the President of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, Mr Vjaceslav Volodin, for his address and conclude the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
