ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67114	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Miladin Ševarlic. We continue the joint principled search on proposals for the law referred to in paragraphs 20 to 36 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been invited to attend all members of the Government with their associates. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Stevanovic as authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67115	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of laws that are essentially the fiscal history of the Republic of Serbia. That shows us a few things. The first thing was that for years it was irrelevant to submit the final bill, so we experienced getting the final account in 2019 for example for 2002, 2003, etc. etc. It was a very bad practice that the state itself did not account for how it realised what was budgeted at the beginning of the year. As every entity in business in this country accounts for what it did at the end of the year through mandatory documents, so the state as the most superior entity in existence should each year make detailed accounts of how it spent money, how it invested money, what was going on with state property and at all show whether it was working with the attention of a good host, as much as possible, to transfer practices from economic life into practice when it comes to managing a country. Some of this data was simply eaten by the greatest time master. When it comes to time, you can't escape from time, those who have made these budgets in the first years of this century, many of them are now making budgets in some places that are not available to the human mind, because they are no longer among us, many of them enjoying the pensions they deserve, and many of these people have forgotten the methodologies by which the budget was made at that time. So there's probably a certain skeptic on our part, that when it's been so long, a fundamentally good part of the information base is lost as well as knowledge of exactly what the regulations were like 15.16 years ago and even seven or eight years ago. Also, even if we saw things that were bad, for many very bad things, it was outdated, and for many things you can't fix anything that was bad, and even less, it would make sense to deal with it. It's just that some things have happened, and there are no more corrections. The summer pass through these final documents tells us some more about things that are important in life and in the existence of every country, which are things that concern the history of the fiscal economy of a country. These are things where you can see how some policies have been broken into budgets, although most of these things you could see that you're running budgets in order. Here you could follow how the budgets are fulfilled and see many parts of our economic history, most sincerely speaking. So, essentially for most of these final accounts, the act of adopting itself will be an act of returning one legalism to Serbia, and that is, if the state has an obligation to do something is not burning that the state is doing it for a simple reason - if the state avoids doing what it is, it is difficult to believe that citizens will be incredibly motivated to do things without a mere threat of force. On the other hand, we all know that a mere threat by force can't be a good motivator, but that a good motivator is precisely an insight of those who should set examples of how to behave. The state that hasn't been in accounts for years is a state that's been signaling to citizens that they don't have to follow the law every time, settle accounts and do similar things. Therefore, the adoption of final accounts before the House of the People’s Assembly and their safe adoption that will take place, because I have not received any indication that it will not be so, says the fact that we have finished with one bad practice. Why this was not before we can discuss it for a long time, but in Serbia we have one problem that whenever there is something we love to discuss what was before, but not in a way that we can draw very strong lessons, but in a way that we actually try to shape some processes in the present by showing that they or they are extremely bad in every way or extremely good in every way. What should be science when it comes to observing the accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget for all these years is to learn where we were wrong, and mistakes were to learn where we made good decisions, and good decisions were made. One of the biggest delusions that exists in Serbia is to say that they were absolutely bad and absolutely good years, with it being, of course, an analysis of both budgets and accounts and, of course, budget rebalances, which were components of all budgets in some periods, it is possible to see what we should never do again, and what good practice should be repeated. It is, how can I say, the quality of a society that wants to be mature and wants to make better budget projections in today's past and be able to plan longer than two or three years in advance, which unfortunately the implementation of these budgets shows that very often has not been the case and that we have had some really big failures, but sometimes big and brave moves, I repeat, in all the years of these budget laws. It's just not like we've had, like, quiet water in the last 17 years, actually 16 covered by these reports. What a mature society would do and what I would talk about a little bit more, I'm not going to use the whole 20 minutes, because getting into the details is a job that's too big and it's not going to bring some, how can I say, knowledge that's unknown, and to analyze that big budget execution collection, you need, how can I say, and a lot of analytical material and the cost of processing that data essentially won't be of much use to you. The bottom line is that Serbia should be able to look at these budgets, or documents that speak of execution to be a country that is able to look at the future, a country that can view the past based on the future and have a clear vision where it wants to be in five, in 10, in 15 years. If we have now brought the documents in the Assembly that have been telling us about the previous 15 years, it would be good for our society and this home and executive power to be able to look a little further into the future and to have a heated discussion of the arguments, instead of constantly returning to the past although I say in the past we can score both bad things and good things. Simply, that may be the basic lesson of these documents, and I will repeat it every time, and that is what we want to live in in five, 10 and 15 years, because we have now introduced a 15-year horizon back into this assembly. I'm going to do it again -- there's nothing wrong with that, too bad this guy's reports haven't been filed in years. It's a question of where we want to see in every segment of the country, and we can see right from the data of budget execution where we are, it's wrong to see at some age and see, especially if we're looking at what's going on in our environment, where we could be and how much better this country could be than it has been and could be in the years that have been behind us. Whether Serbia's priorities in 10, 15 years will be the priorities of a country based on knowledge-based information technologies, modern ways of setting up a financial market, a flexible labour market where knowledge dominates, a small and efficient state that is able to wash out flows that exist in the world economy and in general in world flows. A country that is able to compete on the world, European and regional markets and which has no problem accepting all the outcomes of such fights. So, I won't be long, especially to spend 20 minutes, although it's to spend an expression that's a pervasive sound, so I might as well pull it, anyway. So the point of this whole debate is that in the future we need to discuss budgets or budget reports for the past year, that this debate should be within a reasonable period and that, from that debate, we have analytical materials when we decide on the budget, for example. for 2021, to give us a good additional material for quality discussion in 2019. Also, as lesson number two, I will repeat again – the state should not be the one who violates its own obligations and will do so year after year. It's a very bad lesson, it's a very bad thing, and that kind of thing should become the past of Serbia. Finally, as lesson number three, which we would teach is that Serbia must be a country that will definitely be turned to the future and that the past as such cannot be corrected, but if we are smart from the past we can learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67116	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us our actions, but gathered a misdemeanor as a colleague of Jevtovic's for the yellow company. A union of crooks, con men and Mutibars who are not present here today. In 1990, our country was under military and economic pressure. It resulted in economic and technological lagging, but since 2000 there has been no justification. Wild predatory privatisation has removed many companies that could have survived with little mind. The 17 billion debt they made was not as much a problem as a lack of resources to repay the debt. When they were in charge, they were supposed to make sure that when they were in debt, they bought a tractor, and then that tractor took part in the debt return. They didn't do it. They replaced the industrial rings around the cities with trade chains. The financial market has been sold completely to foreign banks guaranteed by the domestic state. When you left financials and trade, you were exploited in a certain way. It was found in 2012 where foreign borrowed money bought foreign goods. The debt grew, and there was no export to repay the debt, there was nothing to repay that debt from. The borrowing rate was 6-7%. So these were interest rates that are several times larger than those on which the state is in debt today. That had its limits. They didn't only owe 17.7 billion. You're all forgetting the donor support that was supposed to help the country recover faster after 2000. The donor support amounted to over 4.5 billion euros. They spent it. Also, everyone forgets that privatisation revenues were 6.7 billion in various ways, and that privatisation was a grab. There are international organisations that claim that more than 50 billion dollars have been taken out of these privatisations. So 6.7 billion in writing, just 6.7. Every seventh euro is registered from privatisation in the country. They also spent 6.7 billion. This is where I count "Mobtel". It's been forgiven both by the Paris and the London Club for about five billion. All in all, outside of the 17.7 billion, they spent still so much on donor support, privatisation revenue and forgiveness of the Paris and London Club, for what debt was reduced, but they soon filled it with new borrowing. So they didn't just spend that 17 billion, they spent 34 billion. For those 34 billion, I don't know if they built a few miles of highways. Not even investors have been brought in, the country remains technologically and economically lagging behind the least developed countries in Europe, not the EU. Had it not been for a change in 2012, I responsibly argue that the state of Serbia would no longer exist. It would likely raise the issue of internationalisation of Vojvodina, and Kosovo would probably already be very independent, as the yellow company, the union of frauds, mutibarics and fraud would by now surely realise what Albanians in Kosovo wanted. Neither the political nor the economics have produced any results. After 2012, since 2013, this country has started to reform, primarily fiscal and financial, and later economically, the investors are being intensively brought in. We were no longer in debt after the yellow company and were buying other people's goods for someone else's money. They lived on the man in charge, not on the man who earned it. The time has come for the money to be made, not only for the purchase of goods imported, but for these exports to cover not only imports and consumption, but for the production to cover and the debts, i.e. the repayment of debts from their time, which were made, and for that debt none of the business activities were raised. So we have to live off the profits and pay back the debts they made at the time they were living off the man in charge. You, Mr. Arsic, certainly know that these loans they made with 6% interest due to the country's low rating resulted in interest rates over the last seven years, ranging from billions to 1.1 billion euros. They say that this government is in charge of seven, eight billion, but they won't say that we only paid debts, or only interest on their debts, that we paid in the previous seven-year, seven billion years. When you add up their debt and add the interest we've paid over the last seven years, you get exactly what the public debt of the state is today. Meanwhile, 320km of highway was built, employs about 300 or over 300,000 people and mostly in production. Our GDP doesn't grow out of foreign trade now, so it has its limits. Our GDP is also growing from tourism revenues that are now over one and a half billion euros. Our social product is growing from production, our import coverage and exports have crossed 70%, in their time it was less than 50%. So, for every two euros of imports, there was only one euro of exports. Now it's quite different, and that's where the course was acquired and stability because there is no, increased production and exports, there is no shortage of foreign exchanges. Foreign inflows satisfy foreign exchange outflows. The revenues from the diaspora are also significant and that's why our foreign reserves are growing, our gold reserves are also growing, our reserves are in gold, and that's why the course is still. It's a great success of this government, and it needs to be stressed all the time. So, economic successes on the economic plan, the former regime is trying to devalue by making affairs for the alleged affair, to try to undermine power. I used to say that those who have threatened us outside in the 1990s and those who have stolen from us from the inside since 2000, that they will join together and that those who stole from us from the inside, will try to realise the goals of helping us realise NATO's goals, that what NATO's Pact failed in 1999 and 2000, will now help to realise these goals, particularly the goals of Albanians at KIM. Hence, I warn citizens that their various marines, and their various Alexics, a proven fraud who took from the National Employment Service for their NGO organisation 55m dinars or 600,000 euros, do not listen and take all the information they provide to the public, because their goal is to bring down, not only the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, but the ultimate goal is to bring down the state of Serbia, the recognition of the KIM they have not completed. They do not call in vain on the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which they provided through Vuk Jeremic, in exchange for the US in 2008 to affect Albanians' declaration of independence before Tadic was elected, and later all Democrats returned those services, and as they said, they will not cross those red lines set by the United States. The international climate has changed, not entirely, but is now far more favourable to leadership and the state of Serbia. So, the more favourable circumstances are and the less support Albanians have on the outside, but that's why these inside are trying at all costs to support Thaci, Haradinaj, Kurti, I don't care how these alleged statesmen from NATO's Kosovo base, from our southern province, are named. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's economic successes will continue its trend. Gross domestic product will grow, 4% when GDP rises, our citizens should know that in such a situation we earn 1.8 billion more annually than the previous year, and in 2018 and 2010, cumulatively, we have raised 3.5 billion more than in previous years, which means we can spend so much more. But in doing so, raising the infrastructure, bringing new investors, encouraging domestic investors, domestic capital, to raise the employment of a population that fell below 10%, to raise productivity and to partially move on to more productive branches. I advocate, first of all, for agriculture and to make additional value for agricultural production, not only for plant production and exports of 800m euros by exporting plant products. I advocate the production of meat, milk, eggs and processing, the larger the stage of processing, domestic processing in Serbia, thus increasing GDP from agriculture and food industries. If we were to invest in our livestock production, instead of 800m euros in exports, we would have a few billion more. Because if you have one hectare of plant production, you can earn a thousand, up to 1,500 euros. If you have livestock that will spend that plant production, then you will earn 3,000 euros per hectare. At 3,500 acres, figure out how much it is. If you rewrite that, instead of 800 million exports of plant production, you'll get five or six billion. Soon, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens, the economic power of a country will be measured by the amount of food a country produces or can produce and by the amount of drinking water. We must not miss this opportunity and therefore, in the next period, use all the potential, and to say that the World Bank has given us 50m euros these days to borrow additional value from agricultural production, so that part of the loan will be non-refundable, that our farmers can raise agriculture to a higher stage and thus make an additional gross domestic product from agriculture, and when we earn that money, it will come to us and our citizens in the Republic of Serbia in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67118	Thank you. Since none of the elected presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, I give my word to MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67119	Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the final account, its analysis and serious approach to the final account and its importance is very important for future development and for the proper attitude towards the budget and ultimately something that is necessary for the full responsibility of us here as a legislative body, but also for the competent authorities responsible for the implementation of our decisions, i.e. for the implementation of the budget. The role of the National Assembly, in addition to its representative role, its legislative roles, the National Assembly, either directly or indirectly, through its respective committees, has its own supervisory role. This role is often forgotten and neglected, and I think it is necessary to more significantly affirm it in our practical behavior. In this respect, I am very glad that we have received final accounts of insight, although the data are much more numerous, it is not easy to access a detailed analysis, but I will look again at the topic which I am thoroughly dealing with through the position of the chairman of the Education Committee these days and the past weeks and months, and this is a matter of spending budgets in education. So, although it is a very broad spectrum, especially from kindergartens, through primary, secondary to higher education, it is necessary to impose a more significant analysis, i.e. control of the spending of total funds, but where there is a significant gray area, it is a high education, and for the reasons of misreading and interpreting the autonomy of the university, which is guaranteed, but it primarily refers to the educational and scientific aspect, as well as the university's independence in making its decisions of organisational, which have implications for the scientific and educational field. However, when it comes to the financial field, i.e. the spending of funds received from the budget, by the founders, so the government, which is the enforcer of decisions and the law of the National Assembly, is therefore simply not allowed to allow responsible people in higher education to hide behind autonomy in spending budgets, but is of great importance that we have feedback, as we now have, but should not stop at this. All other mechanisms, including other financial supervisory authorities, should be used and a more detailed consideration should be given to how funds are spent at the University. In this respect, it is necessary to access the adoption of the University Finance Act as soon as possible, in which the responsibility of the university's competent authorities would be specified in more detail. We have all kinds of information coming from the field, from various universities where there are certain abuses. Let's just say, we're permanently getting information from the state University of Novi Pazar that there are a number of financial abuses, and that's why it's necessary to access such information and determine the responsibilities of this issue. We have one case that's well known to everyone. So a few years ago it was built out of budget funds, a building was built for the needs of a student home in Novi Pazar, and to this day we know that no student has entered that building, that this building has never been brought in for purposes. What it's used for I don't know, but it's not possible to change the purpose and deceive the public, trick the competent authorities and one building that was built for the needs of students, or dormitories, to use for other particular interests or administrations of the university or other employees or for what other purposes. This building is not in itself a problem, the problem is actually the fact that it's possible in one state, in one orderly system in 21. For centuries, just so large abuses can be built, and that is only possible if you leave it to a certain administrative system in the case of certain universities that they simply behave on their own. It is necessary to repeat, so-called independent and additional resources that universities also have to examine, because there are huge abuses, huge crime, which cannot be left to such an extent, because it is in fact the influences that are illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67120	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67121	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was selected from the SNS list Aleksandar Vucic, otherwise I represent myself in the Serbian Assembly of the USS whose president I am. As I have always supported the proposals of the law with the accent and the things I've said, and I've always said from the small-scale, southeast of Serbia, undeveloped areas of agriculture. I think it's good to hear the voice of people living in areas with difficult living conditions coming from rural areas coming from our villages. I think it's good that now in the Assembly, what we're talking about now is these final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget that were made from 2002 to 2018. I think these are all elements for a lot of things, where you can see the parameters of how it was done from 2000 to 2012. After that, it's different because we see the growth and development of our country's Serbia. We are witnessing that after 2000, a large number of companies that were very strong, powerful companies in areas that were once developed areas, one such is the Srlig where I come from. The purpose was once a developed area, but after 2000, when those experts came, the people of the liberators who freed us from profit, from business, freed all our people from jobs, in 2000, so we had big problems here specifically. The first privatisations that were made in my municipality from where I came from, and such similar privatisations in the surrounding municipalities and in the southeast and Nis were catastrophic privatisations where all were at the expense of workers, at the expense of local communities, to the detriment of the Serbian state. It was only an interest, the narrowness of individuals who were at the top of the government at the time, both republican and regional authorities. One of the people who privatized one company was the first privatisation in Srlig. The company "Krno-Svrlig" was privatized, which at the time had over 5,000 coats, those quality coats in its own possession. At the time, those experts who were at DOS, who freed all of us from these good things, they privatized the company, bought it, and in the new privatisation system were federal MPs who were from some other political party that was in DOS at the time. It was an indicator, the first privatisation that had been destroyed, that had failed. After that, they were both electronic and "May" and textiles. Most of these privatisations have been done to harm our people, our workers, to the harm of the Serbian state, and in the interest of individuals. I think it was a catastrophic situation. At the time I was union president, I was trying to stop some of that stuff, but it couldn't be done. All these reports that we now have here, which we are now talking about the final budgets since 2002 and here, see the parameters of how it was done when it was sold one, the other, the third. It was very nice to spend the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then it came to the situation that the deficits were catastrophic, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia itself was in very poor shape, but this has no bearing on it, and 2003, 2004, 2005, the privatisations continued in 2006. Privatisations were made from bankruptcy, where the bankruptcy managers were rich, where it was all at the expense of our workers. That time since 2000, they've been here, they've been and they've destroyed cooperatives, cooperative assets, agricultural holdings. All this is reflected through the final budgets of the Republic of Serbia where it is seen to have been very bad. The layoffs, unemployment. What about agriculture? Agriculture had more power to fight in that period, had more power to work, but step by step and it slowly began to shut down. We don't have any more young people who want to deal with agriculture. A bad example when cooperatives were destroyed, that time in 2000, then over here. Therefore, they were all elements for the final account where the Republic of Serbia's budget was in the deficit, where there was an alarming state. By 2012, we were getting what was bad. Now, after that, slowly but certainly some things change through savings done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The then prime minister of the government since 2014, Mr. Vukic, the current president of Serbia's state of savings, has been slowly but surely stabilising the Republic of Serbia's budget where it is seen through these final accounts. One of the things that is very important to me is that in the next period since we have the opportunity to see through these final budgets how it is done, to continue at such a pace as to do, with it being very important to put the accent, to invest more in areas that are undeveloped, mountainous areas in the municipality that are demographically threatened, to invest there, to allocate more funds for newborn children, for unemployed families, for the marriage community, to leave out hospitals, health care hospitals in our villages, to stimulate them there by hiring people through programmes that need to stimulate specific municipalities that are undeveloped and demosted, to free employers who open jobs, to encourage these workers there through the compulsory taxes of workers and freighters. One of the things that is very important is to provide more resources for projects such as cooperatives, agricultural landowners, that there young people through the cooperative programme have the opportunity to work, to employ, to release certain species, to employ people who are professional, and on the other hand to give them the possibility that at least a year these people will be paid through the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Whether through a cooperative program or through the Ministry of Agriculture program. The subsidies for agriculture must, as regards these small environments, undeveloped areas, be significantly higher and be given the possibility there if someone wants to form a landownership, to provide him with funds, to be on a certain period of time or grants or through some specific quality opportunities. I think it is necessary to invest in such environments, and I think that is what is needed for the development of the southeast of Serbia and for the development of undeveloped areas. Once again, I will support and vote in favour of these final budgets from 2002 to 2018 as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party. Once again it turned out that by 2012, the government was harmful, poor and burdensome to all of us who are now returning it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67122	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67123	Thank you, Your Honor. Listing all these final accounts, I came across an item that reminded me of a really important project that we don't have today, it's the Office for the Development of Undeveloped Areas, which was an extremely important mechanism, an extremely important mechanism for all those areas that haven't been developed enough. However, I also understand the reason why she was then abolished. Unfortunately, it was at a time when Mr. Ugljanin was in the government of Serbia and he had the resources of that office, and therefore we had a lot of abuses of these budgets, and various reports at the time suggested that these years were available in a way that the funds for agricultural development from that budget were received by members of activists and family members, Mr. Ugljanin for the opening of agricultural land in the centre of Novi Pazar, in the main streets of Novi Pazar and so on, without speaking to the biased foreign divisions of all the agricultural tools available to that authority, i.e. Offices. Unfortunately, what should have been distributed to ordinary farmers, which should have accelerated, in particular, the development of agriculture in those parts, did not end where it was intended, but ended exclusively with party activists. Now, when we look at all these figures that have been available to that office for years, it's not clear how all this could have happened, how none of the executives and the Anti-Corruption Agency and all the others have ever asked why these funds go where they shouldn't go, why they're endangering those who are worth it, who could have accelerated the economy of the whole country, but also the Sandzak region and other undeveloped areas, they're allowed to manipulate most of those funds and that they're actually going to those who shouldn't or don't have to go. Not to mention the famous cooperatives that went to those funds that don't exist today, which were just informed to get that money out. It was a good reason to then stop the existence or management of the office by the one who abused it for personal and party particular interests. However, it is really important and important to have one of these offices, and I think it would be good for the next government to reconsider that this office is being restarted, but in the best possible way available to those resources that are allocated and that they are purposely going to those families, those holdings, those agricultural cooperatives that will be able and willing to invest in economic, agricultural development, to ensure that the economy and agriculture of undeveloped areas is better, that it is better quality and that a kind of project for the sustainable development of rural areas is achieved, because the huge items in the budget for this office, for these projects. However, what we have on the ground today does not say absolutely in favor that it is shared where it should be, where it was also intended for those categories of people who are overnecessarily in need of such help. It is another indicator that those who are unable to give that kind of amanet should not be allowed to do so and that it is very dangerous to trade with what they are state resources, in a way that meets certain political compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67124	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. The word is Miljan Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67125	Indeed, this is another indication that the congregation is not doing well without radicals and cannot. Since 2016, when we returned to parliament, under the pressure of the SRS, it is good that the ruling majority has realised that the time has come to comply with the laws and that, as much as possible, they are not justified both by this House and by the laws and by the citizens of Serbia, because the Law on the Budget System requires that the final account of the budget be made every year for the previous year, and that provision must be respected no matter who is in power and how many MPs in the assembly benches. They have to be delivered on time and on a regular basis. What hurt me and the MPs of the SRS is this first part of the withdrawal for interest. Only for expenditure on interest in the Republic budget for 2020 are budgets of 111.4 billion dinars or 942m euros, accounting for 8.57% of total budget expenditure for next year. The amount of funds in the actual number is best shown by the fact that 91.3 billion dinars are planned for the Ministry of Defence, which is lower than the interest allocation by 18%, if we know that there are nearly 49,000 employees in the Ministry of Defence and that their planned budget for next year is 90.8 billion dinars, it is clear how much interest expenditure is in such a high amount. What we can conclude is that it is not the SNS defacto's fault for enormous duties, because these duties have followed us whoever came to power in 2012 to this day, in charge of the greatest pests that Serbia has seen and the Serbian parliament, and these are the bloated ones in different forms from 2000 to 2012, but it is your fault that the moment you came to power you did not inform the Assembly, this House, about all those factories that were shut down during the regime, the number of factories and enterprises that were sold in vain, as well as the example we know, for the three sugars that were sold for the entire nine euros and how and for what huge loans were spent, and from them are covered deficits for the missing budget revenues. For interest since 2007, as of 2020, as much as 10.1 billion euros have been directed. That's where you make the parallel. If we take that for expenditure, for gross earnings of all employees in 2020, it is 2.7 billion euros, which means for net earnings of around 1.5% and for interest next year, 942m euros. Therefore, we come for interest to swallow 63% of the net earnings of all employees. And then there's this problem that we're talking about, that the protracted anti-national government, which was from 2000 to 2012, comes up with the fact that we've been in debt to our throats, and even though we've had a development since 2015, drastic development, and we can't serve our debts on time, we can't pay them off in full, and then we can only figure out what's seen from the Dosmanian government, from the 2015 budget, when interest has been paid at least a billion and 83 million euros, and for total gross earnings slightly less than two billion euros. Therefore, then half of gross earnings went to interest, and 72% of the net earnings of all employees in the Republic of Serbia. What is further interesting is part of the allocation for the missing funds for full pension payments. The republic's budget for next year planned the missing funds to pay pensions of 111.4 billion dinars or 1.33 billion euros, accounting for 11.8% of total expenditure. The best showing of the 2012 budget is how much separation is at stake, when 273.4 billion dinars or 2.57 billion euros are planned for expenditures, with a share in the total expenditure of 26.46% at that time. That year, only 249.3 billion dinars were targeted for the gross earnings of all Republic budget employees, less than 8.8%. For these 14 years, 26.6 billion euros have been allocated to the missing funds for full pension payments. If we look at the allocation for capital investment from the Republic budget, in the past 13 years and for the next 2020, capital expenditure on investment from the Republic budget ranged from 11.87% in 2007 to 4.14% in 2012 in order to rise again in the budget for the next year to 14.90% in the Republic budget. For these 14 years, capital expenditure on investment investments from the republic's budget amounted to nine billion and 220m euros, out of which investments over the past three years, plus planned investments in the following year cost five billion and 62m euros, and investments in the 10 previous years are only four billion and 158m euros. So, per year, these average investments in these four years are three times bigger, and once again, the question is, how is it possible that it has grown so much and there are so many separations if we know and if we see from this data how they've led us and where dosmania has led us? What is definitely missing in these final accounts is that this would be the right place to answer all the important public issues, the part that speaks, among others, and about not being sufficiently clarified on the basis of which the state paid fines and penals, although this amount is large and growing, every year more and more, especially in 2020, but what is particularly interesting is the part that speaks of users of subsidies for foreign investors who are not known. I will remind everyone here in parliament, this is important because of the citizens of Serbia, Deputy President of the SRS and MP Aleksandar Seselj asked here several months ago in this House a parliamentary question to the Prime Minister, as is allowed by the Rules of Procedure. But according to the Rules of Procedure, what the people do not know, the minister has no obligation to respond, or the Prime Minister, and the answer has not arrived from the Prime Minister, which is very important to know. The issue has just been directed to beneficiaries of subsidies for foreign investors. How many investors have arrived in Serbia, foreign investors since 2012? How much did you allocate for jobs exactly? How many of these factories, businesses, companies, the moment the guaranteed four-year assets were spent by the government, were given through subsidies to these companies, shut down, left Serbia? Is that number measurable, immeasurable, accurate? How accurate is it compared to the number of enterprises that arrived? In addition to not having received a reply from the Prime Minister to specific questions, then we're eye-stealing that in this final account you don't have a detailed description of which companies you've singled out, how much have you given, how much is it per job? Is that five, seven, eight, ten, twelve, fifteen thousand? What did those investments bring? What are the effects of these investments, how many have returned to the state? Just one description, then what should we discuss? So, you just put it on -- so much and so much resources is allocated, it goes for it and bye-bye, bye-bye. The final account and parts of the final account are just to see and have nothing to hide, to see what it is and where the money of the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia went. To prevent such things from happening and to accuse you of unconscious economic policymaking, unfortunately also us SRS MPs, as well as citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, in addition to the major efforts of the Serbian state to improve the economic life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, local powerful people, the SNS, are making the most of it there. I'll give you two examples. The first is the Voćarska cooperative "Ice –Fruit Koretište", founded on 21 August 2018. The cooperative received a monetary situation from the Kosovo and Metohija Office to build and equip a 26m distillery. Members of this cooperative, by chance or not, are relatives of the municipal council president Srdjan Mitrovica. Goran Cvetkovic, director of the cooperative, besides being the brother of Aunt Srdjan Mitrovica, is also a member of the municipal council. Velibor Tasic is Uncle Srdjana Mitrovica's brother. Daniela Markovic was born the wife of the president of the municipal council. Nebojsa Djokic, the father-in-law of the municipal council, who also received a two million dinar agricultural machinery project. Another example of the Voćarska cooperative "Organic-Fruits Zebince", founded also on 21 August 2018, on the same day, the same month and same year as the Voćarska cooperative "Ice –Fruit Koretište". The fruit cooperative received from the Office for Kosovo and Metohija projects on two occasions worth 14 million and 27 million dinars for the refrigerator and distillery. The members of the cooperative are: Aleksandar Stojanovic, the director of the cooperative is the nephew of the wife of the president of the municipality of Novo Brdo Svetislav Ivanovic. Vesna Ivanovic is the wife of the president of the municipality of Novo Brdo Svetislav Ivanovic. Dejan Vulić is an employee of Novo Brdo municipality. He is a member of the cooperative's wife Zorica Vulić, who is employed in the medical system, so-called "Zorica Vulić". the countries of Kosovo. Yes, gentlemen, in the so-called health care system. The countries of Kosovo, the ones you send subsidies to, and the money you supply. The monetary stimulation for the purchase and construction of machinery, as well as for the adaptation of the hazelnut packaging facility and other bony fruit, also got Snezana Trajkovic from the village of Donja Budriga. Her husband Stanko Trajkovic is a member of the council and worker in the Municipality of Partesh. You see, in order not to do this kind of thing, you need to respect, first you in the Assembly of fellow Members of the People's Parliament. You can't hear this, you can hear it here for the reason that your character, Milovan Dracun, doesn't think he's planning a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, that's what the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija need to know. The meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee are not being held. These things try to hide in one way, but what they say is, in a lie are short legs and quickly come to the surface. This certainly does not contribute to anyone, not to the citizens of Serbian nationality and to all non-Albanian nationalities that respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, living in Kosovo and Metohija, because this is exactly the kind of thing that happens further destimulates the Serbian people to remain on their hearths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67126	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The word is Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67127	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, the final account report since 2002 certainly is, above all, a political decision, and in one part an economic decision. There is no parliament today and certainly never existed in Europe, in the world, in the history of Serbia, there is no such decision where we are discussing final accounts in the previous 15-20 years. There is probably no MP, not just me, in Serbia's history, but probably not one MP in the history of the world who was supposed to understand what was going on in a country's finances 15-20 years ago. In a country that wasn't called Serbia, in a country where these economic laws didn't apply, where some ministers you don't remember were, to ask the citizens of Serbia if they remember what they did on 21 August 2002? How can we know what was going on at the Foreign Ministry, and how can we vote relevantly on the final accounts? And this is just the end, the point of one bad economic time, the end, where we in the Assembly have to understand and say that because of Serbia's interest, its respect in the world, we have to have final accounts, because how do you talk about economic parameters if you have inflation, then you don't actually have macroeconomic policy, you don't have monetary. If you don't have fiscal policy, Mr. Minister, then you have unemployment, then you have a lack of social product growth, then you have privatisation. If you have a budget deficit, and you had it at the level of the Republic of Serbia and the general state, you don't actually have an economic policy. If we've been discussing the final accounts since 2002, then we can say that we formally had economic policy, we didn't have one. We had a robbery of social property and a transfer to private property. In fact, they were stealing our economic future. They were stealing from us, in fact, the future and we today when we vote on these decisions, in fact we can say that we accept the conclusions, but Serbia's history has said and assessed that period. She rated it as a period of inflation, economic scarcity, millions of problems and formally my generation, these members of this parliament, as they would say in Shumadia "failing us" to vote for these reports, to vote for reports, to vote for some people to say that professors from the university who were once ministers, governors of the people's banks, who were key economic policy holders along with tycoons essentially made Serbia look like it used to be and that's the past. This is the past and I can speak from 2014 to today and say that Serbia today looks different, and by 2014, it looked because of the final accounts, because of such policymaking. When we talk about the final accounts, they're actually the past, and we need to talk about the future. The future is the essence. Speaking of final accounts, I would like to ask, first of all, not only are we talking about the Ministry of Finance's report, but we are talking about final accounts such as the University of Belgrade, I have a need because my own revenues are also part of the final accounts to ask the Rector of Belgrade University, as well as other rectors where they end their own funds from the university and university in Serbia? This is certainly a significant issue, not only the budget of the Ministry of Finance, the Committee on Budgetary and Assembly, but also other direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget. The state of Serbia this year gives 300 million to finance higher education. The university's own revenues are another 110m euros. Madam Rector, where do they end up with 110m euros? That's what I ask you from the Committee on Budgets, that's what the Assembly asks you, it asks you about Serbia's final account for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2020. That's what your colleagues from your colleges ask you that some professors have 90 grand and another 500 grand and nobody knows who they have. Everyone who asks doesn't really say where those funds come from. The state audit institution, Madam Rector, says 95% of its own income comes from tuition. Five percent you earn in colleges, operating on the market, selling your knowledge, your brains, issuing space. So, just 5%, 95% in the form of out-of-budgest incomes, or parafiscal incomes of paying citizens for your tuitions. Of these 95%, which are intended to improve teaching, Mrs. Rector and other rectors, essentially 47 to 90% end up in college employees' salaries. I'm talking to those who pay tuition, those who take loans, who give high-priced scholarships to state schools, your money doesn't end up promoting classes. Forty-seven to 90% of that money goes to pay even though the state of Serbia gives 300 million, pays every salary employed in the university. So those who pay tuition should know that the rector says and submits a report on the spending of their own income, would see how they spend and know that when you give 100 thousand one year for the tuition of your child, in fact that you don't have that way of working and that way of transferring money, you could give 10,000, or 50,000, and your child would be educated in the same way, by the same criteria. It is the final account of the Republic of Serbia from 2002 to 2019. That's Serbia's future. If we want new, young, educated generations, if we want Serbia to look different, then we need to know how much it costs us tuition and ask why someone has to pay the tuition without knowing how, completely non-transparently, it ends up as an allowance, so you have teachers, according to Belgrade University professors, who have 90 and another 500 thousand. If someone says they don't have to answer, and if someone says they're not invited to tell the Public Budget Committee of Serbia where the money ends, okay, but academic integrity means that you have a correct relationship not with me as a national MP, but according to your student, who, instead of 10 thousand for tuition in the year, will be paid 100 thousand, 90 thousand for your salaries, although Serbia, the Budget Committee, the Serbian Parliament already pays all these salaries. The final accounts are not just the Assembly. It's not just the Budget Committee. The final accounts are Serbia. There are a lot of things we need to change. Mr. Minister, the minister who deals with education and the finance minister should essentially address the problem of this bone that we are looking for in the future, because there is no responsibility for a rector who does not have to, but responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, and we represent them for their functioning and education of their children. We from SNS have been through criticism, we've been through misunderstandings in 2014. We passed the tents here when they passed the Labour Act. We've come up with a number of challenges. Today, when you look at what Serbia actually looks like, we know that we have made the result. We have shaded our political dream and made Serbia a country that has a BB+ rating, as never in history. We're in debt at an interest rate of 0.34%. It's a risk premium. This has, above all, resulted in political decisions and the economic power of Aleksandar Vukic to reform Serbia and make it a different country since 2004. We took our dream from the SNS in economic terms. Those who drown in the frustrations of their economic decisions and failed political processes should certainly stay where they are. Serbia's future is what stems from the past and from 2014, to our happiness and happiness, Serbia looks economically different.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67128	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Right on the replica of Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic: How? On what grounds? Mr. Martinovic, I assume he mentioned the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67129	Don't cause incidents at the session, Martinovic. There's no need. It was nice to listen to Progressive MP Kovacevic and his criticism of the Dossmanian regime, very nice, even a man not to mind him. However, there is another problem he does not mention, and it is in the level of behaviour of the Dossmanian government. The MP Kovacevic stole SRS's parliamentary mandate in Kragujevac in time and participated in the post of Mayor Radomir Nikolic and then Kragujevac began to die. The criminal affair is catching up with each other, and nothing is going to be done. Now you voted yesterday, and you voted, as I received the information, a budget of 10 billion dinars, and so far the charge has been 6 billion for the Kragujevac. You almost doubled the annual budget for Kragujevac. When they asked the incompetent with the mayor's title, how would he complement it, he said. Yes, it is. If he sells in Bajchetin, there's the most expensive land, the most valuable, the most fertile, maybe four billion to be evicted. But in the Kragujevac municipality, there is nowhere to sell the country or sell within a year, and Fiat is in crisis. Therefore, what is your responsibility is the situation in Kragujevac, and the main culprit for this situation is the mayor of Kragujevac. You chose him only because he was the son of Tomislav Nikolic, otherwise you wouldn't have given him a flock of sheep to guard. Is it true, Kovacevic? Don't, Mircic, it's a serious situation. So, you need to clean up a little bit in front of your doorstep, so get going. And what you've been attacking dosmania, I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67130	Thank you, Professor Seselj. The right to replica has Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67131	Dear MP, certainly we all have our own political past, we cannot escape from it. Someone can judge she's bad. Probably every one of us who deals with politics thinks that at the right moment, at that moment, he was making the right moves. It's nothing controversial, you have your opinion of my political activity, I have my own, and there's no reason for us to compromise. The budget of the town of Kragujevac is 10 billion. And it is as rare when in the history of that city so great. Maybe since 2008, the first budget that's big. He's the result of one key thing. The town of Kragujevac currently has an industrial zone that has about 80 ha. There's a letter on the intentions of the fourth investment company in the world that wants to buy 30 ha and pay them, so I don't open up the topic of how much money. It's a legal basis, a letter of intent, and it's the result of bringing in a factory, one of the biggest in the last 10 years. That company's already here. He wants to expand his performance to 30 ha. The space is at the entrance to Kragujevac, next to the cross. That's the legal basis for a budget like this. You are right, if there is no sale, the real budget of the town of Kragujevac is 5 billion and 400 own revenues. If we sell something, it grows by 100 million, 200 million. At this point, it's at 6 billion and 700. Of course, Kragujevac isn't in the ideal economic situation, he's not today, he's never been, but we're trying to solve it. My responsibility for the town of Kragujevac certainly is significant. I've been a councilman there for 16 years. I am the chairman of the Budget Committee, but certainly, and if we make mistakes, in the elections that come in a few days, a few months, the citizens of Kragujevac will say what we have done and whether we have sinned.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67132	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67133	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure in the position of 104th Replication. You had no right to speak without mentioning any MP's group, no personal name, to give your word to Mr. Seselj. On the other hand, a member of 106 was injured because the agenda item and the topic discussed was not part of the debate that you gave the floor. Therefore, we ask you to really take the Rules of Procedure, to work exclusively on it, not to be afraid here of certain political representatives, so because of that fear you give them a word for no reason, because this leads to the right to replication all of us have on that basis. If you take that principle, then let it apply to everyone. It's a request and criticism on your account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67134	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. Professor, you have no right to reply when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's possible, and I stand by to interpret the Rules of Procedure more liberally. That's why I gave Professor Vojislav Seselj my word. I don't see the problem with that. The man didn't insult anyone, didn't say anything wrong, expressed his political stance. And so I will continue to interpret. I don't want to make it out of the National Assembly... According to the Rules of Procedure, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67135	Mr. Chairman, I had to react because I'm not scaring anyone here, especially not you, because you're having a proper session. It never happened that I physically attacked some MP. Did it happen? And at any moment, I'm able to retaliate with all means, but I'm not the first to attack anyone. Is it true? Why would anyone be afraid of me here? He can only be afraid of my arguments that simply grind like steam rollers in front of him. But I'm not jeopardizing anyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67136	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead my injury to the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Seselj: No. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67137	Thank you. Given that we are discussing today something that, as my esteemed colleague Goran Kovacevic said, notsens, a kind of nonsensus, we are discussing the budgets of 16 years ago. Why? Because such a catastrophic situation has led to power since the 2002 period, which apparently has not accounted for what it did to the citizens. The truth is, since 2002, these budgets, all around 2012 and 2014 respectively, give the right picture or mirror to any government from that period of time. Well, just as it is in the discussions, when this point of the agenda is, say, that mirror, that picture is very, very ugly and very, very bad. First of all, it is something that when viewed from this distance, looks like a cataclysmic state in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, in the economy of the then common state, which was called Yugoslavia at one time, then Serbia-Montenegro, etc. What was the picture and mirror of that time period? Well, let's just say it was excessive borrowing. We heard yesterday from Honorable colleague Tomic Aleksandra that interest payments of 1.5 billion euros per year, that the funds of one-off credit borrowing were literally shown in an extremely illegal manner, that this created room for new borrowings and that these continued borrowings in 2014 brought the state literally into bankruptcy. From this state of bankruptcy, since 2014, the state has been revitalising itself, Serbia is revitalising itself, establishing financial consolidation, financial discipline, and, of course, this has resulted in something that is extremely positive, which is economic growth, it is preventing any inflationary movement, it is an investment renaissance and all that is in the interest of better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We heard yesterday in comments that the funds from the sale of privatisation entities were recorded in one completely illegal way, even in supplies. All of this had to be in reporting periods for every year since 2002 until today. The question is, why isn't he and who's responsible for it? The question of responsibility is not questionable, but the question is who has brought and suffered the consequences of it? Apparently, those who were supposed to take it aren't. I will therefore point to facts that in an unequivocal way point to the eclectic examples of the most harsh violation of the law. Privatisation in Serbia has started in various visions since 1989 and over a million employees have been covered by the privatisation and restructuring process of the economy. But instead of economic development, which is the basic objective of privatization and restructuring, there has been a consequence that no single country wants, because it is a cancer that metastasises and kills the state, which is corruption, which is rough violations of employee rights, that is all anomalies that lead to systemic corruption, as well as everything that ultimately leads to a final epilogue, and that is - complete destabilization of the system. From 2002 to 2010, and perhaps in 2011, more than 2,400 companies were sold in privatisation procedures. Most of the time, it was intentional devaluement of the company's assets by new customers. Privatization process control didn't exist. I have to draw attention to the frantic fact, which is that the number of broken privatisations is over 400. According to some statistics, 636 privatisation processes are said to have failed, more than 200,000 employees were in those privatisation entities where there was an end to the contract on the sale of the assets of these business entities, i.e. privatisation entities. Here, dear colleague Vujic asks the question - who answered? Unfortunately, any kind of responsibility, no criminal or civil responsibility, has been launched against the faces that are the generators of these terrible problems. In all this privatisation process, due to Serbian citizens, to hear another frantic data, which is that 65% of businesses have been shut down. All 35% of the business entities in the privatisation process are operating today. What does 65% off mean? Because of the failure of privatisation procedures, they mostly went bankrupt. Some percentages are certainly also covered by liquidation, but all the consequences of a criminal procedure, i.e. a privatisation process that was carried out just like that, are criminal. What's even more fragrant is that 75% of the employees are out of work. Now, if you consider the number of millions of employees that were covered by privatisation, criminal privatisation, 750 thousand people were out of work. Well, what country in Europe today can handle, let alone Serbia, rising from the ashes? As of 2014, Serbia is beginning to rise, Serbia is beginning to consolidate the situation, both in the economy, in the economy, in the economy, in the finance, in the social sector, etc. A kind of stability is being established in all possible fields of life for citizens and citizens of Serbia finally see that the legal order has achieved that, that is, the legal order has reached the level that it must have, which is that the rule of law works and that the rule of law is being felt by citizens. And what is very important, and in this way I will end this discussion of everything that we have discussed these two days, is the fact that Serbia will never allow this kind of anomaly again, that we are going back 16 years and that we are discussing something that should have been discussed in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, and so on. It will never happen again, nor can it happen. Because we do not, after all, have the possibility to carry out an adequate analysis of various criminal activities and everything that has led Serbia to what it has led to, with the consequences that I have pointed out today. And yet, what the esteemed colleague Vujic asked as a logical question, and who was responsible for it and where did anyone appear in the procedure, which is why he had to suffer the appropriate sanctions? Because there's no such thing as a presummation of innocence here. This is already done. The work was done here, but for this act done by the perpetrator did not carry any conconsequence. As for the budget we adopted for 2020, the SPS parliamentary group, and I am confident that our coalition partners from the JS, have one single confidence, which is the belief that the only arbitration panel that will be able to assess the validity of the budget that we adopted for 2020 will be citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that only citizens of the Republic of Serbia will give a final word as to whether this budget is realised, to which extent it is realised, and in any case for all that which means responsibility, both individual and collective, will be a responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67138	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we finally have a chance to talk a little longer-term about the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. I am very sorry that the former regime's representatives here are here to defend their leaders, political views and how they spent the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To make things worse, even in these tables that we have received and are available publicly to everyone, I can say that the situation during their government is much worse than these tables show. Usually the nominal amount of public debt is shown here and how much it participates in the gross social product, but I can say that much more money is abused and spent than can be seen from all these tables. I will give only one example, that the participation of public debt in GDP in 2009 was 30.9% and that already in 2010, it was 39.5%, which means that over 8.5% of the public debt has jumped. Someone would say, well, maybe that's what it was supposed to be. However, I must say that in 2009, Gazprom Oil paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget 400m and some million euros, and, in addition to a significant inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget from privatising our oil industry, we have a debt growth of nearly 10%, which only shows that even in those years where they are shown as successful, their success is seen as being sold out of the social property that was the subject of privatisation and instead of the funds being used for public works, the development of infrastructure, the creation of economic preconditions for Serbia's development was spent on public spending to obtain cheap political points or to disappear. One of the distinguished colleagues said – why didn't the SNS come up with data on how privatisation was conducted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Can I say, what data do we go out with? If your initial price of the subject matter is privatisation, the subject, call whatever you want, 20% of the accounting value of the subject or the subject of privatisation, and the book value is often 20 times less than the market value, what are the conditions and what is the initial price? This is, then, the starting price that's about 40 times smaller than it's supposed to be. Thus, the economy of the Republic of Serbia was sold out, made to be cheap and that the same property, later and private property, was sold out as property for building residential buildings, business space. See what's left of "IKL" here, so I don't list further for various other financial transactions, or for the matter to be even worse, to display the false value of the assets in order to get loans from state-owned banks. We've had bank affairs, such as the Agrobank affair. All of this was later reflected in the budget and wanted to talk about how there was a rise in the public debt that had to be stopped in 2014 by unpopular, difficult austerity measures, or how some like to say something that they think will then be intelligent here in the Assembly, the measures of fiscal consolidation. In addition to this example, which is most visible when it comes to how we have available state resources in the period 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, related to the privatisation of NIS, it can be seen that public debt is growing in both nominal and percentage terms. In 2010, 39.5%, in 2011, 42.8% and they say, somewhere at the time they lost power, about 49% in 2012. When we tell them that the state of public debt until 2015 when it was at its peak and in 2016 is the result of their irresponsible policy, they attack us as we tasked the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is what it looks like, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia alone in 2012, meaning, for loans with which Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have no responsibility, only interest was paid 93 billion and 700 million or about 800m euros or 2.8% of GDP. Now watch out, that amount of 93 billion and 700 million dinars has been earned not from the real revenues that the budget has, but by raising new loans. So we had a 17 billion dinar recapitalisation in 2012 which increased the public debt of the Republic of Serbia by another 110 billion dinars or about 3.5% of GDP. So, no single move has been made since the government, in which the SNS, Alexander Vukic, participated, could not have done it. The budget was still in charge of 3.5 per cent of GDP at the time of the government's takeover. Why do I say this -- when it comes to bank capitalization. Banks' capitalisation is linked to two banks, Agrobanka and Vojvodina Development Banka, which placed loans that were non-refundable and thus led to certain bankruptcy proceedings. Pity, except for these 17 billion dinars, is the one that had to be paid off by the Deposit Insurance Agency. These are the agencies, the evil ones we don't need, right, and yet the funds paid by the Deposit Insurance Agency are the funds collected by the liquidation and bankruptcy of the social banks that were closed or taken away from them in 2003. The funds had to be defined for the payment of the debt to the London and Paris Club and the payment of the old foreign savings. So we had to budget to pay off those old obligations to re-indebt and create a certain deficit. In 2013, watch out, no single dinar has yet been paid off because you have no income, regular income that has a budget that you can pay off the principals. Only on behalf of interest is 89 billion dinars or 2.8% again. Why is the interest rate now a little higher, or interest rate? Because we have to pay off that 93 billion debt from 2012. Only on interest on loans until 2012 and loans raised to pay only interest on those loans by 2012 do you have 110 billion interest payments or over 3% of GDP in 2014. When the state comes into a situation that only for interest, it has to raise new loans, or it has to sell out its assets or print money or carry out austerity measures. Now, when they attack Alexander Vukic for these austerity measures, I have to remind them, the austerity measures started in November 2014 and it's true that reducing pensions is the last thing they would do to stabilize the state. But none of the fellow MPs will say who attacked those measures, what happened in 2014. Is Alexander Vukic responsible for the floods that damaged about a billion dinars, calling for rain? (Vojislav Seselj: a billion dinars or a billion euros? () About a billion euros, I apologize, about a billion euros. Not to say that the economy of the Republic of Serbia was largely incompetent for any production activity for the next three months, that it took the electricity industry almost a year to start its production capacities. Now you're saying someone's been kidnapped. What are the main measures of fiscal consolidation? The fiscal consolidation measures are not in themselves sufficient, and they are not in themselves a goal. The fiscal consolidation measures, the government that led and Aleksandar Vukic, implemented to give time to start their activities, increase the volume of investments, increase the production volume and thus create conditions for the loans we have with which we have nothing at all to do finally to pay off. That was the objective of the fiscal consolidation measure. In doing so, it was necessary to find that measure or environment, that when you carry out fiscal consolidation and that healthy part of the economy you do not introduce into recession, by reducing domestic consumption. I think we've found a certain one, too, over time, a successful environment, as much as we can reduce public spending so as not to endanger the economy. Then here it appears, as some fellow MPs say, the evil monetary fund, which determines what we're going to do. I can tell you that the Republic of Serbia has at no time lost its fiscal independence and independence. We needed measures, namely the presence of the IMF, not to be told what to do, we didn't need those 1.5 billion euros, which were paid to a special account at the National Bank, as a precautionary asset, no single cent was used. We needed the IMF to assess the results as a relevant international financial institution, a policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia, on stabilising public finances. Why? We needed it the most because of the former regime, because in all possible ways they will show that it is all unsuccessful and thus that those results that are visible and tangible try to challenge potential investors, whether domestic or foreign, will drive them out of the Republic of Serbia. So when you often criticize that IMF, you have to consider that. In 2012, these invited the IMF to the Republic of Serbia, the Fiscal Council kept quiet, didn't even advertise, when they looked at our public finances and told them they couldn't give positive reviews, Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, Sutanovac and everyone else answered – we don't need you with your results, and if it gets out about our results, it will be bad in the 2012 elections. This is what it looked like by 2012 and all the consequences of the Republic of Serbia due to the conduct of an irresponsible policy, I say is not only about the billions of euros they owed us, but also about billions of euros that resulted in the sale of social capital, which they spent, no one knows in what way, with what effects and with what purpose. Another thing that appears here is that in 2013, the guaranteed debt of the Republic of Serbia, and above all for the reconciliation of the obligations of "Serbiagas", "Gallenike", is that I do not count further, from 928m to 2 billion and 800m euros. Now, how is it that today when the price of gas hasn't changed at all, it's even cheaper than by 2012, how is it now that the business of "Srbigas" is better and more favourable and notes the reduction of debt than it was until 2012? Because the dominoes remembered one bad thing again. "Srbigas" delivered gas to heats across the Republic of Serbia, heat was delivered to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who again paid for heat, or paid for heat, and no single dinar was directed to pay for "Serbigas", which was also blackmailed, that if it halted the supply of gas to those heats, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or that city or that municipality or that territory would leave without heating. Thus, the debt of local self-government towards "Serbiagas" was accumulated, and yet the Republic of Serbia had to make those commitments to "Serbia" cover from the period. They stole at every level, in the Republic, in the province, in the local. They've been stealing on another level, I can't say it's the level of government, it's enterprises in restructuring. You know, these are the companies that they robbed when they were privatized by their friends, so they brought them back to the state, broke the privatisation contract, but they brought those companies back under the burden, or mortgages of business banks, and I'm not counting any further. Since these companies were in restructuring, they were subsidized until 2012 by the state, without any plan or programme. You know what was as a result? Workers didn't even come to work, they received the most frequent minimum earnings, but the directors of the restructuring company received salaries that science fiction in the Republic of Serbia, at five, six, seven, and even ten thousand euros and had one hobby. Several times a year, they met and competed to buy a better car from the financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget by the next meeting. Now you can imagine that they had a car park better than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but even better rolling stock had, I mean, even from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. We've had such directors who've had dosmania here and then we get to that famous UPPR, the pre-prepared reorganisation plan, and again the Republic of Serbia, so that these unfortunate people don't lose their jobs, even for that minimum wage, until we can see how and what we're going to do with them, we're going to have to guarantee, even to capitalise or buy out the debts of the enterprises in restructuring. When someone mentions bankruptcy, it's very easy, but when you need hundreds of workers to leave without a job, and with the care and guilt of the state, we bring their company into such a situation, bankruptcy is not the smartest and most honest solution. We had this situation in the Republic of Serbia until 2012. That's how the Republic of Serbia was led, so it was in debt, and that's why we had a growth in public debt that at one point stood at as much as 70% compared to GDP. Since 2015, the Republic of Serbia has no longer been in charge of covering current consumption, because the measures implemented by Aleksandar Vucic have resulted in current consumption being able to finance from current revenues and to increase from these current incomes salaries to public sector employees, above all I mean the police, the military, the health care system, the education protection system, eventually the state administration, and they work fairly, in most cases work for the Republic of Serbia, but we can increase pensions, with us not having to sell property, so we don't have to raise new loans to do so. Today, we are raising loans only to either repay old or finance the construction of infrastructure that is needed again in some period to improve the economic climate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thus increasing employment among citizens of the Republic of Serbia and increasing the standard of living for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't exactly by law and by the Constitution that the final accounts in 2004 were not discussed for 2003, 2005 for 2004, but... (National Ambassador Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. )......................................................................................................... Someone's bored. (Vojislav Seselj: It's not boring, it's monotonous. )......................................................................................................... Monoton, that's the same thing. (Vojislav Seselj: It is not the same. It's not, so good. But I must say that it was only 2015 that the DRI was asked to start a revision of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia for the budgets of those years, that it was recently completed, and now we have all the final accounts that are missing, but one thing in this whole story is very good. You can see exactly the difference between what the former regime was, what public finances we had until 2012 and what we have today. As the Republic of Serbia was led by 2012 the school is to every honest current and future government, that state should not be led and a reminder to citizens never to trust them to run the state again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67140	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67141	So the question now arises – how can a National Assembly meeting discuss final accounts from 15 years ago and on what basis have we now reached these final accounts? So it's every government's obligation to file a final bill for the previous year, so you just know where the money was spent. We've always warned that, every time, in every budget debate, the MPs of the SRS talked about it. You've completely ignored it. It only changed when the National Convention for Co-operation of Serbia and the EU brought objections to the work of the Serbian Parliament. And then you stopped calling for an emergency procedure, and you stopped putting together various points of the agenda, and of course also one warning that came from these NGOs is whether the budget needs to be adopted earlier, and you achieved the same thing this year, so before December 1st, and then also for the final account. So it's pointless to discuss final accounts from 10 years ago, especially when they're made by some projections based on certain monthly reports, which will say they're completely unreliable. But what we see in each budget, not exactly since 2003, but since 2006, is one huge amount of funds allocated to subsidies. The subsidy was introduced into Serbia by Mladjan Dinkic as early as 2006. He was constantly in power as a promotional finance minister in 2014 just stopped being in the government. Therefore, paying by job to foreign investors 10, 15 and more thousands of euros per job from Serbia's budget, and they then use the money to pay salaries in Serbia. So, the budget pays the salaries of foreign companies. Based on these 10 or 15 thousand euros or more, a worker can receive a 250-euro salary for several years. What else happens after that? It happens that when that subsidisation period expires, i.e. When these subsidies are spent, the foreign investor immediately comes to negotiations in the government to renew the programme. That's what we've had for years with the Fiat. How much state property is in the Fiat? Less than 5%. How much money is paid out of the "Fiat" budget each year? They're always being blackmailed towards Serbia, if you're not going to pay for it, we're going to say goodbye to these workers, so these 5,000 workers, you get them a job somewhere. Such messages were sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia by the management of the "Fiyat". So, every year since 2006, nearly a billion euros has been given by the state of Serbia for these subsidies. Is there a justification for these investments in Serbia? Do we know based on some study, based on some analysis, what exactly did we get from this subsidy program? Especially since we have cases that when a foreign investor comes here, hires 200 people, we give him 15 000 euros per job, and after a year his production is less and he has less than 200 employees. Where is the guarantee that people employed in these foreign companies, which are subsidized from a budget of 15,000 euros per job, will be employed there? Especially with this Labour Act, where a relative employer can be freed in no time. But never mind, it's a policy that brings you results, i.e. It brings you the IMF and the World Bank to commend you. It is not true what we just heard, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia independently makes those decisions, and that there are the IMF and the World Bank only as advisers. So that's an absolute lie. Since 2000, for all financing in Serbia, Serbia is absolutely asked about the IMF and the World Bank, and this shows us that its exhibits, the IMF's exhibits were repeatedly engaged in the government of the Republic of Serbia from October 5th to the day today, and Miroljub Labus, and Vlahovic, and Djelic, and Dusan Vujovic, and Lazar Krstic, and Mladjan Dinkic. So both Democrats and advances, all used the same policy, and that was to meet all the IMF requirements that absolutely do not care about the lives of Serbian citizens if Serbia serves its debts in time. It is only aimed at paying the debts as soon as possible, and how much electricity will be paid, how much wages in Serbia, pensions, etc., it is irrelevant for the IMF, and you have accepted the same thing, so your experts Lazar Krstic, Sasa Radulović, Mladjan Dinkic and Dusan Vujovic were simply ahead of the IMF in the government of the Republic of Serbia and controlled finance and controlled the interests of the IMF. It's not hiding anything. So, what do we get from giving subsidies to strangers? We first get discrimination against domestic businessmen, because as much as the law is a general act in reality, the party gets that money, not domestic businessmen and domestic businessmen simply can't be competitive in our country, because of foreigners. What's the stranger's interest here? He is interested in coming here, picking up 15,000 euros per job, getting land for free, getting all the permits free of charge and by accelerated procedure and the Serbian government pays those workers, and they are formally employed at 240 or 250 euros. And they're always being blackmailed -- here, I'm sorry, if you don't want to work, you don't have to work, you don't work here anymore. Your rights absolutely no one respects, so the rights of workers in Serbia. We've had several statements by Mr. Vukic, visiting certain countries saying that it attracts companies from these countries to come here because we have the best conditions and find me this country that has better conditions, we'll beat you and fix our conditions, we have better conditions than those countries you're talking about. What's the competition about all this? The competition is between Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, Moldova, Hungary, which will give more jobs to attract investors. What do we get with that? We get that we spend huge money bringing in strangers, and we don't have any long-term results. Where's our cost-effectiveness from that? Where's Macedonia? Where's Moldova? Well, if that were good, that system, the subsidy system, I guess the Western states, which support it in Serbia, applied it in their countries, wouldn't advertise something that they don't do themselves. That Dusan Vujovic, former prime minister of finance, your former colleague, Mr. Djordjevic, is now engaged as an expert of the World Bank in fixing the situation in Ukraine, so now he has moved on to deal with the country, he said that with this model of subsidy, large subsidies to foreign investment and the economy that is based on it, we can reach the standard of the most developed EU countries in 250 years, as long as they are groped in place. So that's what the former Prime Minister of Finance says. There's no reason why we shouldn't trust him, because this is the majority that voted for him. So, I guess that's something that needs to make us conscious, which should show us that actually this may not be the best way to succeed, but we are satisfied with the fact that with our 4% growth, which is 1.6 billion euros in GDP, is greater than the German growth of GDP of 1%, which is close to 50 billion euros. That's enough information for us. We say, then, Mrs Brnabic and Mr Vukic and Sinisa Mali say -- Serbia has the biggest growth in Europe, Serbia has bigger growth than Germany. Well, is that possible? What we can only offer on that market for Western countries is cheap labour and we don't even hide it. In 2014, the SNS government paid for advertising, recorded a commercial broadcast several months at CNN, in which Serbia is advertised, urging foreign investors to come to Serbia, as Serbia is a highly educated and cheap workforce. So that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia paid to advertise on CNN. Then what are we talking about? We, instead of changing this subsidy programme, to reduce the funding of NGOs, especially those who later act against Serbia, which is being organised by Mirdita in the middle of Belgrade, so the promotion of Kosovo culture, this is all being financed from Serbia's budget, the advances are supporting it, there was also the former Minister Tasovac, the Progressive Minister, and the current city councilman, to stop funding women in black, to stop funding human rights houses, to stop funding the Open Society Fund of the Helsinki Committee, Jukom and all others, we thought in 2014 that we should take money from pensioners and cut salaries. Despite Alexander Vukic's 2014 promises that no one should touch pensioners, that he would not cut pensions, that he guaranteed it, and that it would be better to take it from our backs, thinking of some politicians probably in Serbia, rather than touching pensioners, over three months, pensions were cut and that money was still not returned and not known what would happen. So we make savings on employees and on pensioners instead of on subsidies, on funding NGOs and on reducing the administration. Despite SNS' pre-election promises, the majority of this has not been met, primarily by the reduction of bureaucracy, the establishment of a fast-track office that was meant to replace much bureaucracy in Serbia and speed up various procedures. It remained a dead letter on paper, although the SNS has been in power for seven years. Why are we even talking about the final account today? Not because there is a sense of responsibility and it is normal in Serbia to do so, but because in Serbia there were several months of former and current MEPs who kept the main word in Serbia and whose demands were always met. We were saying that the Rules of Procedure should be changed, that it should be done differently in the National Assembly, and you didn't do anything until the requests from abroad arrived. So they came to dictate from abroad that we have here now and the final bill and the budget earlier and the split agenda and everything else. It's not commendable to brag about how you're bringing in final accounts now, it's supposed to be a normal thing. It's supposed to be a thing that's regular every year, not now because you're something you deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67142	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Right on line, Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. (Vojislav Seselj: Well, you've become an expert. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67143	I am an expert, when someone says five thousand euros per job first, and then ten thousand euros per job, so with each next discussion, it increases by some thousand euros, and now we have reached 15,000 euros. (Vojislav Seselj: Ten was safe. Ten was safe? Okay. Like this, just one clean as a sample. When you talk about euro amounts, etc., you must know that, for example, subsidies to the economy in 2014 amounted to 16 billion and 812 million. Now, why don't you take your sums that you promise foreign investors, we didn't promise them, see how many jobs they are, and they're not the only subsidies in the economy. Here, only during this year has domestic economy been subsidized for over 10 billion dinars, and out of which three billion dinars were grants to the domestic economy. And you should know, 37,000 domestic companies opened in 2018. So, don't represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia like that, that we work for strangers. No, we work for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like you to find a model, besides criticising, to find a model of how to increase the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, and not to be without subsidies to the same economy, whether it's domestic or foreign. Just find me a model and I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67144	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has Alexander Seselj, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67145	Great, if you've come up with that information, it's best if you expose us now and to a coma and how much money you've given us. So, you only know about the total number, who and how much money you've given, and is he really that busy in Serbia? Let those statistics go that anyone who works an hour a month is actually busy. These are all employees you talk about employment, etc., but in Finland, Sweden, Germany, France, etc. What country developed according to the IMF dictatorship? It's not one. Here, look, both Moldova and Macedonia and Albania and all those countries. Look what the IMF did in Latin America. Where did some country develop with the help of the IMF? You all, ladies and gentlemen, you know that only capital could have come from stealing, kidnapping, fraud and bloody exploitation of the workforce, and that's how every capital in the world came into existence. So, in an extremely unfair way. It's easy after the original accumulation is over, so the capital fertilizes itself, then enters the financial sector, the banks can fertilize it without production. But how are you acting? You act like these investors from abroad are the most honest, as if they have come to capital in a fair way. They're not and they're not going to fertilize him here in a fair way, they're going to suck our soul out. On the other hand, you're making the law to get out of the country and this rich man that he has. Under Dosmanli rule, there was a common kidnapper, everything was robbed, little of what was left. I agree there's a lot of bank safes and bills in those tax havens on those exotic islands, but you can't prove any of those tycoons crime. Here, you couldn't do it to Miskovic, but it all ended. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. What's it got to do? You can't kidnap people now because they're rich, but you have to prove to them exactly where they are, when and how they stole them. I would introduce a major action to legalise the money of Serbian citizens, so to determine one bank where 100% of the state capital is, it is the Post Office, I think it has 100% of the state's money and to say, whoever pays any amount of money in the "Postal Savings" will not be questioned in origin, but is denied a 5% tax of the total value of the money and is free of the rest of the money to be available. So we charge them all, with a 5% tax, at least something for the benefit of the state, and then we motivate them to invest here, to feel safe, otherwise they can't, and to strangers you can, they're going to choose more and more, the more you offer them, they're going to ask for more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67146	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67147	First, Miroslav Miskovic was convicted of tax evasion and it was a judicial decision, so as far as we're concerned, that's where we put the point. The second thing, 13 billion and 524 million dinars are subsidies, or to translate a little over 105 or 110 million euros, and here we talk about some billions, euros, dollars, whatever. So there's no first. The second thing, this model that the esteemed colleague Seselj suggested, may have been able to succeed in the Russian Federation, because it also has a way for those who do not accept it to reach them in a certain way and punish them wherever they are in the world. That's not the case here. And one more thing. They've been here too long with thieving and heisting getting rich. They forgot that they were doing anything fair, they would continue the same with a 5% extra profit tax, although I think it was introduced by Vladan Batic, the Law on Extra Profit Tax, we know who paid the only one, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic paid the only tax and Dragan Todorovic. So whoever deals with crime, who deals with speculation, will never work in an honest way. As for Western or foreign investors, we have not only Western, we have investors from China, first of all, we have investors from Russia, we have investors from Western Europe, so I can't give them... their economic interests. Well, he exists. None of us like it, so they'll invest in Serbia. Everyone wants to realize their economic interests. Our economic interest is in a certain way to attract this investor who will hire, not a Martian, but our citizen who will work for some salary and from that salary to support the family. Perhaps four, five years ago, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia of 500 euros was unimaginable, today is reality. Seven, eight or ten years ago, inflation 1%, 2.5% year-on-year, was science fiction, today reality. Seven, eight or ten years ago a stable course of national currency was science fiction, today it's relativity. Well, in this way you can create conditions that even those who, behold, want to give a little more to us, and a little less to earn and they come to Serbia, and as long as you have inflation, as long as you lose the national currency, then you will have thieves and criminals in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67148	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67149	Arsic says these were so stolen, these domestic tycoons of ours forgot what honest work meant. That's not true. They cry out that what they have in some way acquired, unfairly, half-priced, or fair, or like this, or whatever, they invest. We have the case of Saric, who you still have in prison and you can't convict him and you won't be able to, because if he's ever done crime somewhere, he's not in Serbia, he's never been involved in drug trafficking, as far as I'm aware from reliable sources, he's never been involved in any crime, he's come up with a large amount of money, he's brought in Serbia, and he's invested here honestly, and you're chasing him because he's washing. Whose money does he launder? What do we care whose money he launders? Veroljub Arsic: His. Well, mine. But he didn't get them here, he didn't steal them here, he didn't rob them here. Then what do we care what he was doing out there, let him be chased there, and you're here on "here" by some foreign services, agencies, embassies and so on, and now the time will come for you to give him back everything that Tadic robbed him. Remember the TV footage when they were taking his chairs, his TVs out of the house, taking off the chandeliers and everything? He's gonna have to make it up to him because he hasn't been proven guilty of any crime. Don't say that! That's smart. People are neither good nor evil in nature, and anyone may be tempted to grab something if it comes to his hand. They're rare fanatics who will never catch anything, like me. They're rare, there's more. There may be one, two, and in your ranks, you know, they're not here in the O.R. I was joking. Don't let this controversy go wrong now. So it's essential that that money goes back to Serbia and invests here, to turn here. Why is it important to break this import mob's spine? To keep those three billion dollars each year just through the banks and the mail of our workers from abroad, not immediately suck it up and take it where it came from.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67150	Thank you, Professor Seselj. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Right on the line. Comrade Arsic, come in. (Vojislav Seselj): Think well of what you will say. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67151	Let's see. Prevention of money laundering, the Charic case. Let the judicial authorities deal with it. (Vojislav Seselj: They have been in the business for a hundred years. ) To the justice of the verdict, which may, I say, without any influence on the judicial authorities, be liberating, we have to stick to international regulations that are related to preventing money laundering, and yet, as much money as it is, drug smuggling is in my opinion something unimaginable that I could... (Vojislav Seselj: Where is this proven? As soon as there's a lot of money... I don't want to do this right now. Let the courts deal with it. If they prove he's a drug dealer, he can't do it exactly as we imagined. (Vojislav Seselj: He had no proof. If he proves it, I won't go any further. The procedure is under way. But let me tell you, if we didn't follow laws that would prevent money laundering, you know what would happen to Serbia? We'd lose SWIFT. So SWIFT is a model for you to make payments abroad. If we lost our international code with abroad, and there have already been attempts, precisely because of what Aleksandar Vukic is doing to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, there have been attempts to declare Serbia an insecure country. Remember, a year and a half ago, two days ago, we even fell on that scale of safe investment countries, so now we're law-abiding to get that place back. So we can't do money laundering. Some other countries can do that. I can get some others, even the West. They're so powerful no one can touch them. I don't want to mention them, but I'm telling you they're getting the money. In a statement that money was not obtained by illegal trafficking in arms, drugs, white slaves, and would not be used to fund terrorism, only this statement was signed by Western countries and money deposited. Why don't they bring him back, now he's already laundered the money, into the Republic of Serbia? No, they're used to it. They're used to, with relatively modest work, speculation... Well, we're talking... Imagine what it looks like only by foreign exchange transactions, that the national currency has lost 10%, 12%? When someone says - I know, it's not much, and in the game of large numbers, it was billions of euros. Billions of euros are gone in two minutes and I can't explain it, but one punk is... (Vojislav Seselj: I will now be with you in a minute and a half.) Here, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67152	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67153	I went from Saric's case on purpose, because Saric invested in real estate and in production. Right? He was opening the drives. Right? Did he pick it up all over the place? Did he also donate sports clubs and charity gifts, etc? You suspect him of drug trafficking, and there's no evidence? People, come on, Zoran Djindjic was a drug dealer. He gave a warrant to sell 700 kilos of heroin from the Commercial Bank in the vault. At least that's proven. There's a statement from the Legion that Djindjic issued the warrant. Don't be such a prude. We're going to close our eyes here among these criminals who are proven, and here we're going to suspect, and there's no evidence. Second, what do you do with these foreign pressures? The Americans forced you to put me on the terrorist list. I can't open a foreign exchange account in almost no bank. I can't open it because I'm on the terrorist list. When I look at the American blacklist, they're taking me there to be charged with the UN tribunal. So no one has informed them that the process is over, or that I did what I was sentenced to, nothing else, and you're behind it? Try a little differently. Look, they can't seduce us like they did at the time of Milosevic, so we can't pay anybody anything. When we buy the goods that are necessary, we pay if the state imports. If they're importing privates, they're not subject to these restrictions, and we can do that, because that only applies to our citizens. A Serbian citizen can legalise money that has not been in circulation until now, which he kept out there, who knows where and is given that option, with a 5% tax. It can be done, it just needs good will, and you're sharpening to take away. How much can these people get hit by 10, 15, 20, so you get tired and you don't? What are you going to do with that? You'll see that's not the way. It is taken away from him who is proven guilty and that the money has been obtained through the conduct of the crime. Don't touch the rest. You have to prove someone guilty, not him himself to prove innocence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67154	Thank you, Professor. A seam.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67155	Just one more sentence. You're referring to this lie detector. No man who holds on to his dignity will agree to go to a lie detector. What does he prove? Nothing. No man of dignity will go. What would you go for? The police have to prove that he's guilty, not that he proves he's right. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67156	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67157	Here we go, fellow Seselj. First of all, as far as the Saric case is concerned, there is no international warrant for Saric during the SNS government, to clear this up immediately. It was scheduled during the former regime. Saric hid for many years and surrendered when SNS and Aleksandar Vukic took responsibility for the Republic of Serbia. I gave myself up, I guess, believing in the justice system that he has in Serbia, that he would be tried in accordance with the laws of this country. I don't want to interfere with court judgments. When it's decided, whatever the prosecutor proves, what he doesn't prove, the court will measure. Neither you nor I will measure it, at least we shouldn't. I owe you one for these others. A thug named Miroslav Miskovic has been vacuuming Serbia's entire business into his company for years. If you deliver the goods to him, whether you are an importer, whether you are an exporter, whether you are a domestic producer, if you deliver the goods to him, be sure they will not be paid for at least a year. What was he doing with that money because the goods were clearly sold? He was trading on the financial market. How? By having his daughters abroad. Among others, he had in Bulgaria, he had in Cyprus, he had in Malta. I don't know where he had companies either. The company's daughter delivers a transaction for importing goods and services, for example, works, 100m euros. It ends at a business bank. The Serbian foreign exchange market is shallow today. Fifty million make a mess, and imagine 2008, 2009 and 2010? So there's a sudden jump in the euro, with him buying the euro at the rate he submitted the request. He's taking money out of the country, so-called. IRS. They changed the Foreign Exchange Act that they never had to import goods and services here in Serbia, and then gradually in smaller amounts they returned the economy, which is in charge of the euro, and even when they paid him a church, those hundred dinars are no longer 100 euros, but 80 euros, to keep him rich in speculation, price differences, credit and insurance jobs. That's how he made a fortune. That's how he gets 25 years. That's never gonna change.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67158	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67159	Miskovic was a child of the socialist regime. We, when we were in the Serbian government, even had a conflict with him, because Minister of Trade Zoran Krasic tried to push some things out into the clearing around some of his warehouses. Veroljub Arsic: Cigars. Around some warehouses, various goods were there, luxurious. Mostly expensive goods. This failed to end, because the Socialists also lured Mirko Marjanovic to nearly kill sugar, but he was in full swing under the Dosmanli regime and everything he had achieved, mainly by bribing state officials, both Tadic and many others, including your first president, Tomislav Nikolic. Including him. When you arrested Miskovic, he tried to intervene to let Miskovic go. The wolf didn't give in. Afterwards, I made a joke about him arresting him because he didn't give him anything, and he really didn't give him anything. He gave Tomislav Nikolic big money, millions of dollars. Now that you've arrested Miroslav Miskovic, you've had to arrest the order of state officials he's corrupting. You didn't arrest any of them, but you and his son now prove that he's a criminal, and he couldn't do any of what you attribute to him without state aid, and none of the government officials were killed for it. Now, that's the point. As soon as you arrested him, I came out with the idea of offering him a deal -- to just tell which one of the state officials he was giving money to and for whatever it was that he was freed from, and that these fines were. Because it's much more dangerous than the state officials who are corrupt than the businessmen and tycoons who corrupt them. Now, you didn't do that. Now you're struggling. Yes, he did, but these are little things for what you thought you could convict him. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. He can't. And if you had gone deep, then both Tadic and Labus and Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic and Aleksandar Vlahovic and many others would have been in prison. You shouldn't have done that, and they're still unpunished. Well, why don't you go after Miroljub Labus and Dinkic for all the national gold they stole?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67160	Thank you, Professor. A seam. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67161	Mr. Seselj, all they did was mostly when it came to guilt, it was already before the relative term of limitations. (Vojislav Seselj: It is not yet absolute, it is 20 years old. ) If they didn’t start in time, the relative time limit is valid, you know it just as well as I do. Miskovic was convicted of what he was suspected of, which is tax evasion. You know for a fact that far bigger criminals than Miskovic have fallen into tax evasion, because they are somehow the most, they love to steal so much that they have little to steal from five million or 50 million euros, so they have to pay a tax of 500,000. No, they'll be looking to pay 5,000. That's what they're like, that's their nature, that's what they're taught, that's what they're all about, that's what they're all about, that's what they're taught, I remember that same Miskovic when he threatened Mirko Cvetkovic to close his companies if he had to pay the value added tax. That was in 2008. But I also remember when the National Assembly passed laws here that amnested all of them for all the crimes they committed. So it was a crime to present foreign exchanges and falsify documents and make fictitious contracts, we're changing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act and we say – you can do whatever you want because it's the rule of the World Trade Organisation. (Vojislav Seselj: Here, it is not too late to condemn Mladjan Dinkic for breaking in with automatic rifles. But I still don't get one answer. Besides that model, those who are used to speculating, stealing, so you mentioned yourself at one point that Serbia must export. Will it export to the east, to the west, anywhere, in any part of the world, tell me, of these bastards, which of them is able to start a serious job that can seriously contribute to the recovery of the Republic of Serbia and increase the exports of the Republic of Serbia? Here, I'm telling you, none.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67162	Thank you, colleague Arsic. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. Professor Seselj, I'd like to finish this cycle of replicas, if I may ask you, because we're back to the beginning of the two-thousands. (Vojislav Seselj: Very short, Arsic started with me once. It's a constructive debate. I'm fine with listening, too. It's a great debate. (Vojislav Seselj: One minute.) Let's go one more time you, he eventually, and get it over with. Here you go. I can't go on forever, Professor, understand me. I can't give replicas forever. (Vojislav Seselj: This is not forever. I get tired fast. I don't doubt you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67163	Look, at a time when the greatest crimes were committed, the absolute date of limitations was 20 years. For an incursion with automatic rifles at the National Bank of Yugoslavia in 2000, the absolute ageing period is 20 years, it said in October of next year. If you don't arrest and prosecute Mladjan Dinkic by then, no one can process him anymore. The absolute age for the robbery of gold from the National Bank by Dinkic and Labus is also 20 years old, as the country's economic power is threatened. It's a serious crime. If you don't process them by October and they're out of time and a lot of other crimes. These abductions of children, the abduction of Miskovic, Baja Blue, the abduction of the son of beautiful Brena and Boba Zivojinovic. There's the same limitation period for 20 years and no one's being prosecuted. One, Chado stole the grain from his foreign exchange reserve, took his wife's company there from foreign exchange reserves a huge amount of wheat in Subotica and sold and no one prosecuted him. Now he's domesticated to you, and now he's yours, he's just saying, go ahead. Veroljub Arsic: Who? ) Ceda Jovanovic. Who? You know that, Arsic. Don't. You know that better than I do. So all that can be exorcised, but it needs good will. Why don't you have it? You promised. (Alexander Martinovic: What economic model? You said you'd explain. ) Here's the economic model, all the economic financial experts, when this budget project came out in a public debate, said the weakest point is that there is no projected investment of domestic companies. (Alexander Martinovic: Who said that? ) It was in public, in the paper, in the publicist, read something. (Alexander Martinovic: That's what this Culibrk said. Who? (Alexander Martinovic: This Milan Culibrk. Don't do it. More authors. Don't be so mean. (Alexander Martinovic: I am not evil. Wait, he understands some economic things. I know he deserves every criticism in political terms, but if he knows anything from the economy, then he knows, and Culibrk knows something. I made sure he knew because I read some of his texts. You see now, what kind of domestic investors are they? There are no others but these tycoons who have tycooned and grabbed everything they can. The others are gone, the rest are miserable, small farmers, small craftsmen, caterers, etc., they can't invest much, but they should be gradually released, reduced their taxes in order to get more and more...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67165	But those who took it with their hats and hands and took it away should now be included in investing here in Serbia by taxing 5% of it all and then letting them do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67166	Thank you, Professor Seselj. The minute took a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67167	Is Arsic finished, too?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67168	There's Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67169	I'm not so sure. Here, this model that predicts that criminals being the ones leading the Serbian economy can succeed, and one reason is not that they would not pay 5%, they would not pay a single percent. They're like humans. That's who they are. They'll find other ways, other countries, other weak systems to steal through. They're criminals. Tell me, what is their action? All the trange-frangs. See, Delta Company mainly dealt with the trade and construction of shopping centres that once again served its retail facilities and privatization and sale of real estate. Did he do something serious, run some serious industrial production? Here's Kostic what he was doing. He bought three sugars for three euros, mortgaged them... (Vojislav Seselj: For one euro each. ) Here, for one euro, put them under mortgage, mortgaged them back to the state, broke the privatisation contract, right? Then, with the money he borrowed from the loan he speculated with sugar between the countries, I know Latin America and the EU, he lifted our levies. You think he's gonna do this seriously, honestly? I doubt it. Here's the only one I know who legalized his business, it's Peconi. For these others, they had a chance, they still have, but believe me, they just want to kidnap, destroy anything they can get just to get as much money as possible. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67170	Thank you. I'd close the circle of replicas. Here you go, and we'll end the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67171	I have to remind Veroljub Arsic that all capitalists by definition are immoral, thieves, kidnappers, robbers and bloody labour abusers. In principle, they're all like that, so we're looking for exceptions. As Rockefeller was, he was, so he made a fortune. And after they filled all their warehouses, when they filled the money, then they started acting like humanitarians. Then they split up a little bit, and then they give for humanitarian aid, for the Red Cross, for this, for that. That's how everyone behaves. Look, every man whose only purpose in life is to make money has that moral phallic. At times, people who read books were appreciated in our society. Only intellectuals, ambassadors, professors, etc. came to the Library Club. And then, in the '90s, the ones with chains, with the kalams, came and began to lead. I don't know what it's like now. I haven't been around in a while. I'm not a bar man. I still have so many life plans, as far as writing goes, I don't have time for a bar. It doesn't matter. You need a man who likes to blow it off sometimes. So don’t expect them to be honest and human. And these sides are much worse than ours, so keep that in mind, because even when they come here and they invest these from Western European countries, they hate us, they rarely like us. They hate us and look at us as much as possible, to take our souls, and at least we know these locals and we know their weak spots. And if he's going to invest and make money and make a profit and pay the workers, he's welcome, if he doesn't do it, he's going to fall fast. But your problem is there's a lot of people you don't pay taxes to right now. Here's the paper the other day, the taxpayers' taxes came out of ten million euros. There was a newspaper on the front page the other day. Put some pressure on them, to see that no one is deprived of the obligation to pay taxes. Me for three guns a year, 60,000 dinars, and they owe ten million each.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67172	We're closing a circle of replicas. Thank you, Professor Seselj. Thank you, Veroljub Arsic. Let's move on. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67173	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been an interesting debate so far. I am sorry that some MPs, mostly former parties, are not party to the former regime, because they were actors of this atmosphere that were just spoken of by both Mr Arsic and Mr Seselj. By the way, today is the 352nd day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work in order to receive wages and thus show their relationship to the topic we are talking about, according to the function they perform, towards the National Assembly and also to the citizens of Serbia. And the relationship to the subject that we are talking about today, according to the draft law on final accounts from 2002 to 2018, has best shown right in the years of government in Serbia, which is the year of Serbia's economic downturn, robbery privatisation, the economic downturn of Serbia, the closure of factories, the closure of businesses, the dismissal of hundreds of thousands of workers and the collapse of the system's institutions. Of course they're not here in the National Assembly today, to avoid taking responsibility for the destructive policy they've been leading. Because it is easier, the chairman, to declare a boycott and come occasionally to the National Assembly, only to hold a press conference at the National Assembly. In the policy of replacing the thesis, the policy of manipulation of facts, the policy of avoiding response is preceded by Djilas's chief runner, Bosko Obradovic. He's the president of that fake Patriotic Dvora movement, although lately his main competition is the marines with an unconfirmed last name. Then the two of them are invariably holding press conferences here at the National Assembly Hall, repeating the same, long-convinced stories, exhausted stories, recycled texts from that magazine, "Tabloid" on alleged government affairs in Serbia. It doesn't matter what's been denied countless times already, and it doesn't matter what the Anti-Corruption Agency did a few days ago, it clearly denied it and said it was not true. So, here, the Anti-Corruption Agency says – Stefanovic is not in a conflict of interest, the Anti-Corruption Agency said. The Agency has established that Branko Stefanovic since the establishment of GIN d.o.o. Belgrade is not the owner, nor the legal representative, nor was GIN employed or engaged on any basis. It was also established that Branko Stefanovic was not even an insurance company insurance company of GIN. It doesn't matter what Milovan Brkic himself has on several occasions, the one Milovan Brkic from "Tabloid" has repeatedly admitted that representatives of that part of the opposition are using exactly his texts in this brutal campaign led against both Nebojja Stefanovic and against other MUP officials and against Aleksandr Vukic, who are their daily target and against all others from the SNS. They continue to spin around in a circle of the same story, the same structure, hoping that a hundred times a repeated lie will become true. A lack of policy, a lack of programme, a lack of ideas trying to replace the invention of various affairs, the fabrication of various affairs, just to cover up their affairs and just to cover their connection with people who are convicted of crime, among other things, for drug dealing. The chairman, for the very end, given that we have, here, the original verdict is in question, given that we have a non-stop cry for not arresting, why the convicted criminals, etc., are here, in front of me the original judgment of the Supreme Court in Sapac, which Nebojsa Zelenovic was convicted of purposeless spending of the money of the citizens of Šapco five million dinars, so on 15 November 2019, the ruling of the General Court in Šapac is amended, I apologize for reading, but so against the accused Nebojsa Zelenović, Mayor of Capac and one of the leaders of this Alliance for Serbia that I was talking about. So it's not that institutions don't do their jobs, it's not that courts don't do their jobs, it's not that there are no judgments. Here, Nebojsa Zelenovic was sentenced specifically on the basis of a criminal report filed by the DRI for embezzlement, i.e. for the purposeless spending of the money of the citizens of Sapac in the amount of five million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67174	Thank you. The word has Miletic Mihajlović. He's not there. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67175	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we've heard a lot today, a lot of things from history and a lot of good. When we first opened the question of final accounts from the previous period on the Committee on Finance, I myself asked myself why and why these legal proposals should be discussed and why should we adopt them? After the debate and the long thought, I realized the reason. Authorities and ruling furniture are changing. But there is only one, eternal Serbia left. And precisely because of this Serbia and the state continuity, we have to work and think about what happened in the previous period, we have to adopt something that we're not guilty of. When I look from this time distance, and it's good why that question is open. First of all, we opened this issue on the Finance Committee, together with the DRI and then came to some conclusions and saw that since 2008, from the date the DRI was formed and started to carry out its duties and to revise the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia each year, there have been significant changes. That period from 2002 to 2008, something was gray, dark and very black. And all she tells of the previous public debt regime, the level of public debt, about GDP is demystified and open. They saw what they were doing, what they did not do, and how bad they did it. I think this particular debate today should lead to us finally ending an ugly period in our history and continuing to work. By bringing and putting on the agenda of these laws, that's exactly what we're doing, to think about the future. Because what they didn't do, or they did, and they didn't anymore, they saw citizens in the previous period, and we've been demystifying a lot since 2012. I prefer that, unlike them, we do a lot of good four things in the last four days: on Sunday we started work on the Moravia Corridor, yesterday the first plane from the Ships, or from the Kings, took off, today we finished a big and important part of the highway "Milos the Great". That's what he says about us. Talk about what we're thinking, what we're looking for and what we want. Unfortunately, in some previous period, when they did some 10-12km of highway, with all their mandates from 2000 to 2012, when they realized that we were continuing to work, to keep building, to try to stop the progress and development of the Republic of Serbia over a hundred-year oak and to stop the construction of the highway "Milos Veliki". They didn't make it. As they were barren in the previous period, they remain barren even now. Since I know we still have a lot of new topics in today's session, and there are a lot of colleagues who will talk behind me, I'd end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67176	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67177	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, we have before us proposals for a bill on final budget accounts, starting in 2002 and until 2018. This shows that we care about transparency and that the public can see how the economy once moved and now, what was once invested and how money is now being deployed, because there's nothing to hide. In 2002, we stopped living in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and began living in the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. The country has no longer existed since 2006 and since then we have been living in the Republic of Serbia. We haven't left the scene, and we've changed a lot. We no longer know who the Prime Minister was or who the ministers were. The draft budget makes it clear how much progress Serbia has made since 2012, since the SNS was in power. It wasn't easy for us. It must not be forgotten that the previous government has left us with a great burden of debt. Seven billion euros is the amount we pay only for their interest, which were enormously large. We had to work and build and also repay their debts that did not improve the country and the lives of citizens, but therefore many political predecessors became millionaires. Now, after seven years, when the supplies melted, and those who didn't learn to work, they just stole their country and their citizens to return to power and start the wheel of theft again. We won't let that happen. Billions went to various criminal stores, in the pockets of those who were in power until 2012. It must not be forgotten, and we must once put an end to the past and turn to the present and the future. The current situation is next. The budget is back in surplus, fifth year in a row and we continue in the same trend. Credit rating improved and public debt fell to 51% of GDP. The 2020 budget is fully balanced because it is characterised by the social aspect, which is related to increasing living standards. Recoral allocations are for capital investments, which should boost GDP growth. The recognitions come from relevant world institutions that monitor Serbia's progress closely. There is a constant growth on the "Ding Business List" and due to an increase in credit ratings, there is a drop in interest rates. This is linked to the country's higher stability and inflation is below 2%. The dinar's stable. All this shows that the country is safe for its investors. This budget is up-to-date, as well as the pace this government is going to, and that is a commitment to Serbian citizens who deserve a better life. During this time, the following was done -- Serbia's bankruptcy, major direct investment, and an improved economic environment have been prevented. Many loans have been reprogrammed at more favourable interest rates. We made most of the miles of roads, refurbished and built schools, hospitals. Clinical centres have been built, machines bought for better diagnosis of the disease. We built tech parks. We have preserved what is most important - peace and stability in the country. Serbia fully transformed in seven years, from an economy characterised by a stagnation of growth and a high unemployment rate, into a growing economy, with low inflation, a declining public debt and recovery of the labour market. All the reform processes in fiscal and monetary policy raise the attractiveness of our economy for foreign investors. All of this has brought results that we can rightly be proud of. The economic activity throughout the year is marked by intensive growth, with strong investment activity and increased personal consumption of households. Thanks to favourable developments in the real sector, parallel to economic growth, there is also a reduction in unemployment. We all have to work together to make progress that creates the top of the country as fast and bigger as possible, and individual cases that cast a shadow of the country's huge success will certainly punish and will certainly do so in the upcoming elections next year. A responsible policy led by the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the consolidation of public finances and the establishment of economic stability. It can be concluded from everything that Serbia is on a healthy path to further economic growth and development. This is proof that, with effort, work, diligence and energy, the foundation of a normal and decent European state can be established. Success is evident and indisputable, Serbia is increasingly successful on the economic plan, its reputation returns and has more and more friends in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67178	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67179	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, sometimes I'm really sorry when we have to break the lines, the circle of replicas, is fun, and there's something to learn from there. Today, for the first time in 17 years, we are discussing the final accounts of the budget. For the first time in 17 years, the state has accounted for its citizens. We are finally talking about who and how he spent money from the state register from 2002 to 2018. These last 15 days, while I was reading and studying these final accounts, as far as I could, I was surfing the Internet just to remind myself of the conditions that were at the time, what comments were made by experts and those directly involved in spending money from the budget, why the account could not be found at the plenary sessions of the Republika Srpska Assembly. When I saw that all the power was spent then on the adoption of budgets and budget rebalances, it was quite clear that they, not that they didn't want to, they didn't have a chance to collect the quorum then and solve any final budget. At the time, there were many experts who knew very well how to spend money from the budget, but no one, mostly no one knew to explain why. Now for the first time in 17 years, we have the opportunity to get through a completely transparent way, through one process in the Assembly, through a debate at the plenary session of the Serbian Parliament, to know the public that the budget plan has been achieved each of these years. So in 17 years, we have 17 final accounts. I'm not a financial expert, there are financial experts here in the Assembly, but I'm very interested in how much revenue and expenditure were planned, how much revenue and expenditure were actually made, where it was made, and what was spent on, what were the deficits in the government's register, and who was all subsidized and with how much money, how much did the government's debt cost us, what was every public dinar spent on in the last 17 years? With this current responsible procedure, when we have these 17 final accounts, we interrupt a bad practice that lasts almost two decades, so that no one knows where the money from the budget is spent and that, imagine, no one answers. Since 2001, this topic has not been on the agenda, although according to the Law on the Budgetary System, each of the previous Serbian Governments, all these years ago, has been obliged to deliver a final bill to the Assembly for the previous year by July 15th. So far, no one has been responsible for Serbia's state accounts not being adopted since 2002 despite the legal obligation. Imagine a company, imagine a company that works for a year, has income and expenses, spends, buys, products, sells, gets money, spends money, etc. And then the end of the year comes and they don't finish the bill. They drag their hand into some, I don't know, state pocket and they pull out a new amount of money and they push it out next year. This was only picturesque because of some who would understand so much better. However, we must note, but only starting in 2009, the revision of the final accounts of the budget has been regularly working on the DRI, to what it has committed and continues to be bound by the Law on the State Auditing Institution. So, the revision of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget since 2009, has been working on DRI, so 10 of these reports have been published on the DRI website so far. Financial experts agree in the fact that a significant step has been taken towards improving the public finance management system, but that all these years an opportunity, which cannot be compensated, has been missed to show some important information about the implementation of the budget, and to establish responsibility for irregularities and illegality. As of today, when Serbia finally enters a period of sustainability of public finances, the debate on final accounts should be, not only good practice, but also the obligation of these and any future governments. Serbia led by President Aleksandar Vucic and SNS is and must be far more responsible than all those previous authorities and all those politicians who would most like the people to forget what it was like while they were in power. Today, when the state registers are again filled with these yellow politicians gathered around the tycoon, Dragan Gilas would like to return to power again, and that, if possible, without a choice. What they need is an election, they want to challenge conflicts, to cause riots, and to have someone put them back in power in some emergency situation. Bosko Obradovic would be pleased, not with a full mandate, but with full capacity that he could at least take another year's chair. So across the street, because, well, later today they're smarter and today they finally know better than everyone else how to spend money from now full of government registers. Here, yesterday is Dragan Gilas or maybe the day before yesterday, I'm wrong, on Twitter, to announce what he would do in, I don't know, five, six, seven, eight points of what he would do right now and to spend money from the government register. Now he remembers. It won't be possible, the people won't forget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67180	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The word is Marko Parezenović. He's not there. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you are, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67181	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today are on the agenda of the draft law on final budget accounts from 2002 to 2018. I'll try to make some brief recapitulation. Of course, I want to start from 2012 when the SNS took over in the Republic of Serbia. We found a budget that was completely destroyed, completely devastated, completely devastated. We found a situation where there wasn't, not to say, not a bit, but there wasn't much hope that our financial system would recover. We found a situation where factories were closed down, jobs shut down, mostly shut down, lots of jobs, and our employees and our pensioners weren't quite clear about whether they could even receive salaries and pensions. Today, of course, the situation is different. For what? Because in 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic, who was then Prime Minister, was determined to take certain measures that, we were all aware of, were not very popular in the people, but certain measures, the difficult fiscal consolidation measures that had produced results, despite the fact that many did not believe at that time that these measures would even deliver results. Alexander Vukic was then transferred mostly from all sides that these are difficult measures that our citizens will not react well to in terms of the possible decline in his rating or SNS rating, but that only proved that he was capable and wanted to put the interests of the Serbian state ahead of the party's interests and, of course, his own personal interests. Today we have not only the opportunity to pay our salaries and pensions regularly, but we also have the opportunity to talk about increasing wages and pensions. A month ago, maybe two months ago, we were here in the National Assembly discussing budget rebalancing and the positive budget rebalancing. Why the positive? Because that's when we realized that we had extra money in the government register and about 46 billion dinars. This is now being deployed according to the priorities of course set by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These priorities show, in fact, that is, the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I will only list one of them, such as the increase in public sector wages ranging from 8% to 15% in different categories showing what priorities are in terms of the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. After the rebalancing, this positive rebalance we adopted the 2020 budget. Then we could hear criticism that this budget was pre-election. However, the budget is not pre-election. We remember very well the pre-election budgets when the DS increased salaries and pensions without any basis, without any real basis just for people to vote for them. So, this budget is not a pre-election budget, we have also found that the budget is developmental, that it will also work on developing all areas in the Republic of Serbia, from education through health, through economy, that it will create situations to create new investments, to attract even more foreign investment and that it will, in fact, work to improve the standard of living for our citizens. To develop all these areas above all, it requires the financial stability that the Republic of Serbia now has. I want to look back on this part of the opposition that criticises both this budget and the positive budget rebalance, this part of the opposition that didn't honour us today, these are the MPs who came to the SZS. You know, they're destroying the markets, we're building. They're tearing down traffic signs, we're fixing it. They're trying to get into institutions, we work in these institutions. May it serve them all honor, their behavior, and we, who are representatives of the SNS, have something to do with going before Serbian citizens when the time comes to go to the elections. They daily place lies, which, of course, are directed at Alexander Vukic, who is a thorn in their eye, only because of all his personal successes and party successes and successes on the state plan. So they're targeting lies against Alexander Vukic, against ministers in the government. First they came after Nebojsa Stefanovic, then Sinisha Mali and all the other ministers in the government, because in fact, that way they want to weaken the Serbian government. The Serbian government, as we can see, continues its work and continues to lower positive results that are only benefits for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to physically breaking into institutions, here is the final example of Bosko Obradovic, who used the flag of the Republic of Serbia to knock on the windows and on the door of this Assembly, whose MP is, and I want to say from this place that he should be ashamed of himself, because the next day, quite non-chalantly, he walked into the hall of the National Assembly where he held the press. So besides these some physical attacks on institutions, they call for lynching, rape, persecution, and the presidents of parliament and the Prime Minister, just because they are aware of the fact that they are not allowed to go to elections because they have no support for the people. Well, gentlemen of the U.S.S., go to elections to legitimately participate in them and be aware that you will be defeated by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67182	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now the word is Violet Djurdjevic Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67183	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of draft laws when it comes to final accounts starting in 2002 to 2018, and I think it is very important to hear a voice in the National Assembly on this subject. First of all, it is the only way for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be aware of how planned on the one hand and how spent on the budget for the years mentioned. It is a very important topic, of course, because it shows us how the budgets were planned from 2002 to 2018. According to the provisions of the current Budgetary System Act, at the end of the year for which the budget was adopted, the final account is certainly drawn up and should be presented to the National Assembly in order for the National Assembly to, in any event, conclude whether the deficit has been dealt with in the budget, or on the other hand with surpluses, i.e. the total revenue and income, i.e. the ratio of expenditure and expenditure. When we talk about the budget deficit and when we look back at one period from 2008 to 2012, that is one word that describes the business of the yellow company between 2008 and 2012. Two thousand eight years were the deficit in the 40.5 billion dinar budget. Already next year, the deficit is twice as high in the budget, and every year next year the deficit is growing and higher. Finally, in 2012, it was four times larger than in 2008 and is 196.4 billion dinars. This led the country “a yellow company. ” Since 2013, after a total of five years of deficit growth, we have shown the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, the decline in deficits in 2013. Today, thanks to the responsible SNS policy, headed by the President of the Republic of course, the situation is completely different, so for the third year in a row, starting in 2017, the budget is recording a surplus. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the end of 2017, the surplus in the budget was 35.5 billion dinars, and at the end of 2018 it was a surplus of 46.6 billion, which gave us sound grounds to do both budget rebalances and thus plan and funds to increase wages and increase pensions on a stable, sustainable fiscal basis. This is the result of the domestic business and responsibility of SNS policy, as well as the responsibilities of the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. We can conclude ourselves that since 2002 absolutely, the final budget accounts have been inaccessible and they have been hidden. Unlike today, they are publicly spoken of in the National Assembly and are absolutely transparent and all data are accessible. Today, the SNS has primarily made it possible to comply with the rules in the area of the budget calendar and the transparency of information on the consumption of planned funds. It is now a great time to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that during Dragan Gilas and the "yellow company" the budget was in deficit. So, dear citizens, budget in deficits, and their pockets in a safe surplus. The traffic of Gilas companies from 2004 to 2013 is over 700m euros. In his time, Serbia recorded a minus 3.1% GDP growth. During the policies of Aleksandar Vukic, GDP has a growth of plus 4.3%, hundreds of thousands of newly employed people, new factories and new investments, salary and pension increases, as well as a reduced unemployment rate. Thanks to one responsible policy, we have a surplus in the budget and we have stable state finances and, of course, pay increases, which is very important for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today Serbia is a modern and in every sense built country and a stable country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia certainly support those who are trying to fix something, to do something, to build a new path, to modernise railways, to increase wages and pensions, to build new hospitals, new clinical centres, to get modern medical equipment. In contrast, we have on the other hand a policy that is a policy of hate, a policy of destruction, burning, a break of glass, to block work, to boycott the work of the National Assembly. So I am sure that citizens this time will choose a modern Serbia programme, better Serbia and Serbia for a better life for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67184	Thank you. Now the word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67185	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's 2002-2018 budget are primarily a significant step for responsible public finances policy. Speaking of public finances, I'll look back on the account of Cynthia Little. Namely, Serbian Finance Minister Sinisa Mali said he was responding to a letter sent to him by Mr Dragan Gilas, saying he was ignorant. Why? Because Dragan Gilas explained and criticised the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Gilas said Serbia is in charge of an additional billion euros and added that it was found on the finance ministry site, said Mr. Mali and denied it. Of course he denied it, and how? Another billion euros is the bond that we re-emissioned to repay your old expensive loans. That's what I'm talking about all the time. They took 7.25, eight, nine, ten, eleven percent. That's why we're in charge, and that's why we came up with a 26.6 billion-euro figure. And not just for that. They reported a debt of 14 billion, then a little less, and they forgot the debt of the city, 1.2 billion, forgot the debt of public enterprises. It's a disaster. They lie, they lie, they lie. Otherwise, this interest Mr. Gilas is talking about was 7.25%, and ours is 1.6%, and so we saved 4.4 billion dinars, said Mali, and that's true. It's for the viewers. The city of Belgrade was in charge of 1.2 billion, leaving us with our current president of the Alliance for Serbia, I would say an alliance for myself, because there are only 25m euros in real estate, but I will talk about it on another occasion. I will now say what the rate of the dinar was and how it has been since 2009, 1.08.2009, the average rate of dinar for one euro was 93.28, 1.08.2010, the average rate of dinar for one euro was 105.11, 1.08.2011, the average rate of dinar for one euro was 102.63, 1.08.2012, the average rate of dinar for one euro was 117.51, 30.06.2015, the average rate of dinar for one euro was 120.60. Inflation for 2012 was 12.2% and 1.8. Inflation usually goes from 1.5 to 2%. Why am I saying that? Because since there's no inflation, investors are coming. Last year alone, we had public investment for 220 billion dinars. Projected for next year, 260 billion dinars. Well, that's how the responsible government works. As far as the budget is concerned, our 2019 budget, even though it's not a topic, I have to say what we've been doing, in short lines. The government successfully implemented fiscal consolidation, stabilising public finances, reduced public debt, of course, improved the economic environment, secured a high rate of economic growth, reduced unemployment from 27% in 2012 to today's historic minimum of 9.5%. When we open an industrial park in Borca, 10,000 more people will be hired, that's what it is. As far as these final results are concerned, or the final accounts of the budget, we go in turn. At the end of the year for which the budget was adopted, the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget is drawn up which the National Assembly for each financial year determines the total revenue, income, expenditure, the financial result of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the financing account. They didn't do it, gentlemen. We do it for the first time now, and that's how it's supposed to be every year. The budget system law was first passed in 2002, then in 2009, but what must not be strained must not be left out that we are in 2003, has ceased to exist unfortunately in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, an agreement was signed on the formation of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro and only in 2006 the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Decision declaring the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What does it matter when I talk about these reports? From 2002 to 2018, tax revenues have the highest participation in all years of the observed period, from other incomes and receipts, an increase in the rate of borrowing in total income and income since 2008 is recorded 6.3%, with a view to reaching 42.1% in 2013 the highest percentage of borrowing income. Privatization income received had a higher share in total income and income in 2002 6.4%, in 2003 11.3%, in 2005, 6.4% and 19% respectively. From 2009 to 2015, as a result of the global economic crisis and the reduction of economic activity, there is a rapid rise in public debt. In order to cover the deficit in the state register, the Republic of Serbia has started intensively broadcasting state securities on the domestic market to make euro bonds on the international financial market. The public debt of the central government expressed in euro at the end of 2009 was 9.8 billion euros, in 2012, 20.1 billion euros and then I return to my own. They did not show public enterprises' debts, did not show the debt of the city of Belgrade 1.2 billion. It's just that Mr. Gilas made 200 million euros and put it in his pocket. The bridge cost 400m euros, costing twice as much, has doubled in Paris 150m euros. You're a disgrace. That's how it's done, so it won't work anymore. Just a few more sentences on the received donation report. This is otherwise an integral part of the final accounts and the EU is the largest donor in Serbia, one of Serbia's most important partners in support, development and ongoing reforms as a candidate for EU membership, and the Republic of Serbia has since 2014 been accredited to use the EU IPA Funds' instruments of access, aimed at strengthening democratic institutions, the rule of law and freedom, gender equality, state administration reform, the implementation of economic reforms, the development of civil society and the improvement of regional and cross-border co-operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67186	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67187	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have reports on the budgets from 2002 to 2018. Of course, it is good that the reports are in front of us, although there has been a change of state and political order during this time, but it is good from the point of view that we send the citizens a clear message that the reports of the 2002-2012 budget were unrealistic, that these reports of budgets that were not based on sound and realistic economic foundations, that these were reports of the budget of the yellow tycoon company, which was carried out, in 12 years, by the authorities, carried out a massacre over the economy, taken from citizens 100 billion euros only from the privatisation process and the country. According to estimates by the US Institute, 51 billion dollars were spent in robbery privatisations of 2,400 companies died. It's those enterprises that have been creating generations and generations before us. By 2011, a third of these privatisations had been broken up, a third of the companies had landed, and 400,000 workers were wandering the streets, as locks and chains were placed on their businesses. It is the time of the yellow tycoon and robbery companies when their ministers and top officials in the image of Djelic showed and sent a message to the people from an economic point of view, completely abnormal, that the global economic crisis is a chance for the Republic of Serbia. The global economic crisis was not a chance for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this was shown by the yellow robbery tycoon government, but it certainly was a chance for a yellow tycoon company and for filling their private pockets. The yellow tycoon company, not only in a material sense has completely devastated and devastated the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, has unfortunately set the border on the Republic of Serbia between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj, and, of course, their present, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, when he was foreign minister, removed the most significant national issue of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN to the EU. These are the results of their devastating and catastrophic policy, which the country brought to Serbia in 2012 before bankruptcy. The citizens then gave their SNS confidence in the elections, and since then the recovery and progress of the Republic of Serbia in economic terms, because unlike those of whom the focus was of personal and private interest, in the focus of the SNS, our President Alexander Vukic, and in the focus of this government, is the economic progress of the country and the better life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Not to forget to say, during the yellow tycoon company, which so much calls for the EU, the IMF escaped in 2011 with its head, regardless, because they were raising expensive commercial loans, in debt to Serbian citizens at interest rates of seven to eight percent, four times raising pensions just to gain citizens' confidence and to vote for them. These populist measures did not follow their hand, and the citizens did not trust them then and I hope they will never return to the political scene again, because they are a common den. What I'm saying is that since 2014, thanks to the reforms that the prime minister started at the time, and today, the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, our country has implemented difficult and painful, but only possible economic reforms, just to make the country economically well. The country's economy is a foundation, and that is the basis for the improvement of the life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to this responsible economic policy, we are in a position today to talk about the development budget, about investing in capital investments, about increasing wages, about raising pensions, about new employment. Today is a great day for the Republic of Serbia and for all its citizens. Today, our President Aleksandar Vukic opened part of Milos Veliki, Surcin – Obrenovac. The total length of the highway is 120km and citizens from Belgrade to Cačka will be able to arrive within the hour. This, of course, does not mean just cutting time, it means better quality of life for these citizens, more jobs, more investment. We look to the future, and that's why Alexander Vukic's policy has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67188	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojčić. Now the word has Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go, Dr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67189	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the final account contains all important information for a certain financial year, it is seen that it was spent, whether these were development costs or were unwarranted costs resulting from the irresponsible and unprofessional management of public finances in the previous period. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that the budgets of the previous government, for the period since 2012, have been everything but development budgets. The elements of the developed economic policy of the former authorities were created in the wrong way, not coordinated, have not produced results. The budgets from 2005 to 2007, and the reason for this is privatisation. It wasn't growth from the economy, it was growth from sales to the firm. Were those development budgets? Does anyone here see any responsibility in planning? What's been achieved? What are the effects on the economy and society team and such budgets from those who ran the country during that period? How much has been set aside and what has been built when capital investments are involved? The best answer is what they left behind. How important was health care, how many invested and how many new facilities were built, how many equipment and modern new appliances were purchased? How important was the security and security of Serbia, its citizens and how much were their military investments and weapons during that period? Were these budgets aimed at reducing unemployment? This is all about the budgets until 2012. You can also see the irresponsibility of spending, and all that depends on what the priority was. That's how we have years when the budget was filled with company sales. Where were those privatisation funds spent? They're focused on consumption. As a consequence, we have in 2012, where we were close to bankruptcy. All this is about an irresponsible way of spending money. This is why fiscal consolidation and structural reforms were taken in 2014. Thus, with austerity and discipline measures, each dinar was taken into account in order to overcome fiscal challenges. Things are different today. Many things have been done in terms of public finances. The third year in a row since 2017 we have a surplus in the budget. Since 2012, we have seen growth in economic terms. A positive balance in the state register speaks about the ability of the government of the Republic of Serbia and shows that Serbia is entering a period of sustainability of public finances continues to progress. With clear growth parameters, with responsibility an excess of fiscal space is opened, with the possibility of further investment and investment. In this way we have a better economic environment, a greater development of the economy and a reduction of unemployment to 9.5%. With the strengthening of the economy and the growth of budget revenues, conditions are created for higher earnings and pensions in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67190	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67191	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and distinguished representatives of the government, when we talk about today's agenda, I think there are two basic impressions in all of this, and that is the responsibility and opportunity to make a comparison. The responsibility, above all, of today's officials in the Republic of Serbia who finally brought these materials to this respected home. When it comes to comparison, the possibility of comparing everything that is the way money is spent in the past with how it's done today. We are formally discussing the final budget account from 2002 to 2016. It's formal, but basically I think we're discussing history, because the good part of the people sitting in this room today at the time when we're talking about budgets, first of all from that distant period in 2002 and 2003, was nothing but a mere child. Today we are talking about history, probably the most painful part of Serbia's economic history. It certainly has its consequences. The fact is, too, that the methodology for making these budgets, all those that were ahead of us today, was different in a different period of time, but also the fact that in the good part of them, especially those until 2012, and in 2014, the income was from enormously large borrowings, and by the rule of large interest. Here, I will remind you of Mirko Cvetkovic's 2011 loan with 7.25% interest, a loan taken to increase pensions and to somehow remain in power again in the 2012 elections. The second part of the income was that part of the privatisation. To the truth, that minimum part of privatisation, because most of the company's sales ended directly in the pockets of the then government representatives as through the enormous commissions they received for the sale of the then state-owned enterprises. However, all of this did not go so well, it had some serious consequences and I think they should be repeated over and over again. I'd compare this to a crime somewhere. If you don't talk about crime all the time and don't keep repeating what happened, it's a real danger for that crime to happen again. What happened is nothing but an economic crime against the state of Serbia and its people. What are the consequences of this and such an economic crime, I'm going to remind you that it's not happening to us again, and we're going to keep doing it. The ruined factories, hundreds of thousands of people on the streets without a job, destroyed the health system, destroyed, and mostly the humiliated military and police, arrested by those who were in the hardest time standing on the defender of this country, a public debt that passed over 80% of GDP, a economic downturn, high inflation and many, many other negative things. You're wondering if maybe there was something good about that whole period? Of course, it was, above all, a benefit for the then-mandator of the government, which today was, above all, in some new DOS that bears the name of the Alliance for Serbia. Their financial background and how it grew, and how it strengthened. All over the world, politicians, who at the time of the destruction of their own country and their own people are seriously financially strengthened, are called unique names - thieves. So there's no confusion when I say this, I mean, first of all, today's DOS, called the Alliance for Serbia and the people who run it. They're the same people from the time these budgets were realised, which we're talking about today. And that's not what's wrong with that, the worst of it is that these people are trying to get back to power again and again with violence. That's the worst part of it. The people certainly won't. There's no other way to get them back to power. People don't want them today. What is it that the people want? The people want what they see today. He wants to work, what the president of the state is doing today, and as far as the person is concerned, he's the one who's doing this job today's president of the state. A man who has officially marked the beginning of a Serbian public today, a message stemming from a Serbian dream about Belgrade's merger, i.e. the merger of Horgos with Cacak. It's a decades-old Serbian dream, where we managed to bring the north of our country together with a modern traffic, and slowly progress towards its south. Now, that's what the people want, and I'm absolutely sure of it. That's what citizens know they appreciate. This certainly remains something that will be an example, probably for historical textbooks, an example of what seems to be the upside-down state, but it is a good thing that it finally happened after a long time before the MPs in this distinguished home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67192	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you are, colleague of Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67193	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing reports of the final budget accounts in the period from 2002 to 2018, although it is a legal obligation, not just a budgetary practice to which we have been obliged and in previous periods to discuss in this House. It has not been done, and it actually represents perhaps the best picture of what we are doing today, as SNS in parliament, and how we work and how transparent we are working to discuss these final accounts today. In fact, when we talk about them, we talk about the policies of those who have gained the legitimacy of creating these policies in this fiscal history of the final accounts review, we have one opportunity for a serious review of the policy of this period and an opportunity to present a clear picture of the policy and work of the SNS and of everything that has been the final policy accounts since 2002. In particular, it would refer to the policy of those who ruled Serbia by 2012 and who today represent the biggest criticism, is as a kind of opposition. I would say that all but the opposition, given that in one legitimate way the opposition would participate in the work, are not involved either here in parliament. So we have an opportunity to look at SNS policy today in relation to those who, by violence, threats and hatred, claim to retake institutions from the will of the people and how different to what they only know and how they only know, which is on the street with violence and with no electoral will. And the goal of course is the same, the goal is certainly that this same budget and final accounts that we're talking about today be enslaved in the same way. The goal is, again, not Serbian citizens, but their personal interests and only their better future. Just the same today, instead of offering some programme to the citizens, a plan, or any indication of concern for Serbia's interests, they are dealing exclusively with how their spokesman Dragan Gilas is multiplying his millions and getting their hands on the tried trade for minutes on RTS which, in any case, the rest of this recycled team, serves to actually be satisfied, occasionally to be fed to some crumbs from the boss's desk and the promise that tomorrow they will have the opportunity to outdo their teacher in the thievery. By reviewing the reports that are in front of us today, we have the opportunity to look at the politics of their time. Once again, let's remember the robbery privatisations, a time when more than 400,000 people were out of a job. To remind ourselves of the years in which the uncertainty of pension payments has become the greatest fear and uncertainty every month, not in the better tomorrow, but in any tomorrow. Breaking down the Assembly's door, occupying the RTS building, destroying the property of Belgrade's citizens, marking unspeakable and insubordinate journalists, attacking non-existent affairs from Pero Milovan Brkic, president and his associates, the closest relatives, I wonder, and I ask Serbian citizens -- what are they promised? What we can hear and what they are not hiding as their only goal is actually to bring down President Alexander Vukic, and through our media we had the opportunity to see in what way, and they explained very vividly how. So, with a sniper and then into the chest, and we have the opportunity, so here today, we still have to remove and make a move towards this ugly past, and we hope never again that by talking about the results that we just adopted in the budget this year, which marked one turning point in Serbia's development and we are just witnesses and the budget itself is actually the fact that all the fiscal consolidation measures and austerity measures that have been applied in previous years have produced results and made it possible to invest in Serbia's future. Serbia has been built in the last five years more than it has been built in the last 50 years, so today we have had the opportunity to see that part of Milos Veliki highway from Surcin to Obrenovac is open. It's just a small part of what's been done. Next year it's promised, and we'll get to the thousandth bridge we've built. Work on the Moravia Corridor, which will be the most modern, widest highway in the country in four years, will connect Corridors 10 and 11, respectively, to western and eastern Serbia. This is how domestic money is managed by citizens of Serbia who are exclusively and only intended to improve their living conditions and this is the way that our people will especially keep young people in the country, because roads mean new investments and new jobs. Soon we will have the opportunity to have President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic announce a new investment cycle that will be presented and present everything that will be built in the next four years and where it will be invested in Serbia. I remind you once again that Serbia has increased its credit rating that gives us one positive look and is approaching another step towards those of the best and most developed. So a balanced and wise policy in both the country and the centres of power gives us the opportunity to safeguard our integrity and the interest of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, and we are essentially different from all those who, in previous times, have acted in power. Our only interest is citizens, their interest, their standard, our children and their future. Of this policy, Serbia-SNS, Serbian President Aleksandra Vukic will never step down and what is most important will not be traded with that interest, and those who trade Serbia's interest in the court will wait in the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67194	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. Now I'm setting a break for an hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67195	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67196	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, I am pleased to see you very often in this high house, which speaks of your relationship to this high house and your commitment to the affairs you carry out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that these reports on the implementation of the budget on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although some should have been long ago, back in 2003. Our political opponents, the SZS-like, had no hearing. They did not put it on the agenda because they did not see the bank robbery of the Republic of Serbia during a number of years. I will try now, in a way, to say, to a senior DOS official, who robbed continuously, not only the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also the budgets of some Balkan countries, as well as the world's countries. It is about the former foreign minister, and now the leader of the Alliance for Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, otherwise, of the Balkan and international groups of thieves and frauds. While he was the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, he exclusively entrusted wonders for the acquisition of airline tickets to Aeroklub and I stress that, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without a written contract and without implementing the procurement process. That's why they haven't put financial reports in years to keep this from being revealed, this robbery they've been making out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. During 2011, Jeremic made a payment to the company Aeroklub, amounting to 42 million 400,000 dinars, which is equivalent to around 300,000 euros, based on a invoice and a miracle, without a signed contract or without public procurement procedures. That's how he robbed Serbia's budget. By controlling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens and respected MPs, the state audit institution warned that Vuk Jeremic, otherwise a leader and member of the Balkan and international group of fraud and thieves, on the implementation when performing the DRI, warned that he had violated two laws, the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Public Procurement. And nothing to anyone. During five years on behalf of airline tickets, Aeroklub paid 180m dinars. And behold, the owner of Aeroklub is Ivan Novcic, according to a close relative of Jeremic's wife, Natasha, but it is his brother-in-law. Only one of Jeremic's roads to Ethiopia was paid with 70,000 euros, and Jeremic traveled three times, so you can figure out how many times they cost him, so 70 times three, 210,000 euros. Payment was made for 2010, with the Aeroklub, 33 million dinars. That's how the citizens of the Republic of Serbia drained their money from the budget, and better say from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through this white-world Balkan and white-world fraud and thief Vuk Jeremic. Vuk Jeremic was also a member, as I said Balkan mechanics and frauds, before he became an international fraud and thief. How? Well, just Balkan, along with Damir Fazlic, otherwise his friend from school days. His friend, Fazlic, therefore, a friend of Vuk Jeremic, behold, miraculously, in 2002, he represented himself in the United States as Djindjic's nephew, who collected assistance for the democratic government in Belgrade. You see the continuity of this Balkan and international thief who violated the Republic of Serbia's budget. Fazlic was detained by the BIA, and to the intervention of the US ambassador, he was released and expelled from the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens, I will say two, three more minutes, to see how this pest has robbed the budget of the Republic of Serbia, namely you, respected citizens. Jeremic shared a special interest in the energy field with Fazlic, which will bring him into contact with powerful and private companies in New York. Now, that's where he came in contact, the chairman of the General Assembly, with Patrick Ho and Tidian Gaddi. I wanted in these six minutes, respected citizens, to show you this white-world thief and fraud, so from our Serbia, through the Balkans, the environment and to the world scales, the ties with private energy companies from Hong Kong capitalised and charged several million euros, which will fit into its organisations two, for that Center for International Policy and Sustainable Development and this other company, through which he transferred his personal gain to the wife, Natasha. From September 2013 alone, by the end of January 2017, Vuk Jeremic, as well as at the expense of his company, was more than $7.5 million. The most important companies in Hong Kong paid him $424,271,000. Donors include UAE companies totaling $200,000, and Monaco received the same amount, which means $200,000. Look at the wonders, and from the Virgin Islands, he had a payment of $600,000. From Emirat Qatar, he received the next $120,000, and from the country's embassy in Berlin, $200,000 was on his account. The Swiss companies made an 88,000-euro payment between 2013 and 2014, and an additional $50,000 in July 2015. From who? From Milos Reljic, whom Jeremic, respected citizens and respected MPs, has appointed as a member of the board of directors of the Tennis Union of Serbia and is likely to have given him 50,000 dollars in gratitude for becoming a member of the tennis union of Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, I address you, Vuk Jeremic, called, as a colleague, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, is also a major pest for the state of Serbia. I was saying how much money he stole from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but not just pests in economic terms, but from a security point of view, which is even more difficult, because it constantly disrupts the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I will only quote one to give you, to see how he tried, or did, a violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It is enough to say that 27.07.2010 is one of the largest dates for Kosovo's so-called statehood. On that day, Pristina received a legal argument to push its independence to the end. That's why Pristina, respected citizens, celebrates Vuk Jeremic. On that day, it gives him special thanks because Albanian leadership considers him the creator of the most important paper in the hands of the so-called independent Kosovo. The vermin is constantly on foreign soil both the state of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. On 17 July 2018, when President Vukic had a very important meeting with French President Mr. Makron, he accused the state of Serbia and the president, I quote, of spreading stability in the Balkans. It's a finished quote. In the authorial text at Washington Post, he most brutally insulted the state of Serbia and its president prior to his meeting with President Pensa. That's what he did before he met with the Russian president. What does that tell you? That it's a very dangerous man. I'm appealing to the D.A.'s office and I have a big objection to the D.A.'s office to launch an investigation, not to say - no one has filed a motion. Here, I'm initiating now. It's enough to initiate in this high house. So, I urge the prosecution to see if there are any elements of the crime in the continued actions of Vuk Jeremic against the Serbian state since 2000, especially since 2008 to today in connection with Article 309, 321. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the wolf, can't achieve anything by lying and planting, he can't do the reputation of Serbia abroad, only right now can someone do evil, and he can't do it to the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, unlike him. Dear MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the president of our state, Aleksandar Vukic, is a great neimar, a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian reformer, a great Serb patriot and above all a great Serbian patriot. Finally, I give full support to Nobel laureate Peter Handke, that is, his ideas that deny Serbia's crimes, seeing Serbia as a victim of the NATO pact. Thank him for denying the genocide in Srebrenica and for being on the side of Slobodan Milosevic, who, unfortunately, was betrayed by some of his closest associates, and members of the SPS. The attack on Handkea is an attack on Serbs-respected citizens of Serbia, but I am not surprised that Philip David is leading the hunt against the great Handkea, because Philip David has been always spitin' on Serbs, the state of Serbia, along with Natasa Kandic and the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic for the past 20 years. Mr. Philip David, he said, quote, that Handke is a moral zero. It's a finished quote. Mr. David, I won't say anything about your morality, because you simply don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67197	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67198	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today's review of these final budget accounts from 2002 to 2019 is exactly the fiscal history of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore it would take a lot more time than we have in the Assembly, but what we can find is that in the first ten years, ten years of the 2002-2012 budget we just had a question and saw in the work how a country is systematically destroyed. These budgets were everything, but not developmental, and these budgets were certainly a reflection of the state of the country in that period when they were passed, as was the budget adopted last month, a reflection of the state of Serbia on today. Since Serbian citizens, as responsible generations were, only those who took responsibility for the state of Serbia in 2012, knew only those who had recently come to a state that could declare bankruptcy and who would probably be in some question so far is in some form, because the direction in which those who are now trying again in every way, in force, threats, threats of rape, hanging, threats of killing to return to power. These people who were deciding about the future from 2002 to 2010, so much in debt for generations, it was indeed a painful job to restore financial stability and restore Serbia to a country in general in order of stable and on a map of reliable states to a recognizable state. What we are witnessing on today, and not just today, but for days, months ago, that's Serbia being built, Serbia having a future. It is the slogan – nothing is far from it, best paints the situation in the 2020 budget, but also in the 2012 budgets, until today. The budgets managed by these companies and when literally everything was far away, in their time it was all far away, because there was no money in that budget for new investments, there was no money from the funds for new roads, there was no funding for social and health care, there was no funding for education. There was no means for anyone, except for a small circle of people who doctored on how to draw money from the budget and put that money in the pockets of a small number of people, and that small number of people are now in the alliance they call the Alliance for Serbia, and that is all but an alliance for Serbia. At that time, everything was far away, because there was no job, so there was a factory far away because it wasn't open. It was also a far-reaching home of health, because the health books were unverified, and the kindergartens were far away because the citizens had no salary to pay for those kindergartens, and the highways were far away, because the highways were gone. All that was in the time of Dragan Djilas, Tadic, the entire yellow company was far away. In the time of Alexander Vukic, at the time of the SNS, of course, everything got closer and closer and closer. Twenty-seven percent of unemployment fell to a single-digit unemployment rate of 9.5%, and that's the data that speaks for itself enough about how much this Serbia is and how many budgets it's been since 2012, so to this, which was planned for 2020, and how much they've contributed to Serbia finally stabilising itself and that people get up in the morning and that they have a place to go and that they have a place to send their children and have something to do and that they have a way to drive to somewhere and have a car and that they have the opportunity to go anywhere. What is a feature of the budget in Serbia's recent history, it is a development budget, a budget that brings investors, a budget that guarantees the future of this Serbia. That there are still, unfortunately, those who do not work properly also show the town of Sabac, according to Nebojsa Zelenovic, who is like a doll at the Dusan Petrovic and Dragan Djilas puppet theatre. He spent fivem euros from the 2015 budget, and we are talking about the 2015 budget, and here today, the 2020 budget is being considered in the town of Sapac and it is being considered and proposed by the only convicted mayor in Serbia's history to embezzle the fivem-euro budget. The judicial authorities just didn't do their job. The man who embezzled five million euros, who took those five million from the budget of the city of Sapca for 2015, is guilty, and has also confirmed the verdict of the Greater Court, which is also the verdict of Nebojsa Zelenovic, but also Dusan Petrovic and Kostadinovic, the president of the executive board, otherwise the deputy mayor and Nemanja Pajic, the president of the assembly of the town of Sapac and all those who spent the Thief team, who spend the money of the citizens of Sapac today. They're the ones who paved the paved streets, they're the ones who shut down all the ambulances in the territory of the town of Sapca, they're the ones who destroyed and almost no home of culture exists. Villages seem abandoned, roads do not maintain, and they are those who insisted on a direct decision ten days ago on a direct decision in the town of Sapac in the local community where the convicted mayor lives. Of the 6,200 eligible citizens, 138 voted for the mayor and his proposal. One hundred thirty-eight votes out of 6,200, which is the support that Dragan Djilas, Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic and the entire thief team have in Sapac. That the budget can be real, that it can be in the interest of citizens, shows the budget of the Serbian Parliament, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted here and which will bring even less unemployment in 2020 and bring new investments and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67199	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67200	Dear Members, here at the end of this debate on the final account, I must, since I have read in the exhibition all about the final accounts from 2002 to 2018, have the need to say and perhaps in a slightly different way all that is shown in these final accounts. In fact, if someone seemingly looks at these final accounts, they will say that, for example, from 2005 to 2007, 2008 was good in the Republic of Serbia and that some results, some of the tables show exactly that. However, this is only about the apparent thing and the best indicators of how good it is in one society is how and how inflation moves, the price rises to a little bit, how the course moves, and how we owe. The fact is that from 2004 to 2017, Serbia's credit rating was BB minus. So he was tending to fall. It is only in 2017 until 2019 that control is established in some way and it becomes BB stable, and only in 2019, and perhaps a month ago, it goes to plus, with a tendency to go to positive. Which is why it's such a good illusion, among other things, is the reason that in those years, as you know, we had privatisation, most of them that were abused, failed. Some 26 privatizations, where in some ways, certain circles of people came to their wealth, and by doing so, we talked here and today, from some income that was big, but it turned out to be seven times smaller than what was meant to be shown realistically. Then, in those years, from 2004 to 2008, we have a debt with a maturity, a ten-year bond broadcast and an interest rate of seven to ten percent. So, you know for yourself if you are in debt at that interest rate, how much is it on the day of your stay and how much does the country owe, and the maturity was 10 years later, so some 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. So today we're going to pay for everything someone owed at the time. The fact that he owed himself, if he had been on a real basis, would not have been such a big problem, but would have been in debt most often because of the liquidity of public enterprises, because of pension payments, because of everything that didn't have a real basis, and which is a real problem for the state at the time when it should be returned because it doesn't create a new value. At this session, we talked about borrowing, but about borrowing the Republic of Serbia on realistic grounds, on the basis of which the state can return more favourable interest, which is one or two percent and under the circumstances where exactly what the state of Serbia is in charge is that it creates a new value, something that will make it worth itself, which will benefit our citizens. Then, we must today take care of both payment and early payment. We managed to get some credit back before time just for a reason not to pay such a big interest. Also, what was the same word here is punishment and foam that nobody talked about, which is an integral part of some of our ugly past from those years, where some bad decisions like the pension coordination or some harmful things in the state of Serbia, where we've lost our disputes, have come at the expense of these years where we have to return it now. How and how to get out of all of this is, one of the first and I mean the most significant measures, certainly the introduction of what we've talked about here, it's education and local self-government into the vault system, where it's going to be able to control the spending of money. Also, I'd like to say a few things about foreign direct investment and extraordinary income. When it comes to foreign direct investment, they were, for example, 752.8m euros in 2012, and in 2018 we ended up with three billion 187.9m euros. In the first nine months of this year, we have two billion and 706.9 billion euros, which says that this country and how it gives confidence to investors who want to come and invest in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to extraordinary non-tax revenues, they are, for example, when it comes to the profits of public agencies in 2014, a billion 186 million, in 2018 we ended up with two billion 37 million. When it comes to the acquisition of public enterprises and dividends, it was nine billion 775 million in 2014, we ended up with 27 billion and 270 million in 2018. When it came to outstanding incomes, they were at seven billion and 115 million, we ended in 2018 with 20 billion 803 million. So the state's revenues have increased as well. But since there were also talk of subsidies, only that there are no doubts, Serbia has never made discrimination between foreign and domestic investors and between foreign and domestic ones who have the right to subsidies, they have them on the same terms. As regards subsidies, 17.7 billion were planned and spent in 2019, 13.5 billion were planned, so less money for subsidies. What's important and what needs to come out of here as a clear message is that all those who want to invest in Serbia, whatever they call themselves, whether foreign or domestic have the same conditions and the same opportunities to apply, and what's important, they don't get money in advance, but according to the project they're proposing and it's only adopted when they're able to do what they said, the state subsidizes and reprogrammes something and gives back that money. Serbia has twice the benefit, as the subsidy is paid by the fact that foreign direct investment comes through the construction of factories and by self-employment that is returned through taxes and contributions. In order not to pass today, even though this may not have anything to do with this subject, today is International Migrant Day. Yesterday it took one statement from one of the leaders of the opposition, it was Bosko Obradovic, but when I talk about him, then I would say that the one you're with, and since there was no reaction from his colleagues Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, I would say that they feel the same way. Yesterday, an initiative was launched by the opposition leader to change Serbia's stance on migrants. Today is the International Day of Migrants, and I must say that the Republic of Serbia disagrees with such fascist statements and with such a pawning of the very part of the opposition that says that Serbia should raise walls, and those who manage to cross and enter Serbia, that it should lock them up with wires and keep them in captivity, in some way, and eventually drive them out of our country. This reminds all of some times in World War II, the fascist ideas that Hitler had and which the state of Serbia never implemented, even on the contrary, the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia were created on anti-fascist grounds. She's always fought for freedom and these crazy and schizophrenic ideas will never go away. Our ideas are, what President Aleksandar Vukic said is that we are a country of free people, that we know very well what it looks like when someone is exiled, when they are without their home and what it means and what it means to them when they are found and on such occasions as help and who gives us a hand. Serbia gives its hand to all, regardless of race, color and faith, and so it will continue. It is the essence and essence of our people and so it will be in the future and it will be the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67201	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 20 to 36 of the agenda. Moving to the next point. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE SURVEILLANCE COMMITTEE Does the proposing representative, MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67202	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, under this current law, a law that has been in force for 19 years, entered into the 20th year, only once was the Supervisory Board formed at the beginning of the 2000 election campaign and never again. The indolence of all these regimes since 2000 is simply amazing. Each election tour could be declared illegal, invalid, unconstitutional, unless such an important legal provision is met. Here, this time we're in a position, so, after almost 20 years, we're going to form that supervisory board again. That's good, provided the Supervisory Board does the job right. Last time 20 years ago, the Supervisory Board met with the obstructions of the Dossmanian government at every turn. They just didn't give it up, they didn't even often want to publish his statements about the observed irregularities. One of the most important tasks of the Supervisory Board is to control the handling of public information funds in the application of the provisions of this law, which concern the provision of equal conditions for the presentation of voters and candidates from the electoral lists. It's in article 100 of the election law. What would that mean in practice? Where do we have the most trouble in the election campaign? When presenting parties in public media, especially by electronic means, to electronic media with a central frequency, with a national frequency. The practice of dealing with political parties has lost. Actually, it's reduced to a minimum. At the time of the Socialist regime of Milosevic, there were sometimes 16 of these parties' confrontations. Indeed, all parties were able to express themselves, and these confrontations were well followed by the people. Now it's become a mere formality. We have to go back to that old practice, with enough representations, in which thematically we would consider basic issues that normally involve all parties in the campaign. Then, as far as representing political parties on our own, we had an hour and a half before the 1990 elections, then and never again. Then it's reduced to an hour, 45 minutes, even 30 minutes. I think we actually had the most democratic election practice at the time of the Socialists. Of course, and then there were lists of voters gathered in local cemeterys and then there was a voice theft. There's been everything that's been happening to us over and over again for 30 years. But at least these conditions we had the best satisfied. Furthermore, reports on the central journals have been slowly turned into a mere formality. A few seconds, ten, 15, 20, 30 seconds, and in the first election tours, it was at least two minutes per participant in the election campaign. Furthermore, what causes fundamental inequality between political parties and inequality, in the end, is that all parties do not have enough votes in the elections. Some parties representing the poorest social strata actually have no one to collect voluntary contributions from. The Serbian Radical Party is one of those parties that is fighting for social justice and we are focused on protecting the interests of the most endangered social layers. They're so threatened that we can't really expect any help in that sense on their part. The parties representing the interests of large-scale capital, various investors, are the easiest to come to money and are the easiest to get money from the ruling party. The ruling parties are all trying to please, who can, and the opposition parties are few, unless they are parties to the Western embassies, foreign intelligence services, various so-called. NGOs, like Soros and similar. So where these differences are most pronounced, we should also make the most radical cuts. For example, in the field of television video broadcasting. The ruling parties are able to flood all televisions, actually choke, and the parties that have little money, which are not financed from abroad, nor can many voluntary contributions collect, are limited to the minimum number of minutes of broadcasting. That's why we should do one of the next two things. Completely abolish propaganda videos, because propaganda videos are not the form of election programs. They are, above all, a propaganda tool that tries to influence public opinion in order to attract voices. Nothing bad would happen if those propaganda videos of pre-election campaign were completely abolished. They are normally banned in periods when elections are not held. They are only allowed under this law at the time of the election campaign. Secondly, all electronic media with a national frequency should be obliged to provide a specific minute free of charge, and besides that the videos cannot be broadcast. That would then be in the right sense to say the equality of political entities in the pre-election campaign. Therefore, the results of the election campaign, i.e. the results in the elections, correspond to their quality, not to the fact that who has the money, because usually the opposite is the proportional value of the parties in relation to the amount of money they have. Furthermore, we also have problems with presenting parties in the daily and weekly newspapers. In my opinion, we should ban a negative campaign there. When parties appear in the media to bring positive things out of their programme, as they see them. If the press continues the campaign against individual parties, we see what the situation will be like. The regime controls the largest number of printed media, but some are controlled by the pro-Western opposition. Opposition parties who are patriotic and do not finance from abroad, such as the SRS, do not have any printed media under their control. We only have our own newspapers, which we share for free in a situation where we can even print them. What is yet to be done here, and is foreseen by Article 100 of the Law, is to monitor pre-election activity and point out possible irregularities in the conduct of political parties, candidates and other participants in the electoral process. Accordingly, it should absolutely be prohibited for one party to collect signatures for another party. It's a very common practice. It's usually the ruling party, it was at the time of the Socialists. Our coalition broke a month before the elections, and this was politically broken by Milosevic, because our coalition partners unfairly to us, incorrectly forced and false signatures to collect for the Radical Party of Serbia, for example. That's where our coalition broke. Instead of uniformly resisting pro-Western parties, we were wasting time in our own conflicts. So that's what socialists did, that's what they did, that's what promoters do. You find both on the left and on the right a number of parties. You're aware that these parties can't cross the census, rarely that they can. But what do you accomplish by doing that? Those parties win half a percent of the vote, 1% of the vote, it's all actually taken away from potential opposition votes, and in the end, when parties who haven't won the censorship, this is divided proportionally and most of all belongs to the party that has the highest percentage of votes. Therefore, whenever it is observed that one party is collecting signatures from another party, it must intervene with energetic measures and prevent it. Furthermore, the opposition's votes in the polls are being hijacked. Whoever has the most controllers in the polling stations, who can keep those controllers on a leash, who can give those controllers extra and cash rewards, he's already done half the work. We also have a problem with these parties that are artificially placed on the list, with regard to the distribution of budgets. If, for example, The ruling party puts five artificial, marginal parties from the right and puts five on the left, collects their signatures, then the party at least in the first stage, at the beginning of the election, participates in the distribution of budget money, takes the money, spends it nicely on bars. There was a Sakic from Kruševac, whether Sakic was called, who formed the New Radical Party, so he set up his mother, wife, sons, whom he did not set up and received a piece of campaign money nicely and with this money they enjoyed. They didn't care about the campaign, they didn't do anything. That's the way it is in this case. The party, which can collect 10,000 signatures on its own and pay a fee for those signatures, can also expect to cross the 5% price. Those who can't get their signatures themselves, but someone else is collecting them, they can't. That is why your goal should also be to eliminate these parties, not to allow them, therefore, to participate in the division of budget money, because they are only pests. They use money in a way that's not appropriate. Most municipalities, we have this in all local elections, very late with the payment of money from the municipal budget based on the registered election lists. Sometimes that money comes to the party accounts when we've already shut down those accounts by law, because we have to end all pre-election activities and file reports on the money spent and on the one that came from the budget and the one that the party itself invested. Some parties claim to bribe voters with the distribution of life supplies. It's already started to split the package. I can do that, of course, by the ruling party, and you're doing it two ways. You've got a lot of money, so you can. Of course, you get that money from the budget by the number of seats won, and on the other hand, many businessmen are simply yagmies, it's easier for them to help you campaign their products, what they trade, than to give you money. Then you give people packages of flour, oil, sugar and other things to get their votes. Some parties, like this Rasim Ljajic, shared one brownie, stoves, refrigerators, what was that, in Arangelovac and these things happened. It should be prohibited to share in the campaign anything other than propaganda material – newspapers, flyers, stickers, books, etc. What you're about to show your humanity and what you can collect for life, show it out of the election campaign, so share to the poor, share to the pensioners, share to those who are on welfare, etc. That's positive, then, it's commendable, but sharing it in a pre-election campaign to win more votes, is not correct and is not democratic. Some parties also organize medical examinations of citizens, so they bring a team of doctors to individual villages, sometimes gynaecological examinations, sometimes like these, sometimes they bring drug addicts, but it's as if everything is allowed just to attract and turn around. It's not an election campaign. I know, we have similar examples in history. For example, some parties in the Kingdom of Serbia shared with peasants before the election a perk, such as the right one, and after the election, if they won the village, and left, and if they lost in that village, the left one would never share. That's what happened. That's what our history recorded. But we have to stop it. We must have a modern, democratic and electoral process. The basic problem after the elections, when the National Assembly is established, is that the parties coming out of the coalition tend to form a larger number of parliamentary groups. It's not correct, it's not democratic. As a rule, each electoral list should form its own parliamentary group, as the electoral list, by default, was published under a single programme. I can't have the parties split into four, five, to get some more privileges here, the office more, the secretary more, more of this, more of this. When budget money is divided after the elections, it should be divided exclusively by the number of mandates won, not by who has the parliamentary group. They're getting parliamentary groups now, aren't they? So that would be very important if you knew in advance. No one can forbid you from making coalitions now, that's your thing, but after the election, you have to commit that all of those political parties that are in one coalition have one parliamentary group and so we have a simpler and more transparent situation when parliamentary debates are being held. For example, we have an institution here, once a month questions are asked to the government, and it starts from the smallest political parties, and every time they start over, we never get started. (Alexander Martinovic: It is not up to us. What do you have to ask the ministers? (Alexander Martinovic: What haven't we got? Take the minister to the pub and question them well. You're the ruling party. It's a means that allows the opposition to resolve the government. And it never came to us, and we decided one moment not to wait any longer. You once called us, when these others were boycotting, come on, come on, now you'll get your turn, and we'll say, "e, we won't." (Alexander Martinovic: Tell Marko anecdote about Stjepan Radic. What do you say? Marco, did you say something? No, you're better off, Marco. (Alexander Martinovic: Anecdota about Stjepan Radic.) Marco's telling the anecdote about the war. Well, well, Marco was an MP in the Croatian Parliament, he knows all those anecdotes. So these would be basic things to take care of. These are the basic negatives that occur and that need to be eliminated. These are the basic problems that need to be solved, if we really want to have one serious political campaign. It must be kept, of course, and the moral integrity of the candidate's personality, and that provides for Article 100. The law. The equality of candidates in the presentation of the programme must be fully respected. This Supervisory Board should warn of the actions of all parties which do not agree with democratic principles, which is precisely a multitude of these procedures that I have already stated here. We should achieve one consensus, that these things are eliminated once and for all, that we have a serious election campaign, and then, when we have a serious election campaign, then they're more serious, then there's no evil blood, there's not so much hate spills, and it's just more appropriate for citizens and citizens are more interested in responding and in participating in the election game. If it's an election game, who's gonna break their necks, then, for God's sake, and the citizens hesitate. These black limos should be excluded, the moss is black, the jeeps brought by citizens should be excluded from photographing ballots in the polling post, handing out front ballots with a round answer, and then expected to return the ballot, the one that gets an empty ballot in the polling post. We all know those things. Nothing here is unknown to us. (President: Bringing the end. But once we make an effort to remove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67203	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary group or the president want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to know in advance that after the election, the ruling majority will likely be charged with theft. It is a favorite custom in Serbia, that those who lose the election usually say they have been stolen. I expect Janko Veselinovic to be brutally stolen in the elections and that, as he has already used to, he shows it. By the way, Janko Veselinović is also known as a participant in Croatia's elections. That's what Mr. Martinovic knows. So, at the time these yellow cockroaches ruled, he transported voters originating in Croatia by bus to participate in elections, especially local elections, in Croatia. And then, miraculously, right in front of the polling stations, his friends from HDZ entered the bus and usually ordered Serbs to vote for HDZ, to vote against themselves. So, it is to expect that such a person, and there are more of them, is a harmless case compared to Bosko Ljotic, accused of the ruling majority or whoever wins the election. Because, in the elections, they all come from one line, no one enters as power. It is expected that Bosko Ljotic Zutic accuses those who won the election of brutally stealing it, and that he has won the elections in a certain way. It is particularly dangerous, in my opinion, for the right that we have allowed the voter to look and make an insight into the voter's list, or to check whether he voted in that and that polling post. Any one of us can lie. It's possible... (Vojislav Seselj: Mark goes to you. Let's make it Mark. Maybe he went to the Parliament. So each of us can check, but he can also lie. So it is possible that a number of opposition voters or voters who have lost the election get a task from voters and their election headquarters to come to the polls, look, come out and say -- they did not vote, but someone signed up for them in the vote list. It will be a great danger and it is my duty to warn you, given that the last agreements within the National Assembly, that we have drawn attention to this possibility and let's hope it doesn't happen, but knowing those who have a very low rating in the people, is not to not expect that such a kind of misinformation, or that kind of lie. The media is good when they write nice about me. Then they're independent, they're good, they're fair, they're objective. If they write nice about me and my party. If the media doesn't write and report to me electronically, then they're pro-fascistly controlled, governmental, I don't know whose media, it depends on the angle being watched. If I don't think it's nice what they wrote about me, then it's not any media, then it's the media of the Wolfs, I don't know whose, but if they write as nice as "Today," then it's the media that are independent, free and objective, even though they're not. So, "Nin", which we have already convinced ourselves of in which way many politicians, and especially the President of the Republic, were represented on their front pages, are objective, etc. We citizens can't get them to read "Today." I hope the Supervisory Board doesn't do that. We can't force them in any way, the rifle to put in most citizens, they'll refuse to read "Today", they'll refuse to read "Time", they'll refuse to read "The Sundayer", many of them will refuse to read "Blic", many of them will refuse to read "NIN". So, for no reason will the citizens want to read it. The opposition expects, that part of the opposition that boycotts the National Assembly, and does not boycott the salary, they in a certain way expect us to force the people to read it, they expect us to force the people to watch "N1" television, "New S" television, but because the people don't watch it, because they don't read it, then they're objective media, and those media that are most viewed, in them, are not objective enough. I believe that they think that I need, ultimately, the people themselves, to make them vote for Boško Ljatic yellow, for the team gathered around him, I call it for the team gathered, for the coalition gathered around the great Janko Veseinovic, however, it is not possible. So everything we've done in the previous period will be a waste of work because those who haven't talked or negotiated at all say that these agreements are not properly respected, even though they did not participate in those agreements themselves. We were against foreign media participation in the election campaign. You certainly know that the mighty America, the United States, that if Columbus hadn't discovered, the world would have been richer by one continent, that America complained in a certain way that the Russians were online, and I don't know how they already affected the US election campaign. We have here two foreign televisions that are not registered in Serbia. It is about media that are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, which have been broadcasting for 24 hours a programme against parties that are patriotically in the mood, not to say against ruling parties, but against parties that are in a certain way patriotically oriented towards the state of Serbia. Twenty-four hours are being broadcast against these parties and against politicians who lead them. I don't think it's allowed, and we shouldn't allow foreign television to participate in an election campaign, which is propaganda messages, which is what shows. In such a way, the state, and let's say "N1" boasts that it is related to "Si-En-En", so, with the American media registered in Luxembourg, the programme reportedly broadcasts from Slovenia. Therefore, it is not allowed, nor would any state allow any foreign countries, through electronic media, who, behold, are lined up on cable on a programme of one and two, in such a rough way, to interfere with the election campaign and thus influence the electoral will of voters who should participate in the elections and decide who will be the authority. Those who boycott the elections to warn - the authority is chosen not only by the one who votes, the authority chooses in a certain way and by the one who does not vote. So whoever does not exercise his right to vote, either on a speech or on his own, he has, in a certain way, participated in the schedule of political parties, influenced the censorship, influenced the schedule within the political forces of the electoral lists that have crossed the census, and therefore my recommendation is for the citizens to still exercise their right, regardless of the speech of these parties. It's not normal, these parties of that part of the opposition should know, let a foreign factor get mixed up in our elections through televisions registered abroad. However, there is a Montenegrin saying – anything that pleases your butt, doesn't bother your cheek. (Vojislav Seselj: What do they say? Everything that happens to your ass doesn't bother your cheek. Part of the opposition party is acting that way. So, if it suits them to take pictures 24 hours on these two televisions, then there's no problem, then they're objective, independent, I don't know what kind of televisions to be seen on because 24 hours you have Buckic, Teodorović, Georgieva, CINS, KRIK, I don't know what they're called anymore, alleged intelligence agencies and information, better say for disinformation. So it's about the media that have a certain way, I would dare say, anti-state policy, which creates its information through various portals, through NGOs, especially the type of association. I often call it anti-government organisations, some of whom like CRTE tried to create election rules, or before this election campaign. How can CRTA be objective when its representative, the main man, stormed the presidency building along with Gilas and Jeremic and other opposition champions? So, it's not about objective NGOs and their representatives, it's about, first of all, second positions, so it's about the reserve composition of the DS electoral body and their satellites. I think we should also take care of what we asked for, that it's forbidden to buy the party's debts. Our media will, of course, not inform, especially those who favor the opposition. Stealing votes is possible even after the election. So, most of the talk is about stealing votes that may happen for a vote, two in a polling post, in some elections that will happen or that have happened before. No one's talking about the thefts that take place after the election. I ask you, how many times did Marinika Tepic steal votes? How many times has this congratulatory marine stolen votes? If someone voted in favour of Canak, Ceda, Boris Tadic, he voted that the election list has a corresponding number of mandates. Then someone on the list takes 15,000 votes and moves on to Jankovic, moves from Jankovic to Zivkovic, moves from Zivkovic to Gilas and starts walking 15 thousand voters who have never voted for a party that was not even registered before the 2016 elections, it is the party of Dragan Gilas. The lady in a certain way stole, not only her, but the MPs from his party, each of them stole 15,000 votes after the election. Packed up 15 thousand votes nicely, and walked them from Canka, Ceda and Boris to Jankovic, from Jankovic to Zivkovic, from Zivkovic to Dragan Djilas. We have suggested that anyone who wishes to change the party after the election, that they must verify at the notaries 15,000 voters, who would reportedly vote for such a kind of transition and so legitimate that they still have, with the other party, that they have 15,000 votes. This election theft is very serious, since people who have money can buy the whole congregation in such a way. So someone comes in some way, say, 140 per 110 MPs, someone comes in that way 20 Marines, or I don't know how these Gilas MPs seem to be embarrassed to come here, I don't know what they're called, take votes well after the election, take with them, move to another party, and change voter's will. They say -- we've packed 300,000 votes nicely, what you voted, it doesn't matter, it's important that the elections are held, but whoever wins will decide the money, we'll buy 20 MPs, form a government, and in this way we cheat on all those who voted. So we also asked that the party's debts could not be bought. We already have in practice that Gilas and the team bought DS in a certain way because they bought the debts of the parties. By buying the party's debts, they become unauthorized donors. So, when you have pre-elections, donations for an election campaign, these donations are under the control of the Anti-Corruption Agency and can't cross a certain amount, but if you spend more money on purpose and buy debts as a legal or physical person after the election, you are in a certain way becoming an unauthorized donor, buying political influence on that party, paying interest, laundering money and all that happens to Dragan Gilas. I think it should be prevented, because it harms not only the electoral will of voters but it damages the country's political processes, because people who are rich can always be found, who can finance the campaign unauthorized and, after the election, buy the party's debts and legalize their donation in an unauthorized way. That's all about, of course, the parties of national minorities. In the next election, you will have several dozen electoral lists, false national minorities such as Djordjet Vukadinovic, Djordjet Vlah, where people will steal the national identity of national minorities in order to smuggle themselves through the electoral threshold. This is very dangerous because by stealing the national identity of national minorities, national minorities are prevented in a certain way from realizing their interest in the elections, to be presented. It is particularly dangerous for a few national minorities, where they can barely win a mandate or two and these few national minorities are most often registered in a register such as the Vlachs of a national minority. It seems to me, against the number of people or members, has the largest number of political parties. You have, I don't know how many Russian parties. So this is also very dangerous for the national minority they are trying to represent in a false way, because it is usually about members of the majority, i.e. members of the Serb people who in such a way as Djordje Vukadinovic, by stealing national identity, are trying to reach the Assembly, which is bad for them and also for the national minority they falsely represent. Anyway, we didn't even share national frequencies, we didn't share national frequencies, we didn't set up editors and directors at RTS, so the entire management at RTS, from the yellow days, the boycotting ones, and they're blocking them RTS. So it's their leadership that Gilas made deals with. We didn't break in with long pipes in BK. We didn't ban any newspapers. We did not detain Raja Rodic, the owner of "Kurira" and "The Voice of the Public". So it's all done by those who complain about the media photo today and don't be sure after the election, no matter what the conditions, that they won't say that the elections weren't legal and legitimate. I believe that all of us who are here will go out on their terms to the elections for who knows which time. They will not go out on their own terms, no matter how much we give in and correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67205	Thank you. Natasa Mihajlovic's MP has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67206	Thank you. So, just six more days, he's been dividing us since the full 19 years since the last time the Supervisory Board was formed, and the last time, about six days before 19 years ago, a member of the Supervisory Board announced. The formation of the Supervisory Board is part of an agreement reached during inter-party dialogue, not only with Europarliamentaries but also at the beginning of the process when discussed at the Faculty of Political Sciences. Namely, this is one of the first recommendations adopted by the parliamentary majority, given by the civilian sector. Regardless of the fact that the Supervisory Board is an advisory character, it is important that we explain to the citizens that they know what they can expect from that body. So, the Supervisory Board is an advisory character, but its establishment is important precisely because of what previous speakers have pointed out to adequately monitor pre-election activities and irregularities, control the media and the way they inform citizens about the election campaign. They control, therefore, equal conditions for the presentation of candidates and list holders, protect the candidate's moral integrity and warn of procedures that threaten the election campaign. The committee responsible shall not have the authority to punish and sanction those who do not comply with electoral rules when it comes to the media, but may therefore submit an initiative to initiate proceedings before state authorities for participants who call for violence and broader national, religious, racial, gender, or any other kind of discrimination. So, as I said, the formation of the Supervisory Board is part of the agreement and one of the recommendations of the civil sector adopted by the parliamentary majority at the beginning of inter-party talks, because we believe it is important to do monitoring of the media and thus determine whether the equality of participants in the electoral process has been respected. Let me now, for the sake of the citizens, because I know that colleagues in parliament remember that period from 19 years ago, more precisely that period in which we did not form a supervisory board. It should be said, to the truth, that three years ago, the formation of the Supervisory Board has been sought by the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, however, the interest that this body was formed has not been shown by the parties in parliament, especially by the opposition parties who, even then, sought to provide fair electoral conditions, except for one, therefore, there were no interested parties that this body was indeed formed. Many years earlier, there was a requirement for the Supervisory Board to be formed, but as three years ago, there was not even a shred of willingness to do so even though it was an obligation arising from the Law on the Selection of MPs. Mr. Seselj said it nicely, Article 100 clearly provides for both jurisdiction and all the tasks that the Supervisory Board is dealing with. I'll just remind you that in 2008, for example, RIK asked the government and the Assembly to form a supervisory board, but that, as we all know well, was not then done. The request was then delayed because parliament had already been disbanded. Two years before that, RIK also asked the government before the parliamentary elections in November 2006 and January 2007 to take urgent measures to form the Supervisory Board. The government announced it would do its part of the job, however, none of the work was done. At the time, Transparency of Serbia also asked the Serbian Parliament to form the Supervisory Board. Transparency of Serbia is one of the civil society organisations that actively participated in inter-party dialogue on both FPN and the intervention of Europarliamentaries. So, at a time when Transparency of Serbia asked the Serbian Parliament to form the Supervisory Board, it has been accountable to them since then by the ruling majority that many regulations have been passed and that we also have the Anti-Corruption Agency and that we have the RRA, it was once a name for REM, with powers already dealt with by the Supervisory Board, so it was not even formed. There were other even more creative explanations why we didn't need the Supervisory Board, but one of the too many, I must admit, was an explanation that the Supervisory Board couldn't impose sanctions and that his role was advisory. I've explained this a little while ago, but regardless, forming the Supervisory Board is a legal category. So, according to the law, the Supervisory Board is formed before each election. And, here, someone liked it or not, after 19 years, this parliamentary majority formed the Supervisory Board just as this parliamentary majority adopted a set of media laws in 2014, the first set of media laws since 2000 to today that is fully in line with European standards. We remember that in 2007, too, the OSCE mission, just another little reminder since we often have short memories, so it's not bad to remember how much we didn't take care of the law we've passed ourselves, so the OSCE mission in 2007, the election-watching mission resented in 2007 to the Republic Election Commission, which was not formed by the Supervisory Board during the elections, of course whose task was then, as it will be tomorrow to monitor the election's pre-election activities of the parties and the media. The opposition that RIK then discussed was that the elections were successfully conducted in Serbia at the time, but one of the serious objections of the OSCE was that the Supervisory Board was not formed in 2007. The previous speakers have instructed the percentage representation of political parties and participants in the electoral process in certain media. I don't think I'm going to take up valuable time, if there's any need to talk about it I'm going to talk a little bit more in the course of the debate, let's see how the media, or the participants in the election process, were represented at individual TV stations and 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2012. This should be just one small reminder of how important it will be for the Supervisory Board to make one such monitoring after the next election. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, will support the formation of the Supervisory Board as well as any other activities resulting from the agreement during an inter-party dialogue with the European Parliamentarians, aimed at improving the electoral process. For the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, this is only the beginning of the long-term process, which will not end in the 2020 elections, but will continue to work on making Serbian citizens the best and most advanced electoral conditions that apply in all developed countries of Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67207	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67208	Thank you, Chairman. Here, today when we bring in today's debate of the end, we are deciding on some personal solutions, on human resources that are specifically linked to the Supervisory Board, which has the capacity to oversee the work of political parties, media activities during the election campaign. This is essentially a kind of slow or gradual rounding of the election process improvement through the normative part. We have an absurd here. Absurd that through this very normation we are doing something that others should have done significantly earlier, but since they have not done it or have done it very badly, this congregational majority, or opposition and the congregational majority in this congregation, is doing it. We have heard today from part of the opposition of a certain criticism, not all of it, but certain criticisms identified by criticism sent by representatives of the European Union and one part of the opposition, and that of the opposition from the street. But this part of the opposition that is here with us has the right to criticise, because it participates in discussions and dialogue here with us where there is a place for dialogue, unlike that other part of the opposition that messages it sends off the street or the street and does not want to participate in a dialogue on something that is most responsible. Why is he responsible? It is responsible for them, those critics, who have passed the laws that we today have to correct, which we have to improve today by quality and which we have to promote today in order for the electoral process in Serbia to be as high-quality as possible. Unlike others, regardless of what sides of criticism are being referred to, the SPS considers the best mechanism of protection against manipulation in the electoral process to be an honest and clear attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the fight to protect their interests. It's certainly the best mechanism of protection against everything we've heard as a possibility of abuse in the election process. What does that mean? This means that the programme of parties must be presented to citizens in full clarity and transparency, that the programme recognises everything that implies the interest of citizens, primarily, the interest in a better life, for what is considered to be an elementary courtesy when it comes to not only existence but all needs that must be served to citizens by the authorities. In this way, citizens will have the right to make a choice between destruction and violence that they can also see and recognize in the streets, in the media houses, in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in various places where works are done for the benefit of citizens and for the sake of a better life of citizens, and on the other hand they have a choice in the direction of something that involves the results of the work, and not only the results of the work, but the drive to make these results even more affirmative, i.e. to improve and to recognise their benefits and to meet their needs. So it is perfectly clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, in the discussion between these two options, they can identify what is better for them, what is more useful for them and on what basis they will be able to do better when they make that choice. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia are absolutely certain that this choice will be real and the Socialist Party of Serbia has always fought for that programme, which, primarily, cherishs the fight for social justice, for social equality in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the possibility that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only today, but also for the future every day, will live better and better, and that through everything that awaits them in the future, they can acquire those conditions that have long ago been affirmed and that exist in developed EU countries. That is why it is our commitment to continue the path to the EU, that is to keep Serbia on that path and to keep it as short as possible in future time, i.e. to get past it as soon as possible to become a permanent member of EU countries and share all the positive values of the EU together. At the very end, I would like to point out one fact that is at the heart of us in the Socialist Party Group of Serbia indisputable, which is that today when we talk about solutions relating to the election of members of the Supervisory Board, we are sure that these are good solutions, that they are candidates who have both personal and professional integrity and any other integrity, of course and authority, that precisely because they have such capacity to bear the burden of responsibility, for what they expect, and that is the task of the supervisory board that we are also discussing today on the other hand, these same candidates, which we are going to support, have no doubt the obligation to justify the trust that is being given to them in such a way that we, I am sure, the complete majority in the coalition capacity of government support these candidates and to show them that the work that they are going to be able to carry out as far as possible. We will support this proposal and the SPS parliamentary group will vote for all candidates who are proposed for the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67209	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67210	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, literally the day the former regime began with pointless accusations at the expense of its own state that there are no democratic conditions, that there are no fair conditions to retain elections according to the highest standards, literally the day they started pouring unwitting lies that for years, imagine, there are no such conditions here, apparently, they are told -- you're lying to yourself. So, you incompetents, you vermin, you lie to yourself and give yourself an excuse in advance why you won't go to the election because you're aware you don't have any support. If there was no substance there, it was quite clear from our response, which, in addition to the notes, was – there are no such electoral conditions by which you can beat the list led by Aleksandar Vukic. It's clear to all of you, the clearest thing for you, and that's why there are no electoral conditions that we can't improve, and we're really ready for anything, because we have nothing to fear from. It's clear to us that all you've got to do is lose hard. It was the first exchange of words and opinions on this subject and look what has happened since then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We listened to everything and everything, and about the conditions related to the functioning campaign and the alleged abuses of public resources and the alleged failure of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. We've heard about everything and everything, and among other things, this Supervisory Board, which we've said, is no problem at all. It will be established, here, for the first time in 20 years, to see that we have nothing to fear, that we have nothing to hesitate about, that we should lose sight or worry about. We'll do what you never wanted, which never occurred. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been heard several times today, but let me repeat, the Supervisory Board discussed by members of the former regime, all speaking of the most recent nonsense possible, nonsense about electoral conditions, never occurred to them to form themselves. They've had how many chances? Well, I'm sure a few election cycles and all the time they had the law, this Supervisory Board, but every time they tried to come up with a proper excuse why they didn't want to deal with it, why they didn't want to form it. Someone would say and perhaps be right that this Supervisory Board may not have had too much power and that it was formed every time, could not punish, so it is a question of how much it could regulate relations during the election campaign, but nobody can say that the poorest hypocrites are not those who have never formed it once, and then they find themselves smart to start a few years back at all mouths to shout - they can't hold any election cycles without the Supervisory Board without being democratic. They will not admit, they say, the results of these elections if they are held without the Supervisory Board, because it is not in spirit with the relevant European standards. Not once, once again, that committee was formed. As they referred to that question, it is good that we were reminded today. Some colleagues talked about it. Among other things, a few years ago, it seemed to me, in 2007, to a direct call from the famous NGO sector, at a time when DS with its cooperatives, with its subsidiaries, seemed to most of them, NGOs were calling for them to form the Supervisory Board and these most officially tell them -- there's no need for that, because we now have a Anti-Corruption Agency, we now have RRAs and they run the highest standards and they regulate these issues, this Supervisory Board is a completely overcome thing. It will be, when it was, Mrs Vacic, 2007 or 2008. It hasn't been many years since then, and you're starting to get very together and say... I will read to you what they said in 2016: “The formation of the Supervisory Board is required, in accordance with the law, because it is a guarantee of ensuring conditions for fair elections.” In 2016, ahead of the parliamentary elections, and for a few reasons it is important to return to these elections and remind ourselves how things looked then, they formed some kind of commission of their parties, so they baptized it, to provide conditions for fair elections and to get together – the new party, it is Zoran Zivkovic, the Democratic Party, the Movement for Turnover, it is Janko Vesenovic, Mr Risticevic, Together for Serbia, it is this Zelenović, which was again found guilty by the court of 5m euros worth of funds, Dusana Petrovic Zelenovic, so, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Movement "Enough was enough", Radulovic, I don't know if it still moves, SDA Sandzaka, Dveri, and they were there, the New Serbian Political Thought, it is Djordje Vukadinović. They all got together nicely then and sent messages like this on their circles. Look, this is an article from February 08, 2016. It says: "The opposition to the elections is looking for the Supervisory Board". Here, now everyone can find this from their home or from their phone and see that all those I read were gathered and talked – it is necessary to form a Supervisory Board, without it there are no democratic choices, and they added that they are calling for no state resources to be used for pre-election purposes, come to add that they advocate amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities and to all this Djordje Vukadinovic's conclusion says – the authorities would answer to meet any of these requirements, at least one, because it would remove any shadow of doubt about the possible irregularity of the election. Now, you see, these days we're not just gonna finish our work on a few of these things. Not some, but all the ones I mentioned. We have adopted here amendments and additions to different laws that are regulated and appropriate financing of political activities and the issue of using state resources for pre-election purposes, and today we are also dealing with the Supervisory Board. Well, I guess according to Djorga Vukadinovic, we removed all doubts about the regularity of the election process. Of course, everyone in this country knows that the word of these people is worth nothing and that today they don't admit that it ever happened themselves, that they don't even hold onto these things they said at all, because why would they hold on today, when they didn't hold on to these words or the bottom after they said this? A month after they said this, it was a public invitation to form the Supervisory Board. Even then for this election cycle, and thank you to those who reminded it, Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic says – there are no problems, you want this Supervisory Board, here, now officially give what your proposals are. One text that came out shortly after this date said – by that date no one had submitted their proposal. Those who asked and announced in all their mouths that they would submit their proposals, even the DS announced that their candidate would be Vesna Pesic as a member of this Supervisory Board, remember this name, we will return to it soon, they did not propose anyone. Some say, after perhaps one answer in total, perhaps two, one of which was Mr. Markovic Palma, who in response simply said that he was not interested and that's all. But it's their relationship to what they asked for on their own. Which they never found fit to form in their time.? Since they didn't care about it then, and what would they care about a few years later? Is that why the election cycle was undemocratic? Well, judging by the behavior of those people, I wouldn't say anything. They came out of these readings all to the elections. Some went better, some worse, but they all went to the polls. Be careful, now, none of them had the slightest problem that the moment he concluded – yes, here I am in office, to take a nice, sign up here for the parliamentary salary, because they were disgusted with the election without the board of directors, they said they would feel that kind of disgust, God, according to the parliamentary salary, they felt no disgust, nor were they able to take money to collect travel expenses, nor were they able to move faster – to get into various congregation delegations, to travel well, or to get an apartment paid from the National Assembly budget, such as Boška Obradovic. They took all this nicely and forgot the story of the Supervisory Board and any irregularities. Even those who weren't in those elections went as expected, even they agreed that there was, so it seems, absolutely all in the best order possible. Borko Stefanovic, then Borisav Stefanovic, wanted so much in the 2016 elections, if a man had changed his name, changed his personal data just to get out of the election. Vojislav Seselj: And half changed. What else he changed, I don't know, but it's been found to have changed. He ended up with 0.94% of the votes won, and he was terribly sad and depressed. He said he may never rise again from the floor as he suffered a heavy defeat, the question even if he survived, but his words after 2016 won 0.95% of the vote, according to this -- these results, thoughts on the results of the 2016 elections, are Serbia's reality. Now, today, this Borko Stefanovic, who wanted to go to those elections, went to them, but he wanted so much that he was even willing to change his name. Another man in Dragan Gilas's party, others among the loudest to say -- there is no freedom of choice years ago. Here, seven or eight years ago, there's no free choice. Well, looks like something's changed. Someone's gone too far in the head. In 2016, he thought that these elections were not only regular, but also an image of Serbia's reality. Today, he says 2016 was no good. This man, of course, like Dragan Gilas and the rest of his party, I don't know exactly what it's called, I think my colleague Markovic rightly called it "freedom and great-grandfather". They say 2016 elections weren't free. However, because they think so, none of these MPs they bought in the meantime, nor pay, nor travel expenses, nor waves paid by the assembly. Something I didn't notice that Marinika Tepic took from the revolution and found another source of funding. They all keep coming to the cash register regularly. (Vojislav Seselj: Chobanov. The shepherds, right? I know he's acting like Tepic. I don't know how he really is. In any case, the same applies to Bosko Obradovic and his Dvori and to those from the DS and to this from the new Serbian political thought or this "turned one". No, he's not actually in this assembly anymore, is he? So, all these things I've read have been resented in advance, and because of the supervisory board, it's all the same. They're all still faithful cashiers, and in that sense they have nothing to say as a grudge at the expense of regularity, but, well, they spill their brains later. And it wouldn't be so tragic that, ladies and gentlemen, they don't do it today. So today, in 2019, they climbed on the head of both God and the people by talking about some of their six demands and 42 recommendations that must be met by post-pothet, otherwise without it elections are not worth five pairs. And when you take a look at what their requests are on page 4 under the heading “The Supervisory Board” they are looking for, beware now, they are looking for the formation of the Supervisory Board, as outside the governing body for supervision and behaviour, etc., according to the provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs. So they're looking again for the Supervisory Board and they're saying again - without that Supervisory Board there's no democracy and there's no fair choice. And what's going on? Here we are at a session where we decide who will be members of the Supervisory Board. Not only were we serious when we said we didn't have any problem with that. There's nothing to be afraid of when you're not working. We'll begin procedure, everyone will be able to make a proposal, select the National Assembly of those people in time. We even said, if you were interested in when, before New Year's Eve, December 19th, Mr Atlagic, Lord of 2019, it is again the day before Nikoldan, so enough before the New Year. And, as you can see, everything happens just like we said, and they haven't even honored their proposal to send. So, not only are they not here, not only is a single word not going to say on the subject of the Supervisory Board, but it was one of the most important conditions on paper at least, but it wasn't even sent by the honest one. Why? Well, that's more than clear to everyone. Once again for those who have not understood, their own words are of no value to them; that five pairs are of no value. If they didn't mean the moment they said them or wrote them down, what would they mean something to them today? Of all the things they put on these papers, the only thing that really matters is that, ladies and gentlemen, they are among their demands under regular number one. So there's the essence of things, and this is all the rest, the letting the decorations be more sides. Their request under regular number one, therefore, is a priority requirement to oblige the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, not to participate in an election campaign on the side of any election list, not to participate in the elections. It's amongst the demands. Among the recommendations under regular number one, so most important of all the recommendations, let's see what's there. It's amazing, the same thing. The President of the Republic shall not participate in any election campaign on the side of any election list. Priority over all priorities between demands and recommendations and whatever you want. It's him they're interested in, and this is whether or not it's the Supervisory Board, it's just one additional indicator of what hypocrites and liars are like. They bored us in 2016, they didn't even make a proposal. They're boring us again today, and they didn't make a suggestion. Of course they don't care about any of it, and we told them nicely, you'll see, we'll build this Supervisory Board and we'll say it rightly, that we're the first ones who've done it in 20 years, so we'll see when you'll find yourself next time to talk about that Supervisory Board again. Here's a proposal before the MPs. Delivery... (Vojislav Seselj: It is clear that you were once radical as you speak. Can you see it? It's not an accident. Therefore, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government delivered the proposal exactly as the law provides. Ten members of the Supervisory Board, five of whom are proposed by the government, are proposing five parliamentary groups. To hear people and to understand, of these five who come to the National Representatives' proposal in this assembly are the names in order: Svetislav Goncić, Dr Nikola Zutic, Branislav Klansček, Dragan Varagić, Ivana Radovanovic. The first name and fifth name come to a proposal by parliamentary groups that form the parliamentary majority. So, two out of five proposals, and three out of five come to the proposals of different opposition parties. So, SRS, LDP, LSV, SDA, that's the second proposal and the third proposal is SMS. For the record, three out of five proposals coming from the National Assembly are directly proposed by opposition parties. Only to see how much democracy there is or no democracy, how much or no respect for different parliamentary groups and different policies, or representatives of these policies. As much as there is or no reason for us to worry about anything. We know, of course, that the electoral process in this country is according to the best standards possible, that if not 500 times better than what was when it was organized by all kinds of Gilas, Tadics, Jeremiahs and these following "bosci", but that we can make it even better, which means more precise, more concrete, more transparent, if we should be better controlled, so that tomorrow we can say – see, we have provided the electoral conditions that no one in this country ever wanted to provide, ever. When we say that tomorrow, everyone knows in this country, we'll talk with full rights because it'll be true. How do those who have sought this out in such a way, and in fact only distract that the people of Serbia, and above all themselves, are angry that it is so, angry that we have shown that we are not afraid of them at all and that we are ready to defeat them to our feet even in the spring of next year? They will hear no more about us and not only the National Assembly, with the exception of the Assembly's register, of course, but they will hear no more about any dialogue, nor about those intermediaries in the dialogue coming from the European Parliament. Vesna Pesic, an unscheduled DS candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board, says today, angry with the development of the event: "We will no longer intervene" to simplify, those are her words, not mine: " EU shit". That way they have a high opinion. (Vojislav Seselj: Who said that? ) Vesna Pesic. (Vojislav Seselj: She said great. ) They have a high opinion of people coming from the European Parliament, so they have a high opinion on the dialogue being conducted in the National Assembly, on these improvements in electoral conditions or anything that is not directly related to their pockets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you citizens of Serbia who are watching this, to sum up, the National Assembly will declare these proposals. The National Assembly will form its Supervisory Board and we will meet another of the conditions agreed by us, so political actors in this country, in direct dialogue. This will provide an additional good reason to say – these elections are clearer, cleaner and more transparent, so if you will be freer than ever before. The Serbian Progressive Party, which implements Alexander Vukic's policy, because of this policy, because of its results, because of the success that has already been made, but because of a clear, precise plan to work further, never to meet what has been achieved, but to think about how to do even more and even better, hopes to regain the confidence of the country's citizens. And notorious liars, and encrusted in crime and thieving, such as Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, these accompanying Bosic, Borkic and others, they themselves know best that one single honest vote in the elections would not get, as they will not. So it's either for them to go to the election or not to come out the same. Maybe for some of them who are definitely going to fail financially, but these are the problems they're going to have to live with. They chose their boss to be Gilas, so let them think about the consequences of it. We have chosen to have Serbia and everything that we do and what we do, be managed by the team, and the people know that they appreciate it. The people are much smarter than these tycoons think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67211	Thank you. Once again, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? If not, we move in accordance with the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67212	Thank you. So, as colleagues have already stated, the proposed members of the Supervisory Board believe that with full credibility and professional experience, there will be no doubt that they will respect the rules that they will establish themselves, which will concern their direct involvement in the monitoring of political participants in the electoral process and the media that report and who, of course, are obliged to ensure the equal and even presence of all participants in the electoral process, so that the political parties who take part in the elections can, in an adequate and timely manner, present their political electoral programmes. The Supervisory Board has 10 members, to repeat this once again, half of whom are appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and half on a proposal from parliamentary groups. We have already heard that three out of five are representatives of opposition parties in parliament, those of the opposition who are actively participating, of course, in the work of the Assembly. It is important to say that all the proposed candidates are prominent public workers, that they are not members of the political parties' bodies and that in this respect absolutely respected law, i.e. the conditions under which candidates for the Supervisory Board are elected and proposed. They repeat once again that the formation of the Supervisory Board is part of an inter-party dialogue agreement, from the very beginning as it was discussed at the Faculty of Political Sciences, that it was one of the recommendations of the civil sector, that it is good that before these upcoming elections we form the Supervisory Board, that it is not good that 19 years that this body has not been formed, despite the fact that it is a legal obligation. But I would just add that it encourages the formation of the Supervisory Board is just another result of the implementation of everything agreed during the inter-party dialogue, I repeat once again, not only through the intervention and intervention of the MEPs, but also the agreements that the parties reached during the FPN talks during the summer. There is something left to be done, very little, in order for the electoral process to be fully improved in line with all the recommendations of political actors, i.e. relevant political parties that participated in the talks, as well as what were the recommendations of the civil sector. By the end of the year, we'll be naming the missing REM members by the appointment of three plus two. Today, the deadline has been extended, 23. We will have complete documentation of those who have submitted their applications by 12 December. Then, until the election is called, REM will also make recommendations for public media services and rules on the behaviour of commercial broadcasters. We adopted extremely important anti-corruption laws last week, which also improve electoral conditions. It remains to go and to enforce these adopted laws. And by forming the Supervisory Board, we are practically fulfilling everything agreed and what this parliamentary majority has taken on itself in terms of responsibility, to do until the election is called, and then, of course, during the election campaign. It is a great pleasure and encouragement to show that this parliamentary majority has a responsibility to face problems, to give hands and approaches to talks that were not easy and simple, but we believe that talks and dialogue are the only way to reach a compromise and to find solutions for all those problems that cause political parties who want to participate in the election process. Without any doubt, there is no dilemma that the parliamentary majority has shown this during the inter-party dialogue, but not only during the talks, but also responsible work in parliament, taking responsibility to adopt all possible amendments and additions to the law in time and in accordance with the agreement, committees form, nominate missing members of the Council for Electronic Media, etc. It's not a small thing. I think citizens can also be satisfied with the responsibility that, I repeat, someone has to take and talk and compromise and try to come up with a solution for some of the problems. I only have one more time to repeat that the SDPS parliamentary group in the voting day will, of course, support the formation of the Supervisory Board and all its candidates, in the belief that they will indeed carry out the job professionally and crediblely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67213	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if today was June 3rd or 6th 2016, then this debate, as colleagues from the ruling coalition here say, would make sense. This was the day when this assembly of the National Assembly was established, and that day the Supervisory Board for this meeting was to be established. And so it should have been every assembly of the National Assembly since 2000, since when the Supervisory Board exists as an obligation in the Law on the selection of MPs. We've heard that, unfortunately, it hasn't happened before, or once we've just had the Supervisory Board, and here we are going to have one more time for these elections. There are now a lot of problems about the functioning of the Supervisory Board, and above all about the Anti-Corruption Agency and its competences, because in the end, the question is asked – what will be the responsibility for all those who violate Article 100 of the Law on the selection of MPs who regulate what all the Supervisory Board should do? Which would say, what's here is good and it's high time to form this Supervisory Board. I said, if we had done this four years ago, then we would have certainly talked about candidates, and now we have to focus a little more on this general part and on the fact that there are circumstances under which the formation took place, or there will be a formation of this Supervisory Board. Of course, first of all, I want to point out that the candidate of our SRS parliamentary group is Dr Nikola Žutić and that it really is about a man who can do both this and any other serious job, as he did in his working life. He graduated from philosophy school, he was a doctor of science, published about 35 monographs, studies, collection of documents, history textbooks for the final classes of high school and about 150 articles, contributions, discussions, a large number of books. He worked as a professor professor for the political history of Serbs at the Faculty of Law at the "Nikola Tesla" University in Knin, worked at the Institute for Contemporary History in calling a scientific adviser. So, a man who has both formal education and all characteristics, and morally, he's an absolute man who can be entrusted with every serious state function. We heard here just a moment ago from colleagues, mentioned and mentioned Marinika Cobana as someone walking with a mandate from one parliamentary group to another, I would add to Sandu Raskovic Ivić. They are not the only ones, but they are certainly the same examples of immorality when it comes to the National Assembly and the National MP who can, as under the mouse, put a mandate and walk it from one party to the other. You are well aware of this, but we are asking a question – why won't you accept our proposal to amend this Law on the selection of MPs in that part, that the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees that the MP has the freedom to put the mandate at the disposal of the party whose lists he has been elected, is returned to the law? The bill on the election of MPs is, we will recall, voted in 2000 on the SRS proposal. At that time, absolutely all parliamentary parties voted in favour of the bill and it was a good bill, but suffered several amendments. Two are particularly bad and because of these two changes, this law has been quite lost on its democratic principles since the very beginning. One change is exactly where the DS, through the Constitutional Court, managed to end up belonging to the MP, which is, of course, the absolute opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what can be corrected now. I repeat, only to add to the amended law the position of a member of the Constitution that the MP may have the freedom to place his mandate at the disposal of the political party from whose list he was elected. The second change, which is also bad, is that, when they proposed and adopted, MPs, after the elections, are elected from a list of parties that cross the censors and in the order in which they were on the list before the elections. That's really bad. You know, it's demoting people who do campaigns. You have one part of the people who are and, logically, that most parties put their party leadership at the beginning of the electoral list, because it is exactly the leadership that will best present each party programme, then people who may work very well in the campaign, who are somewhere in the second, third part of the list of candidates, they cannot become MPs although their party estimates that they have worked well, to say the party has a 15% percentage of the votes won, and in one municipality there are 26. I guess that municipality has a certain impact and whoever achieved such a greater result was more valuable, was more agile in presenting the party's programme, but the party cannot reward him to be a member of the Parliament because it has to be respected in advance by some established list. It would be good for you to finally listen to the SRS MP's group once and accept these two amendments. Since October of last year, we offer you this every time the Rules of Procedure allows us to do so. It's not good that you're boasting today that we're finally going to have the Supervisory Board, and these guys haven't had it before, etc. You didn't have it either, gentlemen, and you wouldn't have it now, if it hadn't been for that National Convention for the EU, if they hadn't lined you up, if it hadn't been for all the different people who were running around here, those exhausted European commissioners, and you're listening to what they're telling you. They said the Board of Supervisors must and you accepted. We have no objection to the election of the Supervisory Board. We've proposed our candidate, we'll vote. Dude, it's nothing funny, it's sad. It's sad that you don't know what it says in article 100. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. When she comes to you, Fajon, or, I don't know, the Flankenstein, whoever, and she says, "Go faster to the table, make the decision, take the decision to form the Supervisory Board, then you remember and accept." That's what's not good. It is not good that you removed internal political problems in Serbia from the National Assembly. You see how nice it is when we talk about the Supervisory Board here. Here is the place to talk about the Supervisory Board, and for the other day about REM, and about the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc., but not about the EU's order, but about ourselves, as MPs, assessing what is of interest to political life in Serbia, what is of interest to the development of democracy in our country, to develop parliamentary democracy, to open the debate here and to decide after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67215	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67216	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS strongly supports the improvement of electoral conditions in Serbia and in this regard we will support the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. I can also say that the formation of the Supervisory Board is only part of the overall improvement of electoral conditions. We also adopted several days ago to amend several laws – the Law on the financing of political activities, the Law on Public Enterprises, the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, and not only that, but a fully regulated electoral list, we have the most transparent electoral list so far, training of members of election committees and in a permanent and extended composition, we will select the missing members of the REM Council and all other measures that have been implemented so far or which are in the process of realization. Why all this? Because we care that these are the most transparent elections, or electoral conditions so far. Because we care that such conditions are that no one, but not a single possible grudge, will have any real objection after the elections, not even those who excluded themselves from the election game, from the upcoming election campaign. Even they won't have any real grudges. In doing so, I don't mean some crazy things, such as banring Alexander Vukic from politics, which he told his colleague Orlic about, or prohibiting Alexander Vukic from performing his post. So, I don't mean that kind of requirement or madness to make some pre-election government, some technical government, as they formulated it, a transitional government just so that Bosko Obradovic or one of them would be a minister or commissioner or, as they already formulated it or declared war or emergency status, so that elections are delayed because they're not ready for elections or anything like that. So we're talking about real demands, we're talking about real elements that will allow this election campaign to be the most transparent so far, and that election conditions are absolutely fair, fair and all that's agreed so far. We in the SNS in these elections expect a convincing victory, we expect a bright victory, and we don't want anything to darken that bright victory that's about to happen. There's something else I have to say, Chairman, we didn't pass election laws. So it wasn't this ruling majority who passed election laws, it was someone else. So, it's the ones who complain about election conditions the most today, that are the ones who passed election laws. I am now asking – how is it that these election laws were once excellent, that election conditions were excellent when they held elections, and today when they were in opposition, nothing is wrong today? How is that possible, and the same laws are at stake? The Serbian Progressive Party, and when it was in opposition, did not complain, so we did not complain about electoral conditions, but we were eager to discuss the elections to run and beat them. So let's beat the dosmans in those elections they called and that's what happened, even though it was media darkness, total media darkness and censorship. We didn't have access to any single media, not a second of one. We had a small media space on one small radio, the Focus radio. That's all we had, but it didn't stop us from doing politics, running for the idea, running for the program, going among the citizens, going to the field, talking to the citizens every day. We offered a program, we offered ideas, we offered politics. One more thing, Chairman, for the very end. There are no election conditions, no monitoring committees, no REMs that will bring them an election victory if they don't have a programme, no idea and no politics, and they don't. Unlike them, SNS has both a programme and an idea and a policy and citizens can recognize the prices in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67217	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67218	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we have been able to see in the past few years what the elections in Serbia and those who are individual, therefore, which are not local elections, which are not together in terms of most local self-government. We had a chance to see what the Bear elections looked like most recently. Bear is a small municipality where we were able to see this example of phantom electoral lists, which after that, not only spends budget funds for the campaign, but is made possible by much more than other electoral actors, even those things that were not within the law. So we had the opportunity to see that a certain Serbian right, which is one SNS satellite party, had access to users of folk cuisine and social assistance from the Medvedz municipality, who then visited these people, offered them money, offered them various help in exchange for voting in the elections. That was documented. These people themselves, these satellites boasted on social networks and in the media, it's generally known information that has passed without any reaction from the competent state authorities. There is no Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data, there is no Protector of Citizens, and there is no Ministry of Interior. So absolutely no one responded to that. The candidates for the list were members of the SNS. And for the registration of some other parties, the money, the counselors, advisers, as already, registered from the party and participated in the election race afterwards, from that patriotic side, as well as some others, from this liberal, pro-European or already foreign political spectrum as electric rabbits in the election campaign. We also had a chance in the Belgrade elections to see more than 20 election lists. We saw it from the Association of Greeks Belgrade, Slovakia Belgrade, gondola, various Roma organisations, everything was there. So, candidates are made up that after all of these groups of citizens, coalitions or whatever, which do not cross the censors, the maximum profit would have the regime's party, SNS, in the spilling of mandates under Donte's system. We had a year ago elections in four municipalities, in Kula, in Doljevac, in Kladovo and in Luciani. Only in Luciani were regular elections, the SNS decided to call elections in these three municipalities in order to have amazing results. Nowhere in any democracy in the world can happen that three separate regime parties take more than 90% of the votes in any municipality. The situation was in Doljevac, where 95% allegedly voted for SNS, SPS and JS. It was similar in Kladovo, where instead of J.S., it was P.O.P.S. It is the current electoral atmosphere in Serbia that no one was aware of, until a dictatorship came from abroad. I believe that the vast majority of MPs didn't even know there was a possibility, i.e. norm in the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, that the National Assembly form a Supervisory Board. We only heard that, only when tutors from abroad from the European Parliament came and explained some things to the ruling majority. Since the summer, since the start of the NGO under the auspices of George Soros to convene pro-European i.e. The pro-Western opposition and party regimes, to lecture them and explain what the elections are, what the vote is, what the counting of votes are, etc. We have had a great humiliation for the National Assembly, which is that the former MEPs have come, hatched, drafted to explain to the MPs, lead the main word in the Serbian Parliament and seem to be a control body for the ruling majority and a large majority of pro-Western parties. This shows that the representatives of the ruling majority, most of the parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, were unaware of these problems and did not know that they had been addressed even though representatives of the SRS had warned them for years, since 2016, that this Assembly should bring in a new Rules of Procedure, that they could not convene sessions by emergency procedure, that there were no more diversified agenda points for one debate, and we had the situation until one year ago, i.e. Last year, when the budget was on the agenda, with another 76 agenda points. Along with the budget that should be the roofing and most important law the Assembly makes. You were blind and deaf to these remarks that were well-intentioned in order to improve the quality of the work of the National Assembly, and then you remembered that when the National Convention on the EU first said it, so you acted as big Democrats, and then later from NGOs, the Open Society Fund and others, to former European MPs, to date as well, from foreign tutors from the European Parliament. This shows that you have absolutely no independence in making decisions. And you're doing this now, not because you think it would improve the environment in which the elections are held, but because they told you to. One more thing. In 2016, we had the opportunity to see that the US ambassador directly influenced the election results. They were, not only in the electoral commission and in the representation of some opposition parties, but only under the pressure of the US Embassy, you put two lists into the National Assembly. It's a list of Ceda-Boyic-Chanak and DSS-Dveri. They didn't have enough votes to cross the electoral threshold and have parliamentary groups, you were under pressure from the U.S. Embassy to do it. So much for democracy, elections, independence, sovereignty and everything else. We had the opportunity, when we talk about media presentation, to see that RTS, which is financed from Serbia's budget, therefore, all citizens are paying it, still paying a subscription to the electricity bill, so one unprecedented nebulise and the withdrawal of money, so that they will then make their own decisions on the selection of directors, board of directors, supervisory board or whatever, political parties, parliamentary groups, have no influence on the choice of the RTS board, no one knows on what principle these people choose, and then promote, of course, according to their editorial policy, they are interested in being the public service of European Serbia and therefore they have taken a particular side in this political division in Serbia. One more thing. No one reacted, nor the Ministry of Culture, nor the Serbian government, nor the Serbian Parliament, when RTS increasingly depicts a map of Serbia without KIM territory. It's become a normal thing for you, and no one's surprised to see it on RTS anymore. Serbia's radio-television, during the presidential campaign, time foreseen for all candidates was in such proportion that one candidate had more time, three and a half times more time than all the other candidates combined. It is, of course, the current president of Serbia. How come you didn't notice something was wrong with our election conditions? RTS and now in its political shows, which are very few, in information shows, cherish diversity. A large number of politicians may appear there, both Vulin and Nebojsa Stefanovic and Vukic and Zorana Mihajlovic and others, but a weak one from the parliamentary opposition, or those who are similar to them. So we can see that there are often parties that did not participate in the elections, parties that are in parliament because of their abduction, i.e. Stole mandates and formed their parliamentary group, and then RTS represented it in an informative programme that some Party of modern Serbia considers something. With what legitimacy is that? There are others, too, who have not participated, absolutely have no legitimacy whatsoever, but for them it is a free time and it gives us the illusion of pluralism on RTS. We cannot really view this as your independence, sovereignty and concern for democracy in Serbia, but only one in a series of fulfillment of foreign dictatorships. You think that because of this, you will approve someone, that someone will be grateful to you, that they may support you for something you do and as far as our internal policy is concerned, and most of all you fear that EU representatives will not direct three hours before closing the vote in Serbia to congratulate someone other than the SNS. And that's why you're ready for all concessions, and that's why they break your spine.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67219	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67220	The Honored Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the formation of the Supervisory Board is one of the conclusions of an inter-party dialogue and a three-member European Parliament delegation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of improving pre-election conditions ahead of the upcoming parliamentary, province and local elections. It is the second such committee in multi-party Serbia to exercise general control over political parties, candidates and public information funds during election activities. As you could hear in the debate so far, this Supervisory Board should have 10 members. Half of those 10 members are proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, appointed by the Assembly on a proposal from the government, and half on a proposal by parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the ranks of prominent public workers, provided they are not members of the political parties' bodies. It is very important to point out that the SNS and this debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia show that it is ready to improve the ambience of the upcoming elections. Everything they've been looking for, from the current rounds of talks, representatives of the opposition, will be realised. This is confirmed by the previous four passed laws, which limit the functional campaign and the use of public resources in the pre-election campaign. The formation of the Supervisory Board is another confirmation that all conclusions with inter-party talks with EU representatives on improving Serbia's pre-election environment will be realised. The time limit is defined as well. We have a situation that part of the opposition, led by the Alliance for Serbia, does not participate in this dialogue, seeking actually an excuse that cannot be found. Because of fears of electoral failure, Dragan Djilas persistently reiterates that nothing has been done, and of SNS authorised representative Vladimir Orlic, we heard that Vesna Pesic also joined him in insulting European parliamentarians. This has offended both EU representatives, ignoring their calls for a boycott in no country to bring any good. It is obvious that the Alliance for Serbia is not responding to anything, because they know that they are certainly losing the election, under any conditions and that is their reality since 2012, since the SNS list led Alexander Vukic. Their goal is to come to power without a choice, and our goal is to work at the same time to improve the electoral process in Serbia, as well as the economic environment. We show evidence of it every day. Is there anything better than opening a section of the Surcin - Belgrade road, which connects the highway from Horgos to Cačka? From Belgrade to Cačka is finally on the highway in an hour. A few days ago, a contract for the construction of the Moravia Corridor was signed and, simply, every day, we show evidence of how much we are changing Serbia and that is why I will support the candidates for this Supervisory Board in the voting day, as well as the other members of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67221	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67222	By running in front of the SRS, Mr. Zutic, the Serbian Radical Party has proved it wants to discuss the next elections, the conditions under which these elections will take place and hold. There is nothing unclear about it, with us still insisting, all the talks, all the proposals must be made in parliament and within the Serbian Parliament. An alternative cannot be sought, as we have seen, by some other objects, by some other institutions that are not intended for parliamentary life, and especially by something called improving electoral conditions. What the SRS has always insisted on is that the laws adopted directly concerning the election and the electoral rules must be respected, regardless of what the objections are and what the objections are, they must be implemented under these laws. Now finally, after 19 years, as this has repeatedly stood out, we are in a position to propose and adopt a proposal from members of the Supervisory Board. Here representatives of the ruling coalition point out that this is the first time in 19 years that the Supervisory Board is formed. It should be a reminder to them. So far, more elections have been held in the past 19 years, which have been held on a regular basis, and for God and have not had an emergency number, and this coalition is, among other things, recognizable for several times in a row, calling emergency elections. Real needs were not in the sense that some critical majority who would support the current government, however, it was the decision of the majority of the present and present, that it should be joined by emergency elections and that, if nothing else, they were an opportunity to form a supervisory board in accordance with the law. The Supervisory Board has some information relating to the monitoring of the electoral process, everything related to the elections, that certain procedures are initiated through the institutions and official authorities of the country, both in terms of punishment and law enforcement. The Supervisory Board personally has no major authority, but it can launch a particular initiative, it can initiate a certain procedure. We are still about having to be all equal in the elections and under the same conditions to participate in these elections. First of all, what concerns these technical conditions that need to be secured, and among them is the collection of signatures. We have a situation, especially now that the elections are obviously on all three levels, both local and regional, and republican, that there is no equality nor equality. The signatures are certified by the notaries, and the notaries, except that they are not in sufficient numbers, they are under direct pressure from whoever is in power and there is nothing to hide. The order on the parties' pool list depends on the time when a sufficient number of signatures are handed over and the list they hand over to the coalition is declared. In such conditions as they have been so far, the chances of those who act out of the opposition being highly ranked or highly positioned on the assembly list are very unlikely. Because I say again, there is a lack of notary, there is a lack in the physical number of those who are in front of the notaries, because notary offices can do that and especially when we have instructions from the authorities. And that's what some of the local elections have shown, and we can imagine and assume that this is going to happen when the elections are on all three levels. It's already at the very beginning of the handicap for the opposition. The elections need to show how successful the power was, how much it did, how much it could cost Serbian citizens and how it would plead when they went to the polls. For the opposition, it is a time when she needs to check how convincing she was in her criticism, in putting forward her programme and her political views. Everything else is completely peripheral, I don't mean to say irrelevant, but it has to be taken care of. We have a situation when it comes to the representation of political parties on the media, that parliamentary parties on national electronic media such as RTS are literally experiencing discrimination. There's one rule that everyone knows, from the lies being served in the media, worse is the selective truth, and that's what RTS does, when it comes to information, information programs, political shows, then it's what's already been checked that's worse than naked lies, and that's that selective truth. The selective truth depends on what the government wants, or the ruling coalition. We've heard thousands of times so far as to defend the representatives of the government that they don't have that kind of influence. If you have no influence on why you have taken responsibility for running this country, it is understood that what is financed by this country's budget or otherwise financed by taxpayers, that the government must control on behalf of those citizens who finance it. We have many problems to solve. So we can have as much of a prerequisite as we can to participate in these elections. We have now and here in the proposal for members of the Supervisory Board something that is precedent. Here he suggests a party that didn't participate in the election at all. A party for modern Serbia, or popularly called SMS, I guess because of those messages, so the people will remember. Well, what kind of way is that? How can someone who has not participated in the elections at all not even been registered, now suddenly become a party and this parliamentary party. It shall participate equally and evenly in the proposals of the members of the Supervisory Board. It's out of your mind. No matter what we think of politics, "Enough" they participated in the elections, they became a parliamentary party although there are conditions for them to propose, it would be quite normal and logical. We have bad experience Serbian radicals. Bad experiences in the last twenty years, even before when they took away our mandates, when they made us and what they didn't do, declared terrorists and so on. But we do not want anyone present on the political scene of Serbia to experience at least about what the SRS was going through. We fight for democratic principles, for the development of democracy. We do not want the imposed democracy imposed on us by globalists, such as Soros and others. There's no good for anyone in this imposed democracy, remember. Nor for those who sneak in that they are temporarily in power, so they will be spared. Far from it. Not one who has not participated in the elections to be equal and to participate evenly with those political parties that are in the elections, no matter what we think of their policy. You've suggested here, too, that is, given the opportunity. At the very least, we were also engulfed in the cold. The moment you accepted that you were unconditionally fulfilling all the tasks that EU parliamentarians are giving you. It's something that warns every normal man who thinks well of his country and his people. If you are fulfilling their orders now and moving the election date as the Prime Minister explains for May 3rd, the question is whether it will be held on May 3rd. A question that will be used by the next force and force to extend it. Thank you very much for your understanding, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67223	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67224	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you well know the respected citizens of Serbia, and you SNS MPs headed by Alexander Vukic have been conducting the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia for several years. So, in addition, we tried, and we achieved some part of it, because this process will continue to modernize in the field of education, in the area of health care, in the area of infrastructure, building highways, roads, regional roads, and so on, and so on, we intend to restructure, and more, we have implemented the financial consolidation and started modernising the state administration. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we will not implement this modernisation of the state administration, so the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will come in turn, so here is the Supervisory Board, although our political opponents have not formed it for 19 years, and they could, and it is known why they did not. There are some suggestions from the Supervisory Board. It is very important, some believe it is not, and how important it is in the procedures of holding elections. He's doing community surveillance. For what? In procedures, it is very important, political parties, candidates and public information funds. As Honorable Doctor Vlado Orlic said, 10 members, one half appoints the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the other half suggests parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and counterpart Orlic cited them as such. Unfortunately, those looking for the Supervisory Board didn't propose here today. When it comes to this little part that isn't, it's a small part of the opposition, that's what I call them. He is indeed, those of the Alliance for Serbia, they do not have voters behind them, who boycott and do not need us, respected citizens, to be very concerned because they boycott the elections, nor should we be so interested, because you have seen them since the beginning they are not interested in the elections, but they are interested in the power, without a choice. How? Well, down the street. Well, why the street? So because they have experience from October 5, 2000, the same people exactly the same, the same Dragan Gilas, the same Vuk Jeremic, so I don't keep counting them and so on. What is very important when we are at the October 5th that they are preparing next year, they are preparing it to be, October 5th, it entered Serbia's history. How? Two basics. The first basis is that it is the second biggest blow to parliamentaryism in Serbia in general. Why? Because during the first election round of 2000, Vojislav Kostunica did not win the election, and Slobodan Milosevic did not lose, and there was no other round. The question is, what would happen? They have already set fire to the National Assembly, beaten Dragoljub Milanovic in front of RTS, and that is the second biggest blow in the history of the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia. When you see them individually, their work résumés, Dragan Gilas, called in Europe, why are you jigging? Because it's signed as a jicas for Europe, and Gilas is in Serbia. And you remember, respected citizens, when he was mayor of Belgrade, he entered politics as an ordinary golly, and left his post and now here he is with 619m euros. He's interested in it. He's not interested in the election. He bought the MPs and formed the party now. I will especially hope to talk about it tomorrow and the dates where he met with them and individual centres of power from abroad. And be ashamed of him. I'll talk about it another time. Let's see who else is there. Janko Veselinović. Someone said, "I think fellow Orlic today - who will vote for him?" Well, that landlord called, so he steals apartments. The family won't vote for him either. He started some kind of trade association. He should have seen his accounts while he was taking refugees to the AP Vojvodina area. Dusan Petrovic, you know what he's famous for? The people of Capca know 10%, they call him, and otherwise they call him a cow-killer. He was a minister of agriculture, 250,000 cows gave to be slaughtered for one year by a total fund of 500,000. Right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? And now the Huška Zelenovica, the unfortunate Zelenovic, who accuses his country and his country all the time abroad. Is that what a German, Austrian, French politician does, U.S.A.? It's them, respected citizens, working against our country's interests, and I really don't have a problem telling them that. Next, Zoran Lutovac, called a stray. Citizens recognized him that this man was not only for politics, not just for citizens, but also for his within the Democratic Party. Indeed, since he's a fellow professor, I really advise him to intend politics, it's not for him. I already told Dragan Gilas. Bosko Obradović, a.k.a. chatter, and we talked about him all the time. You know, how did he get into this National Assembly? Through the chimney. And came to the attic and pressured the Republic Election Commission. Remember, respected citizens, when you watched the transmission on RTS? That's how that man came. And this is the truth, let the gentlemen of the Dvora tell me, it's broken, it's broken by an MP's group, and his party has broken. He can't gather the main organs of his party. And now there is no way out, and normally rather than to tear down state organs and buildings around Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. Let's move on. Someone mentioned Marinika Tepic today, called the shepherd, as Professor Seselj said, I call her truly a doozy. She goes to bed in one political party at night, and the next day she wakes up in another political party, and otherwise, Dragan Gilas's electric rabbit, as soon as he, with his finger, jumps, spits on the state of Serbia, military industry, according to our military, is our police, and the assignments are from abroad and Dragan Gilas, and she's his laundry lady. Once again, a wise academic named Teodorovic, called the earthquake, appeared. He says I'm calling him a headache because he hates Alexander Vukic, and he's shaking all of his hate and so on. We say we have to shake harder, that's amazing. That man lost his job at the Traffic College, expelled during the bombing, fled to the U.S., and what was he doing there? Let him wonder what he was doing. He came back again and illegally came to Traffic College. Who took it? Who else would rather than Serbia's Turajlic, although after her all due professors would go to the teaching-science council to confirm their names. Therefore, we need to see what he was doing, whether he called it then, in that time, and whether it was valid. I don't want to waste much on him. That's where he came in today, you saw him spit again, and I think it's Fired Radonjic, that rabbit assistant. I'm surprised Professor Rabbit took as an assistant. Well, Mr. Radonjic, called torture. Why? Because he used to torture students, he's doing it today. No one could ever know him from the students his grade had, even the trustee of information couldn't, the rector that I wasn't even talking to the dean. Now, he's cursing the Republic of Serbia, the SNS and President Vukic today. Now, that's the Fired Radonjic. Who's defending him in politics? Let him go to a political party, but you see miracles, respected citizens and you fellow professors, so it's a professor of sociology and teaches students sociology, and it buzzes in his head Communism. He's not a member of the political party, and he's political at the university. The law can't do that. It was only during the communists. So that's the fellow. I'm still not counting. Let me say, however, that this unfortunate Janko Veselinovic, because he is implementing politics both Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas, as he said on September 11, 2019. He thinks the election will pass, we won't get them, and we'll invite the police to the streets and the army. He thinks the election will pass, we won't get it, and we'll invite the police to the streets and the army. I quote, after the boycott, ask for new elections, a direct turn of the military and police to the side of the Democrats and against the regime. It's a finished quote. Dear citizens, this same Janko Veselinovic did so in 2000 on a proposal from US intelligence services and some European states. That's how President Milosevic was sent to The Hague, and today he sits in this National Assembly by some who have done it. Unfortunately, they don't sit today, because they come once a year. Among them are all those in the Alliance for Serbia, because it is DS in various variants. In the end, we, respected citizens, won't worry much, we'll go to the polls and solve the problem. The problem is that it will lead, for them a problem, the SNS leader of the party, Aleksandar Vukic, who, unlike them, is a large Serbian neimar. Is that true, ladies and gentlemen, MPs? So, a major Serbian reformer who has reformed Serbian society in the last eight years, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. A Serbian statesman, unlike them. They are ordinary politicians and politicians, and he is a true Serbian statesman, a great Serb patriot. Is it true, respected citizens? Above all that, the great patriot. The people would say that when I was younger -- President Vukic builds and defends, in two words to say it, and what they intend, that film will no longer be seen. No one's stopping them from going to the polls, but the problem is they won't get votes. Finally, Your Honor, the SNS will vote for the Supervisory Board, as well as my smallness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67225	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67226	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has shown that it is ready for dialogue at all times, including in the election process, or on improving electoral conditions. We, for negotiations at the Faculty of Political Sciences and later took place in the National Assembly, delegated the most SNS officials, presidency members and members of the main board to represent the SNS and to discuss proposals for a better election process. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic is now at the head of the Working Group, which was formed by the Government, which deals precisely with improving electoral conditions, and we have already had some laws on the agenda here in the Assembly, which are precisely on the negotiations for certain amendments and additions, i.e. amendments and additions. Today, we also have a proposal for the establishment of a Supervisory Board to oversee all relevant institutions and all actors in the electoral process. Therefore, the National Assembly has fulfilled its obligations in this interparty dialogue. The selection of REM members is also under way before the relevant Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly. This surrounds the story of meeting all the recommendations made by ODIR and regarding the election process. This strengthens not only our credibility when it comes to elections, but also contributes to strengthening our international position, as both the Council of Europe and the European Commission rely exactly on ODIR reports. I would also like to say that we expect these days, in accordance with normal practice, to receive a report and an OSCE observation mission, namely ODIR, to assess the monitoring of parliamentary elections in Serbia. What I want to remind you of is that this is actually the first time the Supervisory Board was formed in 1997 under the old law, and the last time it was in 2000. The goal is, of course, always an additional kind of control of all participants in the electoral process, and now we have those who have had opportunities earlier to form such a Supervisory Board with such competences, but are neither 2003 nor 2007 nor 2008 nor 2012. They did not propose to form the Supervisory Board, and they had a majority in the Assembly of those who are now hating us and criticizing us. It should also be said that not everyone in the opposition wanted to participate in these talks, and it should be said that they have passed those laws that do not suit them now. The question is, how is it possible that these laws were good for them then, and now they're not good enough to carry out a quality election process, and how was that right then that there was no Supervisory Board, and now they're criticising it? And today, they are, of course, boycotting a session of the Assembly to discuss the formation of the same Supervisory Board they were looking for. So, what else do you say, other than hypocritical and unserious? It is clear that these demands are actually aimed at seeking alibis for their non-election. Both CRTA, and representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, and "One of five million" and Zoran Zivkovic and all other experts now say that these changes are only cosmetics, and these were their demands at these talks. Under these conditions, the SNS participated in the elections and won both 2012 and 2014 and 2016. Aleksandar Vucic won the 2017 presidential elections, and in 2018 there were elections for the city of Belgrade. To remind ourselves, the Law on selecting Members of Parliament was passed in 2009. The local elections law was passed in 2011. The Law on the financing of political parties is from 2003 and later in 2008, and the Law on the financing of political activities was adopted in 2014. Under those laws, the SNS went to the polls and won. Why? Because they are not crucial to us and crucial to change and supplement, but to support the people. We, of course, respect the laws, but we also have the support of the people. We are not afraid at any time to check the election will of the citizens, because we have results. Everything is on our side, and work and results and support of the people. We here represent the strongest and biggest political party in Serbia that has a programme, which has a plan for Serbia's development and we look forward to showing everyone how much support we have for Serbian citizens and we will show that in legitimately held elections. That's why we're in favour of everything being transparent, because we have nothing to hide at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67227	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67228	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Dear People's MPs, on the agenda we have a selection of the Supervisory Board. I think it's one of the compromise solutions, but certainly good for improving election results and electoral conditions. I believe that the task of the Supervisory Board is very important, which is that it conducts general supervision of the procedures for political parties participating in the electoral process, candidates who run and who are on election lists, as well as the means of public notification, i.e. media, public opinion in the overall process of holding elections. I would add that one of the next tasks of this Supervisory Board would certainly have to be to monitor a general situation that would precede the elections that must be held in the spring of 2020, because the constitution requires it, to monitor who and how it tries to prevent one part of the electoral body from going to elections. It is also essential that the Constitution guarantee the right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia to choose or be elected and I believe that it is a harsh violation of all our election laws and the constitution itself, if anyone prevents anyone from going to the polls. Why do I say if he's stopping? Those who call for a boycott of the election have no way on social networks, above all on Twitter, announced or indicated their intention to behave on the day of the election so that in some ways, it can be believed, to try to prevent voters from coming out and voting at some polling stations. How they're gonna do that, I don't know, but some of their statements can suggest something like that. Who are they talking to? Which is the target group they are calling for a boycott of the election and not just a boycott, I say in every way possible to participate in preventing others from going to elections. They've already started to stick everywhere they get their "boycott" stickers, etc. Who knows what they'll think of working there before the election and the day of the election. Now, that has to be taken care of. Who is this target group, to whom they send a message, who are their potential contemplators, who appear at all at their meetings, who gives them support, who could be the one who rudely violates all our laws and constitution and tries to stop anyone from voting? I think it's mostly the former members of these parties and the factions that came out when their parties fell apart, etc. These are the dissatisfied people with the results they've achieved in the last election. They've lost a lot, they haven't won anything, they're wandering, they don't even know what to do next, they don't see a way out of that situation, and so on, they're the ones in the front lines that walk, strike, block institutions, etc. Then there are company employees, i.e. companies owned by various tycoons run by these parties, and then poor people have to be fired, listen to their bosses, so they can be present at these meetings. Then there are dissatisfied people for various reasons. We have to admit, there are some. They are dissatisfied with their former authority, dissatisfied and, perhaps, with their current authority, they have the right to be dissatisfied. There are some of them. We don't say they're dishonest, they're bad, but for some reason they're unhappy. And they can be the target group. There are those who are dissatisfied with their position after the change of government in the past elections, because they won nothing. You know, when they say, "Oh, where am I?" They thought they had everything, and they had so much, they suddenly lost, and they're nowhere in this new, let's say, story. And they can be that target group. But even though I've made this division pretty rough and don't mind me if I'm wrong about it, there's one part of that target group that I'm particularly interested in and I want to pay attention to. These are young rebel people, students, above all, who have the energy and the desire to create, have this youthful energy, have the desire to participate in creating political life in the country, but have not defined themselves politically, are not members of any party, not one political party, they have just begun, students are young, etc. Someone told them -- well, come on, now you can make those wishes of yourself, those aspirations of yours by going into some kind of protest, into some kind of blockade. I won't list the cases, we've had them recently. They're educated young, intelligent people, but I don't think they've been properly defined. They are not members, most of them, not members of any political party, but are under the influence of political parties. They want change, they have the energy to change and lead, if necessary, but somehow they haven't found themselves in all of it. Here, I'm sending them a message that there's room for such people in the SNS, because if they're young, brave, smart, talented, combative, there's always room for such young people in the SNS. All of their ideas, and perhaps those that we disagree about right now, can be realized if they actively join the SNS. Because if their ideas are good, our local committees will certainly get the proper attention. For a while these people, these young people, can take on more significant positions, functions, etc. I invite them to join the SNS. If they're worth it, if they're combative, etc., one day they can lead and create that policy of ours. The door is open to everyone. Do not let some Bosko Obradovic or some Dragan Gilas or others prevent you from going to the polls and having your Constitution guaranteeing your right to choose not to. Who has the right to forbid you and even convince you to go out and vote in the election? If you're unhappy, okay, and it's human. Come and make your ideas come true together. Maybe those are your ideas that you have more quality than those we now have. Come on, let's do this together. It's better to go to the election and choose than not to go out. A scam called the "white leaf" once cost a party a lot. Well, learn from those mistakes. If someone double-crosses you now and you don't go to the polls, someone else will choose power and tomorrow you have no moral right to criticise, to be dissatisfied, etc. I think it is the task of the Supervisory Board to take care of which of the political parties is propagating the boycott of the election, which thus puts pressure on voters and prevents them from exercising their rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67229	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67230	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for SNS democracy means the rule of the people. The promotion of the democratic process certainly for the SNS was not questionable at any time. We from the SNS, and I think to anyone else who understands the political system, well knows that there is no other form of power on this globe, and it concerns democratic form, since the elections. That's what SNS has never run away from, because for SNS, the Supreme Judge of all that political parties are doing, and we ourselves, are just showing citizens a democratic path, a pencil and paper at the time and when it's time for the election. Of course, there is no question of respect for SNS for the Constitution and the law at all. The SNS firmly adheres to every letter and constitution and law and, of course, respects it. After 20 years, the Monitoring Committee for Monitoring of the Campaigns in Printed and Written Media and, in general, to monitor the campaign that will be implemented at the time of the elections is being re-established. It is, of course, for every commendation and authorised representative of the SNS, Mr Vladimir Orlic, has already said that of the five candidates proposed, three are from the opposition's order. What I have to say is that we previous sessions, and in order to improve the electoral process, have brought in a set of anti-corruption laws, but in particular I have to look at the voter list, that it is now absolutely arranged, that there is an electronic database when it comes to the voter list, that every citizen can check whether or not he is in the voter's list by just one click. Those who boycott the work of the national session, how many days exactly, know that my colleague and count them – Aleksandar Markovic, they don't really care about the citizens. Because if they cared about citizens, they would be here in the National Assembly, at least for those citizens who voted for them. By not coming here to the National Assembly, they insult and humiliate their voters in the most cruel way possible. I hope that's clear for their voters. Why are they looking for a boycott of choice? Well, because they cannot come to power in a democratic process. They only care about the government for one single reason, because the register of the republican budget is full. They're interested in money and they'd like to get their hands on that money somehow, because for tycoons and the yellow tycoon company, robbing the state register is their only policy. Apart from that policy, they have a policy in relation to the citizens and they do not have, they have other policies, which are street policy, violence policy, hanging policy, rape policy, women violence policy, target drawing policy on the president, President Alexander Vukic's chest, a policy of drawing work camps for workers, decent people of the Republic of Serbia. Of course in the election they don't stand a chance. In the recent history of Serbia's political scene, a statesman, patriot and reformer appeared, that is Aleksandar Vukic. Serbian citizens have shown this in the presidential elections, giving him huge support of over 55%, Serbian citizens believe in work, diligence, results of work and responsibility. That is why those from the yellow tycoon company and the Alliance for Serbia have no chance in the upcoming elections. The election is decided by the people, and they vote for the best, the politics of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67231	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67232	Thank you, Chairman. Today, the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board is on the agenda. Otherwise, it is one of the demands of the opposition to the newly completed inter-party dialogue, which was on December 12th and 13th, with the help and intervention of the European Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's one of the demands. Of course, here's what we're talking about today. The second requirement was to improve the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, REM, by appointing three plus two members. Of course, gentlemen, you'll get two more members. The next request was for the elections to be held as soon as possible, with due respect for the Serbian Constitution. Of course, gentlemen, and we'll hear it from you and you just go to the polls, show me who you are, what you are, if you have a program. Here, we're just in two days, three days, we're going to have a program, we're going to represent the programme, from 2020 to 2025, we're going to go see what we're going to invest, how we're going to do. That's how the responsible government works. By the way, congratulations, today was the opening of a new route of 18km from Surcin to Obrenovac, so that it will arrive from Belgrade to Cačka within the hour. Speaking of favors to the opposition, we went out to meet them, we'll go out to them, whatever we want to give them, so it's just democratic, the SNS is known for it. And I would ask the members of the Supervisory Board what they think about the abuse of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, that there was an attack on the journalists of Pinka, that there was an attack on the journalists of RTS, that it was an invitation to rape our prime minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, that there was an invitation to the link of Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, that it was the defilement of his entire family, what do they think of it? How will they plead? What's he gonna do when, God forbid, one of these, what's his name, the SZS, yeah, I mean Bosko Obradovic, starts tearing down boxes, hitting people who work there? So I ask them to be calm, to be bold, to be dignified. Otherwise, my esteemed colleague Vladimir Orlic said that out of five proposals from members of the Supervisory Board, three will be from the opposition. Well done, that's the way it's done. Now let's go and remind ourselves of what the opposition has done to us. We have a program. We have the results of the work. We build, we have 350 kilometers of highways behind us. We've got new stripes, we've got a fast track to build. We have a 9.5 unemployment, a historical minimum. It was 27% in 2012. We hired 300,000 people, they fired 400,000 people. If I don't keep counting, I'm gonna need all day. Let's see what the SZS does, or the Alliance for Serbia, as they call themselves, and I think it's an alliance for themselves, that is, Gilas' alliance. "One out of five million," they say, I say one in 50, come on God. Let's take it in a row. On 17 March 2019, this SZS or one of 500, protesters pushed out RTS security, broken glass, damaged car. During the invasion of protesters in the RTS building, the protesters were on all floors, as well as on the roof of the building. One of them walked through the Public Service building with a chain saw, and you remember a phantom on his head. The damage was done at the front door and all possible windows, and one vehicle was damaged. The head of security then called the police, and I say, no casualties. This is a material damage, this can be compensated, and what about employees? What did they survive, stress? How are we gonna make it up to you? How did these people work? They didn't work, they didn't work for five hours. Let's move on. He says this way, Mr. Bosko and the protesters blocked the entrance to the City Assembly, clashed with the living wall of women, and took down the protective fence on the square. You remember, they came across poor women, just because they didn't make a regular appointment, they would be accepted by Mr. Mayor, also by Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic and Mayor Zoran Radojcic. If they were normal, if they had made an appointment, it would have been a reception. Like this, they start beating up those poor women, and women like women, normal, dignified, refuse that attack. It's an honor to them. And not only that, they had little to do with it. After they were defeated, they went to the Square of the Republic, and broke that fence. You remember that sign-boxing thing and they went to REM. That's where they ended up. I guess they're tired. Now we're going to do something even more scrupulous. Brutal insults by Vuk Jeremic at the expense of Ana Brnabić. The leader of the People's Party, Vuk Jeremic, again collapsed on Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. He called her a slut. Watch out for the look on your face, the one that's gonna be called Interpol's APB. God, was his common sense, I wonder? Brnabic's reply was by reminding him of his earlier predictions that turned out to be incorrect. Namely, Jeremic went with brutal insults over the prime minister's statement that Finance Minister Sinisa Mali would not leave the government because, as we all say, the annulment of his doctorate is a political decision. Of course it's a political decision. The man is an expert and needs to stay in the government as long as he wants. After this hooligan, says Mr. Jeremic, a red Interpol warrant will be called one day, so he talks to the lady. He's a great gentleman, it's an honor to him. This will happen at the detailed request of the Special Prosecutor for High Corruption, beware of the man established after the regime's fall. Well, the regime will never fall, and maybe not then. It won't be saved by foreign citizenship or any other lobby. Shame on him. Dvori leader Bosko Obradovic again called for the attack on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic on the show "Requestor" broadcast on RTS when he was visiting. Remember that? The misery and misery of the human race. Let's move on. Jeremic called again – we broke through the media blockade, but we won't go to the elections. They're not really clear to me. Here, we'll meet all these demands. They broke through the media blockade, but they won't go to the election. You know why they won't? They don't have a program, they don't have anything, but with these scenic behaviors, brutality, to show. There's a lot more to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67233	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67234	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Sapca and respected citizens of Serbia, the Supervisory Board we are currently discussing is extremely important and shows that this government and this assembly of the National Assembly want to do everything to ensure that elections are the most transparent and that everything is done and implemented in accordance with the law. All those laws we voted in this month, and this year, and all these years, from 2012 to today, have just served to bring in different segments and lead to improvements in the segment of political action, economic aspects, budget stability, financial stability, but also political stability. One more step, just as we heard from our colleagues, no one wanted to set up for 20 years, and there really is no valid reason for that. This legal obligation is important, but it also obliges those who are on that committee to make their decisions right and to comply with the law and to contribute to the quality of the elections themselves. What this Supervisory Board won't be able to do, which is to help those who aren't helped. That it is those of one part of the opposition who are calling for a boycott of the election and who are actually calling for a boycott of common sense that there is no help, because they're about not going to do what they want. It's the Alliance for Serbia. To be fair, this same alliance has not even participated in the elections and all opportunities will not take part in this, but among other things it is their democratic right, and in accordance with this democratic right let them act. What is good change is not cosmetic, changes are essential and will contribute to making this election process the best possible, i.e. being implemented in accordance with the law. What they are concerned about and why they call these changes cosmetic is precisely that in the background of all these demands is the requirement not to participate in the elections by Aleksandar Vucic, which is simply not possible, because it is not fair that there is a man who has 55% in the elections, probably more citizens in Serbia, and that no one who at this moment brings to Serbia everything that hasn't happened in 20 years, may not have been combined since World War II here, and it is happening at this very age and shows that everything that has been in some plans can be implemented even in action. New roads, new bridges, new investments, new schools, new kindergartens, but what is even more important, a new future for Serbia, that is the future of Aleksandra Vukic, that is Serbia's future. What is important, I will repeat, and that will end, the Supervisory Board will have the support of all those who care about justice and the best of choices, and those in this Assembly are the majority and whatever they do, there is only one choice. On the one hand, the thieving opposition of Dragan Gilas, the opposition of his puppet theatre, where no one knows which task he will have of the dolls tomorrow and what new they will come up with in their power to challenge the policy of results and politics of the future. Every morning they come up with some new nonsense, and I think it's about time we stopped responding to threats, blackmail and fiction from that small group of people. So, the choice, on the one hand, is Dragan Gilas and his thieving association, and on the other hand, the man who leads the SNS, but also the state of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. The citizens will choose and I hope to choose the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67235	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67236	Dear Vice-President Arsic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's assembly, also came up with a proposal for the appointment of the Supervisory Board. We have before us a proposal from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to select the members of the Supervisory Board mentioned. Serbia's government and parliamentary groups are in line with Article 99 and Article 2. The Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, as authorised proposings, has been sent to us by members for the appointment of the Supervisory Board. The proposal of the Justice Committee for the selection of the 10 candidates below I will accept, of course, in the voting day, and I hope my colleagues too. The task of this Supervisory Board is to conduct and monitor the procedures of political parties, candidates and means of public information during election activities. Half of the 10 members of the board are appointed by the Serbian Parliament on a proposal from the government, and half of them are proposing parliamentary groups with an emphasis on those who responded and responded to President Maja Gojkovic's letter of 6 December 2019. I must note that certain parliamentary groups have boycotted the president's call to respond and propose their members to the Supervisory Board, but it is in the manner of their previous behaviour and boycott work in parliament. The work of some MPs is looked at in their regular visit to the Assembly's register, taking travel expenses, travelling and taking regular journals and, of course, their activity is also seen in the regular holding of press conferences and in their address are inspired by inventions, affairs, defamation of the president, his family, his closest associates of this home and the Republic of Serbia. I hope and I am sure that the Supervisory Board will properly carry out the task for which they have been proposed and that this authority and its president has no reason to run away from everything that makes the democratic elections, because the SNS is sure of its victory because the results are visible in the previous six years. You can see new factories, new kilometers, new schools, kindergartens, hospitals. The proposal for parliamentary groups for members of the Supervisory Board is Svetislav Goncic, actor, Branislav Klasček, producer, Dragan Varagic, graduate traffic engineer Ivan Radovanovic, graduate politician and Nikola Zutic, scientific adviser. The government's proposal is to be a professor. Branko Rakic, a regular professor, Prof. Miodrag Saviovic, Ivona Pantelic, journalist Jelena Milenković Orlic, professor and Aleksandar Stamatovic, opera champion. I also hope for their success in the work, and we will help them anyway to invite our people out and vote for the right party, which is SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-18-0.u67237	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
