ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62604	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, so we have a quorum and the possibility of continuing the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Mr. Alexander Seselj has the word. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62605	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in light of this deviation that is trying to be made in Serbia between the former DS authorities and the SNS authorities, which has been in Serbia for seven years, are mostly putting an accent on the period of robbery privatisation, when Serbia is devastated, when our large businesses have been sold for reasons and below all values. We saw that the Anti-Corruption Council also marked 24 controversial privatisations. So we had cases of "The Iron" returning, after all that could have melted there, melted for one dollar. So, it's trying to create discontinuity between the two parties in power, and then recently we had a chance to see, and it's not the first example, that the IMR from Rakovica was sold for a billion and 100 million dinars. Estimated value 2.9 billion. Now, I would like to hear an explanation from Mrs. Ana Brnabic as it differs from selling sugars for a dinar, how is this different from privatising "Smederevo Iron" and everything else we had the opportunity to see during DS authorities? Well, it's all the same, even that sugarcane still works as a sugarcane. And what about the land, the property of the IMR from Rakovica? So, sometimes an industrial giant who hired 7,000 people, more than 77,000 square meters in the central part of Rakovica, will no longer be a factory, tomorrow will be a shopping centre, tomorrow will be a Lidl, such as Lidl in the former IMT space on Tosha's well, as instead of "dranja" we now have a shopping centre in the part of the Zemun municipality still called the Dragon. So, we're gonna have some parking lots, we're gonna have shopping malls, and that's it. It sells central land in one of the largest municipalities to make tomorrow's shopping malls and apartments. Is that the golden age we live in? Does this show our average salary, surplus in the budget and all the other stuff, that we have nothing to do with our industry now, we don't need to invest at all in getting people to work, now we're missing shopping malls? Then the government in Serbia is able to sell something for 1.8 billion dinars below the estimated price. How is that different from the DS regime? On the other hand, we have a highway that was recently built and released in traffic, Milos Veliki, which was built by a large Chinese company. We saw that it was the pride of Serbia, a ten-hour live broadcast of the opening of that road, a spectacle. Of course, it's an honor, and there should be a highway, making it easier for the citizens of Šumadia and central Serbia and their lives. And then we see the Moravia Corridor, that these Chinese are not so good at all, that it is not such a quality firm, and instead of their 500m euros, the Serbian government will hire US Bechtel for 800m euros. How is the Chinese firm good for "Milos the Great", and not for the Moravia Corridor, the highway Preljina-Sojate? No, but that's what we've already had a chance to see, and that's that there's absolutely no difference between DS and SNS authorities, because these things are still happening and that robbery, in this case 300m euros. Is someone going to answer for that? Is that going to change already? And will such a minister, such as Zorana Mihajlovic, who has obvious dealings with the US Embassy, be more replaced, and then see what else happened in that ministry, what should be taken care of, and where is all the law broken and where is all the money stolen?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62606	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Here you go, Mrs. Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62607	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, today's debate and parliamentary issue will be devoted to the UN organisation and its importance both for Serbia and for all UN member states. In fact, October 24th is considered the day of the establishment of the UN, when in 1945 all five permanent members of the Security Council ratified this charter. The United Nations as a universal international organisation represents a global association of Member States' governments that co-operate in the field of international law, economic development and social equality. Today, this most important organisation is 193 Member States, which are working together to achieve collective and global security. It is important to note that the SFRY was still one of the founding members of the UN and signed the same charter in 1945, and the Republic of Serbia has been members of the UN since 2000 and since November 2000. We contribute greatly to UN activities through active participation in the work of different bodies and specialised organisations, or UN agencies. We are also actively involved in the work of the General Assembly and its committees. Serbia's priorities in the UN are preserving international peace and security, fighting terrorism, protecting national interests in the context of Kosovo and Metohija issues, protecting human rights and the issue of climate change. I would pay particular attention to the efforts and commitment of the Republic of Serbia to achieve the objectives of sustainable development and the 2030 Global Development Agenda, adopted by the UN General Assembly as a continuation of the Millennium Goals. The objectives of sustainable development known as global objectives represent universal action in achieving the 17 objectives set. As I have already said, these 17 Sustainable Development Goals are based on Millennium Goals, but they also contain new priority areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, global peace and justice. It is important to say that these 17 objectives are interlinked, because success in the realization of one lies in achieving and overcoming the challenges of all others. Ensuring the objectives of sustainable development and realisation of the 2030 Agenda – Partnership of Governments, Civil Society, the private sector, citizens, in order to ensure a sustainable improvement of life and respond to global challenges in general. As far as Serbia is concerned, I would like to commend the establishment of an inter-resor working group for implementing the 2030 Agenda, chaired by Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. In this regard, I would also like to ask a few questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic – how does the position of the Republic of Serbia in the context of the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and what strategic documents have been adopted by the Government, as well as what national sectoral documents will be adopted in the coming period in order to achieve globally set targets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62608	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you certainly know that every singer, even a low-ranking singer, when she goes to a European country to perform at any bar, has to report that performance, she has to pay taxes. If he's not a resident of that country, he has to pay taxes both there and here. So my question to the IRS is this – is it N1 TV, "New S" and TV called "Sport Club", and there are more, there are a dozen, do they have a tax number, PIB? If they do not have a tax number, my question regarding the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance – how they pay labour, how they pay suppliers, how they pay any tax liability to the Republic of Serbia when they do not have a PIB, i.e. The tax number, who does their tax liability register? How can their suppliers even use their previous tax unless they have a PIB? So, it's a wild television, pirated, which for years in the Republic of Serbia pays nothing, and in the meantime TV "New S" appeared, and their rates go to sports clubs, which broadcast commercials, broadcast on the advertising market for more than 20m euros a year, avoiding paying any tax, as seen, and the tax administration should determine that from the lack of a PIB, tax number, which records the payment of those obligations. So, by doing so, we can determine that these are illegal, not registered, cross-border television, foreign television, which are intended to create a media landscape and affect political opportunities in the Republic of Serbia. Even in previous elections, they participated in political marketing. Imagine if we started some television in Serbia and Albania rent a studio both in Skopje and start broadcasting a program against the ruling structures in Tirana, in Skopje and we are talking about cross-border television, we are fictitiously registered there in Luxembourg or Serbia, and we have no obligation to you and we can interfere with political opportunities in Albania and Macedonia, that is now called Northern Macedonia. What they're going to call tomorrow, I can't know exactly, but I'm sure they wouldn't let you have your television channels, wild pirates who interfere with political opportunities in Albania and Macedonia, in any other country. That is why my question for the government, the Ministry of Culture and Information is further – what will it do to prevent false, cross-border, foreign televisions from broadcasting pre-election political marketing and a political programme directly affecting the election results? It is called vote theft, except that Ms. Marinika does not know, because she also participates in the theft of votes, by electing and voting for the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, then she took those 15,000 votes, unauthorized from those voters and transferred them to Dragan Gilas, before that to Jankovic, Zivkovic, etc., moved past the election will of those voters 15,000. So it's called vote theft, so foreign television creates political opportunities, affects the election campaign by broadcasting the programme, although these stations are not registered in the Republic of Serbia and do not have a tax number. Also, for the MUP issue -- what will he do against Yugoslavia's Cosic, the organiser of the 16th month demonstration before the Serbian government, where he has raised 150 people, to protest media freedoms, some pressures because someone wrote on the fly that his television was Luxembourg, which he himself admitted? Therefore, the Law on Public Assembly says that the public meeting had to be registered five days earlier. If he did not do so, the question for the MUP – what will he do against Yugoslavia and other organisers for organising an undeclared public meeting, which is punishable under the Law on Public Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62610	Thank you. Now the word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62611	Dear Vice President, I ask the question of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, or the D.A., what will they do about the detestable fiction of the Minister of Interior, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic? From time to time, day to day, we witness continued brutal media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents and his closest associates. These brutal media attacks are an act of mob, tycoon, criminal, political groups from our country and abroad. They aim to weaken the negotiating position of Aleksandar Vukic at the moment he tries to find a lasting, compromise, fair and peaceful solution for our southern Serbian province of KIM. This time, respected citizens, stepped up the intensity of media attacks on the closest associate Aleksandr Vukic, Interior Minister, Mr Stefanovic and his father, Branko. Alliance for Serbia supporters, led by Dragan Djilas, in a people known as Điki Mafia, faked Russian TV's contribution "Rasa Tudej" in an attempt to accuse Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and his father Brank of co-operation with jihadists. Their goal was, by spreading this brutal installation, to convince the public that the Republic of Serbia is arming members of the ISIS terrorist organisation in Yemen. The footage titled "The Father and Son Arming jihadists", which was reportedly broadcast at the mentioned Russian TV station, was supposed to mislead viewers that Serbian Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and his father Branko were linked to arms smuggling, as their photographs were literally mounted on the original contribution as well as a fake title in Serbian which supports this disgusting invention. Not only that, respected citizens, their installation is the conclusion that Russian state television has accused the Republic of Serbia of arming terrorists and telling Serbian authorities it will not survive for long. When the published material, which "Rasa Tudej" really broadcast, it showed that there was no word in it about Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, nor about his father Branko, nor about the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you can see how those of the Alliance for Serbia have countered false news and repacked video material and inserted into it a picture of our police minister Stefanovic and his father and led to the delusion of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, precisely when the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr Medvedev, visited our country and signed very important agreements for the Republic of Serbia. This is not the first time that these Alliance for Serbia have done this before, so every time our President of the Republic of Vucic has very important meetings with the world's statesmen. Thus, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, in a nation known as a member of the international group of bandits and thieves and frauds, in the authorial text of the "Washington Post" in the most harsh way, insulted Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia before his own encounter with the US Vice President, with Mr. Pens, and thus stabbed him in the back of Republika Srpska. The same Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international group of thieves and frauds, accused the country of Serbia and President Vuk Vukic of spreading stability in the Balkans on 17 July 2018, as President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic met with President of France, Mr Makron. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, such montages and disgusting lies, inventions, such as this one, will be increasingly common in the future, especially when talks on Kosovo and Metohija are intensified. It's good, respected citizens, that you've read them. They're all thrown into a political past that they'll probably never come back from. In the end, let me quote once again the esteemed Svetislav Bashar, who told them about them on 21 May 2019 – it is a self-administrative community of crooks and thieves, finished the quote. He's right, because this fake installation shows they're really like that. May God help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62612	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Now the word has been given by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62613	Thank you. After several of these terms, when I was talking about the current, directly current things, we now have one that I've talked about here many times and I've hoped would be taken off the agenda, if nothing else, even after visiting Russian Prime Minister Medvedev, as well as everything that's been happening with our Eurointegrations and in the world, or in Europe in recent weeks. Unfortunately, it's not like that. It is, of course, about Kosovo and Metohija and it is about who knows which way about the inappropriate statements of our top state leaders regarding this most important national and state issue. The issue otherwise goes to the address of the Prime Minister, the foreign ministry and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. It concerns the latest statements by the president of the state to the Vienna "Standard" which has been transmitted in our media, and I, for the sake of precision or certainty that it is not a misunderstanding or a misquote or perhaps a malicious quote and a hint, which it also has, when it comes to our media, regardless of which side, which side, position or opposition they are rooting for, therefore there is and therefore I took it directly from the SNS site, although the media have also published the exact same formulation. So, on the SNS site, there is a statement, namely a confident interview by the president of the Republic of Vienna "Standard" in the performance, or in the interpretation of our state agency, or I don't know what to call, "Tanjug", i.e. His current status, which is said to be – Aleksandar Vukic has no recognition of Kosovo within the current borders. That's two days ago, and I took it off tonight, so tonight it was taken over from the SNS portal. In a tweet accompanying the news, that is, the interview said Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic ruled out the possibility that Belgrade recognises Kosovo within the current borders. It's that old formula, that old phrase. For example, we cannot recognise Kosovo within the current borders. I suppose the idea of that, because at first I thought it was a misunderstanding or a slip or gaff, is probably the idea of going in the direction, or supporting this demarcation project that is both vague and problematic and unconstitutional, and the President himself has repeatedly said that even nobody offers it to us or that at least no one offers it officially, and apparently there have been some conversations. So it's in itself quite problematic, not quite, but a terribly problematic thing. We will not recognise Kosovo within the existing borders, you are indirectly saying that there is an opportunity to recognise it. Unfortunately, there is a supplement in this interview, that is, in this news, as it conveys it, I say, even, in addition to everyone else, the SNS portal, and he added, it is said, that I quote -- where it is unlikely, watch this, that Belgrade will recognise Kosovo at all. When asked – will Serbia ever recognise Kosovo as an equal member of the international community, Vucic answered that it is a difficult issue for Serbs, not only for the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the government or the state officials of Serbia, but also for any citizen, but I say – first of all for state officials and this should not be a difficult question, nor could the answer be – that is a difficult question. Of course this is hard to come by, but if you start, if your top civil servants talk about how they will not recognise Kosovo unless, if possible, etc. you, as I have said more than once, and the public must hear it, to understand, I am sure that the public and understands, rather than the one who has the opportunity to hear these things, thus lowering your otherwise not great positions and actions in these talks or negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. It's like in a business, like in a store, like anywhere, when you start from it -- I won't, unless, like, so on and so forth. And in advance, you're justifying yourself, you're talking about changing your constitution, it's difficult for him to change, it seems like a cheerleading, and it seems like some kind of public preparation, a domestic public for such an unconstitutional and unwise trade that, as we say, nobody even offers. With that in mind, I would like to conclude, I would like to note, that even during the last visit of the Prime Minister of Russia, Russian Prime Minister Medvedeva, as today, this morning, the Ambassador of Russia to Serbia mentions Resolution 1244 and says that it is the only international framework for resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems, but our state officials seem to forget it, i.e. as soon as Russian or as the meeting with Russian colleagues is over, they simply overlook that fact and in this interview, of course, a long interview of course does not mention Resolution 1244 anywhere. So it looks only when the Russians remind us, then we think of it, and when the Russians leave, we go back to the way we were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62614	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 11.00 hours. So, in about 20 minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. I would like to welcome Minister Djordjevic with his associates. We are moving on to a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. We move on to a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government No. 011 – 2679/17, as of 26 September 2017 and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of dual-use goods submitted by the Government No. 011 – 3341/18, of 26 October 2018. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the sittings of Minister Zoran Djordjevic with his associates. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of the Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening joint initial searches on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on General Product Safety and Proposal for Laws and Amendments to the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose. Do the proposing representatives want a word, i.e. Minister Zoran Djordjevic? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Please sign in. Mr Branimir Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62616	Thank you. The respected chairman and respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, co-workers and colleagues, the Act on General Product Safety is one of the laws governing the transport of goods on the market. The country's task is to secure a stable and supply market, but it is also important to ensure that consumers are certain in some way that products they buy on the market are always safe. The aim of this law is to ensure a high level of protection of consumer health and safety, whether it is personal use products, whether or not we are talking about products used to perform certain professional activities. So far, the law concerned only final products. These amendments to the law will also cover those products without which final products cannot function. I'm going to say just one example, and these are the products that are subject to frequent controls, such as toys for children. Toys for children are controlled as a final, final product on the market, but from now on they will be controlled, for example, by batteries running that product, whether they are safe too. We recently passed the Law on Trade, as a central law that regulates the transport of goods and services and thus improves consumer rights. We promoted them because we protected them from the potential intentions of merchants to lead them constantly astray through sale or seasonal declines, so we prescribed that there are only two reductions during the year, winter downturn, summer downturn, and we prescribed what deadlines for these two reductions are, and we also accurately determined what sales are. And this product safety law sort of regulates this area because it concerns misleading products. The proposal for a general product safety law aims to reduce traders' intention to deceive customers with their products. The same applies to manufacturers. The proposal for this law prohibits the production and placing on the market of misleading products and prohibits the export of such products. Now a special member of the law determines that a misleading product is the non-food product, but which, by its appearance, packaging, smell or other characteristics, can resemble a food product. So we have now clearly defined, or more precisely, what these misleading products are that can have a negative effect on a sensitive group in our population, such as children who can often be led astray and cannot distinguish these two types of products during use. Consumer expectations are always that the product will be reliable, will work in a safe way, will be without risk to the health and safety of the one who uses it and will not harm the environment. Precise legal norms are narrowed down to the possibility that dangerous, unverified or misleading products appear on our market, and hence, the possibility is narrowed down, or the likelihood of adverse consequences affecting the safety and health of users of these products. It is very important for us from the SDPS to adopt laws that protect consumers first, to improve their rights, but this law on general product safety, in addition to protecting consumer rights in a way also applies to producers. The safety of the product implies that materials, components and the entire production process are in line with the prescribed requirements, so that the final product is safe. This is why the competitiveness of a company is closely linked to its ability to produce a safe and quality product. These are just some of the requirements that today open or close the doors to businesses, not only on the European market, but also on other world markets. There are a whole range of different requirements to be met in order to guarantee product safety, depending on the type of product, for the purpose, of the target group to which it is intended, from the environment in which the product will be used. Manufacturers have to take care of all this. I'm going to give an example that's not from our area, it's from the U.S., but it shows how a failure in the procedure can cause damage to the company itself. A few years ago in the United States it was ordered to withdraw from use all cars that had airbags of a specific manufacturer embedded in them. Namely, the manufacturer then missed, or failed to comply with the request and made sure that airbags in conditions where there is high moisture, do not meet their role, on the contrary, have a opposite effect. It was then found that 16 million cars around the world had such equipment, and cars were withdrawn only in the United States. It is therefore important that producers comply with the prescribed standards from the beginning of the production process, as they will only be sure that the product is safe if they comply with all the criteria in the procedure. The application of this law will also have a significant impact on the prevention of unfair competition, as this establishes clear and equal rules for all manufacturers and traders regarding the production and distribution of products to be safe. It is good that we accept the standards of developed European countries and adopt EU rules. We have so far adopted a large part of EU standards and technical regulations, and in this area we have made quite good progress. Product safety and free flow of goods are exactly the principles on which the EU market is based. Control over enforcement is an essential link in the quality infrastructure system. The proposal for a general product safety law lays down the jurisdiction of the market inspection for this area, but the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection is also specified when it comes to misleading products. To take measures and penalties by inspection services, the aim should be to eliminate those producers and those distributors that reduce the prices of their products and the fabric from the market to spare manufacturers and safe traders who take account of the safety of products placed on the market. Data from the field show that the most headaches are given to consumers in Serbia in the first place by technical products, furniture, clothing and footwear. I'm going to give an example of a few years ago that was in the media, that the girl in Nis was injured by wearing ballets, not knowing that there was a danger that the metal that was hidden in the sole of the ballet, which she didn't know could hurt her. It is therefore important that inspection services exercise as much control over that slave used by children as possible. This law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law, allows us to make more available to the public information regarding the security aspect of goods. The exchange of information on dangerous products is one of the priorities for the establishment of a security market. For many years in the EU, this idea has started since 1987, there has been an information system for monitoring, reporting and exchange information on products that pose a risk to consumer health and safety. This fast alert system, i.e. for rapid warning, bears the term “Pissant” and I will say something about it. The ‘Rapeksa’ is that a database is established on non-safety products that are updated every minute, at the end of the week a report on what products are insecure, which pose a serious risk to consumers, which is the nature of that risk and which are taken to eliminate safety risks. Surely no producer wants his name on this list, because this means that products will also be on the blacklist, and this further causes the withdrawal of these products from the market, re-examination and therefore additional costs. Based on the example of Europeans, Serbia has formed a system for the rapid exchange of information on safe products, its name is "NEPRO", it would be good for citizens to learn as much as possible that there is such a system, inspection services are already of course familiar with it, and it helps them greatly. Its objective is to rapidly exchange information in the confusion of competent authorities in order to take measures to prevent the risk of non-secured products emerging on the market. In order to highlight the importance of information and information to citizens on safe products, I will provide several examples, because the purpose and these exchanges of information, one of the goals is for manufacturers to be responsible, that manufacturers themselves are pulling non-secure products from the market when they see some irregularities. For example, the US car manufacturer Ford called off 490,000 vehicles in 2012, as a technical error was discovered that could cause a fire or loss of engine power. A year before that, a German car manufacturer had prevented 120,000 cars from being sold because of a filter error. A few months ago, a Swedish car manufacturer pulled out of the market over a million vehicles, because it was discovered that there was a material error in making up a engine where the engine could melt and cause fire. In this way, both manufacturers and distributors have shown some responsibility and have reacted in time to avoid endangering customer safety, and I state them again, as a reliable example and as an important example of information being placed in public, or information exchange systems. Today we are also discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose. These amendments shall include the erasure of provisions relating to the control of imports and the issue of licences for dual-use goods. However, the amendments do not apply to the erasure of definitions, such as the concepts of importers and exporters, and thus retains the obligation of the businessmen to keep records of their business and of imports and exports of dual-use goods, and thus allows state authorities to control their business. Otherwise, Serbia is currently the only country that is issuing licences for imports of dual-use goods and is therefore another reason to follow the trends in the environment and to abolish this existing provision. By erasing the provisions of the laws that provide for it, we will disburse the economic operators, because they will not be burdened with administrative affairs after these amendments, such as collecting documents, filing requests, paying taxes, waiting for permits, and this is just waiting for one process that takes about a month. In this way, savings are achieved both in money and savings in time, and on the other hand, we will give a positive signal to investors to invest in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62617	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is Anna Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62618	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, are present today before us the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on General Product Safety, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export and Import Act on Double Purpose. First of all, I would like to point out that the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support these two draft laws in the voting day. Serbia is on the way to modernisation, which through constant investment in digitisation as a very important factor for development, and through the promotion of electronic trade for market development, as well as through the different procedures and laws that are present today, as well as at every other session ahead of us, which completes the legal framework in order to protect Serbia's citizens as effectively as possible in any way. The safety of the product is only one of the many requirements that are needed today to open the market for manufacturers, both in the world's markets, and of course with us. There are a whole series of requirements that need to be met when we talk about product safety, start with the safety of all parts of products themselves, as well as the final product that is delegated to consumers. It is important to note that these amendments and additions to the General Security Act aim to improve consumer protection mechanisms, means all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but will not create additional restrictions on freedom of movement of goods. This law prescribes the application of the obligation of manufacturers and distributors to place on the market exclusively safe products, which in any way will start with product characteristics, as well as the risks that products may pose to consumers and users, as well as the activities of the measures taken by the State if any risks arise. In this way, space is significantly narrowed down and the possibility of unverified, dangerous, misleading products appearing on our market, and thus the likelihood of some adverse consequences for the health and safety of consumers and other users. For us from the Socialist Movement, the aim is to protect citizens of Serbia in each segment, to provide the service that is provided to them and to make the product distributed according to all standards, but also to create legal frameworks that will allow smooth supervision and improve in line with the latest experiences on the market. It is important to note that the market is rapidly developing, that it is efficient and effective in every sense and that there is a great risk when we are talking about the distribution of all product types in general. What is important is that this law also allows for the rapid exchange of data, so that a certain product availability on the market can be banned very quickly. What is also important, is that when we talk about product safety, they will prevent unfair competition, so a framework is being created in which manufacturers will not be able to lower prices in order to at the expense of product quality, but they will have to comply with certain standards above all. So by lowering the price, they won't be able to deceive the citizens of Serbia, or all those users of the product. We also have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of double-use goods. In fact, Serbia is one of the few countries in the world, the only country in the region that continues to issue import licences for products, which significantly destimulates all those who, from the EU, as well as others who want their products to be found on the Serbian market, but also our businessmen who have to wait for certain import-export licences. This law significantly encourages more efficient business for our economic operators, but also allows for more efficient work by the authorities of the state administration, which have so far had to issue many permits to import products, which means that they will be relieved by abolishing these permits. The government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to encourage domestic businessmen in every way possible, but to become more competitive for investors and investors. The adoption of laws ahead of us facilitates business, speeds up business, creates a more efficient, more economic environment for all those who want to invest in Serbia and Serbia's market and thus certainly increases the standard of citizens through the increase of citizens' salaries, but also through the opening of new factories, new jobs, investment of foreign businesses, etc. We can't expect any immediate changes, but it's important that we have positive small steps and move towards improvement in all spheres. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62619	Thank you, Mrs. Karadzic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr. Ministers with their team, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, discussed at the 51st session in the principle of these two draft laws and this proposal for a law on amendments to the General Security Act of products, as well as a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of the dual intentional goods. What is most important in terms of the General Product Safety Act is to amend and supplement the General Product Safety Act's proposal to support the free flow of goods on the one hand. On the other hand, it provides a high level of safety protection for consumer health, as well as environmental protection that is of public interest. The flow of goods shall only be limited in those cases. The basic principles of supervision include the communication of the supervisory authority with the economic operators. Any surveillance must be balanced to a good extent and the required extent. The proposal for this law also specifies communication between market surveillance authorities as well as economic operators. In the further part of the law, during the amendments, a precise division of competences between the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, i.e. market inspections, has been carried out on the one hand by the Ministry of Health, i.e. health inspections, and that is what is most important in the proposal for this law. I still have to say that they change and supplement in the proposal for this law only refers to products that are not food, and with their appearance, shape, color, packaging and smell they resemble food. Food or food in the jurisdiction of other laws. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose, you have already heard, Serbia remains the only country in Europe that controls imports of dual-use goods. Economic operators were exposed to the procedure for obtaining import licences which lasted about a month. Also, they had to pay an administrative fee for issuing these kinds of 100-euro permits in dinar equivalent, of course. Given that certain problems arise, congestion, burdens on the economy and the EU investors to find this difficult to deal with, the draft law eliminates these obligations. In principle, the Committee adopted these draft laws and recommended to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62621	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62622	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, today we are discussing two very important laws in the area of goods and services. These are the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act and the Proposal for a Law on Export and Import of Double Purpose Goods. First of all, I'll talk about the first law. Therefore, the applicable General Product Safety Act was introduced exactly ten years ago, with the aim of ensuring the necessary legal protection of the health and safety of consumers and other users of products placed on the market. This applies to products used for personal use or for the performance of professional activities. The application of this law aims also to prevent the emergence of safe consumer health dangerous goods on our market. We are witnessing that despite everything in the world, but also in our market, there have also been insecure misleading products, whose placing on the market has left negative consequences for consumer health. Today, when both domestic and world markets are overrun by huge quantities of goods throughout consumption, when manufacturers often compete in a unfair way to win the market, they happen to provide their competitiveness with poor quality of their products, but perhaps even more dangerous, insecure products in health. In particular, it was primarily plastic products, which also contain toxic substances. We had countless situations when children's toys that contained toxic and healthy very dangerous substances appeared on the market. It was also about so-called misleading products, tempting especially for children. This has also resulted in the withdrawal of non-secured products from the EU markets for the youngest. It was a children's wheelchair and car seats produced in EU countries, as well as over 700 toys played by children in EU countries, but unfortunately it was also on our market. It is precisely a positive practice of reporting non-safety products that leads to the withdrawal of these products in accordance with EU general product safety directives. At the same time, disclosure and reporting of non-safe and misleading products should ensure more responsible production and placing on the market, exclusively safe products. This is exactly what the European Commission does through a system called RAPEX, which publishes weekly reports on reported products that pose a serious risk to consumer health. These reports also contain data on the type of risk and measures taken at European Community level, i.e. countries from which producers are from to prevent these risks. Serbia is not in the RAPEX system, because it is not an EU member, but as a candidate for EU entry, by adopting a General Product Safety Act, it has incorporated the right into our national legislation, which allows for better protection, control and a transparent relationship to the general safety of products on our market, whether domestic or imported. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act, which we are discussing today, we can say that the amendments resulting from the obligation are further harmonisation with EU rules in the area of product safety, for the personal consumption or performance of professional activities, but also from the observed shortcomings in the current application of the law. Namely, the amendments and additions to this law that we are discussing today are further defining the concepts of dangerous and misleading products and prescribes legal obligations for manufacturers, but also for other market participants to be able to place on the market exclusively products safe for consumer health. Also, these amendments decidably prohibit the production, export, import and traffic of misleading products. Finally, whether we are an EU member or not, we have a duty to our citizens to prevent the production and transport of dangerous and misleading products that threaten the health or safety of our citizens as consumers. We especially need to be sensitive to the misery of our children, to whom bought toys can become a danger to health and safety instead of contentment. This is the primary reason or one of the reasons why we support amendments and additions to the General Product Safety Act. When it comes to the second law, which was proposed in today's search, the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose, as colleagues have already said, Serbia passed this law in 2013 to prescribe the conditions of transport of these highly sensitive goods and to bring this type of traffic in line with the EU legal system. A double-use slave under the law is considered a commodity that can be used for both civil and military purposes. Goods which may be used for non-explosive purposes, as well as goods which can be used in any way to spread or manufacture weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, it is a very sensitive product whose imports, i.e. exports, are very important to control but also make it possible. What is significant, the law has established a strong system of control and supervision in the areas of exports and imports of dual-use goods, in order to achieve and protect the defence, security and foreign-political interests of the Republic of Serbia, its international credibility, as well as to ensure respect for our country's international obligations. The applicable law is in line with European legislation, as well as international standards, but at the moment of the law, we felt that we should not put an end to the control of imports of these goods. What my colleagues have already said, and I will repeat, when the law was in the works, were also involved by EU experts who, and at that time, advised us to coordinate immediately with regard to the control of imports, which was an obligation from European legal acts, under the circumstances that in the meantime the Republic of Serbia remained practically the only country in Europe that controls, or issues licences for imports of dual-use goods. It was necessary to approach the amendments to the laws that we are discussing today. In the current application of the law, it has been noted that the process of obtaining a dual-use import licence has additionally burdened economic operators with complicated administrative procedures and by collecting a large number of necessary documents. This time that requires the collection of paper, as well as the fees paid, has significantly reduced the competitiveness of our businesses. The position of foreign investors that invested in production capacities in our country should not be ignored, and in this way they were quite destimulated, as they happened to receive export licences from EU member states to be exposed to additional costs and to wait for the permission of the competent Serbian authorities for the import of these goods. I believe that amendments and additions to the Law have greatly facilitated this situation and that this will improve the situation on the market and therefore MPs of the SPS Group will support both of the laws proposed in today's search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62623	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. Now the word has a People's MP, Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62624	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we heard in today's debate by colleagues from other parliamentary groups before us today are two very important draft laws in the area of trade, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on General Product Security and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Export and Import of Double Purpose Products. It is common to the two draft laws that public debates have passed and that all interested parties have had the opportunity to make known the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Also common for both draft laws after adoption will not require any cost from neither the Republic of Serbia's budget, nor from citizens, nor from the economy. On the contrary, it will actually affect the cost reduction. It is important to note that the bill's proposals in the function of harmonising our Serbian legislation with EU legislation, i.e. the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws, are in the function of fulfilling our commitments and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as the arrangements of our economic relations with abroad, as well as the arrangements of our domestic market. When we talk about economic relations with abroad, Serbia has indeed got something to boast about today. It seems to me that in recent Serbian history Serbia has not had better relations with abroad, and when it comes to the economic relations with foreign countries as they are today, it speaks to a huge number of our president's meetings with foreign officials. President Vukic met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel 17 times with Russian President Vladimir Putin five days ago with Russian Federation Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev, and more than 20 agreements were signed on that occasion. One of the agreements referred to the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway line, a section from Valjev to Vrbnica. Then on September 10th, the Czech Republic President Milos Zeman visited the Republic, and the Belgraders gave a magnificent welcome to French President Emmanuel Makron, and President Vukic met with Chinese President Si Jinping six times, and this is a large number of visits. Why do I mention these visits? Because they are of exceptional economic importance to Serbia. During each visit, during each meeting of our officials from other countries, a huge number of contracts, agreements, a memorandum of understanding concerning the construction of infrastructure, concerning the construction of a factory and the creation of new jobs, have been signed. We have indirect benefits from visiting. In 2018, Serbia visited a huge number of foreign tourists and we reached a record in 2018, in 2019 we do not stop, we will beat the 2018 record and by the number of foreign tourists and by the number of nights achieved. So the picture of Serbia has changed significantly in both the region and the world. You know, when Russian Federation Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev tells you that Belgrade is unrecognizable from 10 years ago, it means that you have done a lot for both the capital and the entire Republic. This means that you have stabilised public finances, which means that you have successfully implemented reforms, which means that you have increased the standard of living for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Each year, the Republic of Serbia's budget increases dramatically. Only if we look at the budget of the city of Belgrade and compare 2013 and 2020, in 2020 the budget of the city of Belgrade will be twice as high as in 2013. It's a huge shift. All the cities in Serbia, all the municipalities, all the local self-government have done something good and achieved for the citizens of Serbia. Only if we look at the city of Nis, the town of Nis has got six new factories. It will soon be opened, i.e. in the first half of November, the eastern arms of Corridor 10, from the town of Nis to the border with Bulgaria. On August 18th, he was released into the work of the highway "Milos Veliki" and that part from Obrenovac to Preljina in the length of 103km. On May 18th, we also released the South Leg of Corridor 10 through the Gredile ravine, which was almost unimaginable in 2012. They didn't build a mile or a highway. With works and the construction of travel infrastructure, it doesn't stop because the government of the Republic of Serbia knows that when the roads are good, there are new factories for us, there are new investors for us, there are even more foreign tourists. The IMF and the World Bank predict that Serbia will be the country with the largest economic growth in this part of Southeast Europe over the next three years. The IMF has remained in the projection of an economic growth of 3.5% for 2019 and in the first nine months I want to point out that the surplus of the republican budget is 49.9 billion dinars, which is for 63.2 billion dinars more than expected and planned. By the end of the year, public debt will not exceed 51.3% of GDP, while public debt moved to 76% of GDP in 2012. Since one of the two draft laws that we are discussing today concerns exports and imports of goods, I would like to point out that we have made a huge shift and when it comes to exports when it comes to import. We have export and import growth, and it's important that our exports grow faster than our imports. It is also important that imports of 74.3% are covered by exports. Also, the structure and exports and imports have improved. When it comes to the structure of exports, the products dominate, several stages of processing compared to five or six years ago when the highest percentage of the participation in exports had primary products, these are now products of several stages of processing, and in terms of imports, Serbia today imports technology and equipment. That means we're opening new factories and hiring people. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act, the law adopted in 2009. As I mentioned at the very beginning of the presentation, the Law is amended to fulfil the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Namely, our experts, in co-operation with EU experts, propose amendments to the applicable law in order to increase the level of general consumer and consumer safety of certain products. The key news is a ban on production, transport, imports and exports of misleading products that appear to endanger consumer safety and health. The law defines what a misleading product is. A misleading product is a non-food product, but with its appearance it resembles a diet. I'm going to make a practical example. So far, we've had a situation where the school supplies used by our children, say, pencil wipers, are made in the form of fruit trees, lollipops, so there were children swallowing such rubbers and there was asphyxiation. In order not to do so, the law defines what a misleading product is and prohibits such a product from being found on the market. Therefore, all products must comply with Serbian standards that are harmonised with European standards. The law also provides for co-operation and continuous communication between competent authorities and economic operators. The competent authorities are scheduled to notify the European Commission via RAPEX. RAPEX is otherwise a system of information about dangerous products. Therefore, the competent authorities are obliged to notify the European Commission of all measures and procedures taken, when it comes to abolishing the prevention of the placing on the market of a particular product. The competent authorities are obliged to address all complaints received by consumers by consumers and other stakeholders regarding product safety and to inform consumers of the measures taken. Therefore, the aim of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act is to protect consumers. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law define the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, and in particular the jurisdiction of the market inspection. Therefore, the law sets out the responsibility of the Ministry of Health on the one hand and the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. The application of the proposed changes and additions will greatly affect the prevention of unfair competition, and thus we will have a greater inflow of both domestic and foreign investors. So, when we stop unfair competition, of course, economic operators will be much more interested in investing and opening factories and expanding production plants. The law will have immeasurable effects for both consumers and producers of certain products, and trust will be restored, i.e. trust in our Serbian products will increase when it comes to food products. In the case of a draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of dual-use goods, the bill aims to reduce the costs of operators importing dual-use goods. In fact, the law provides for the abolition of the obligation to obtain import licences, waiting for authorisation to be issued and the suspension of the obligation to pay various fees for the issue of licences. I will stress that the economic operators have waited up to 30 days for the authorisation of importing dual-use goods. Otherwise, Serbia is the only country in Europe that controls imports of dual-use goods. We are harmonising the law with Western European legislation, which provides for the control of exports of dual-use goods, but not the control of imports of goods. The abolition of the control of imports of goods will allow for greater competitiveness of business entities operating in this area, as well as the development of micro and small enterprises in this particular area. Otherwise, the government of the Republic of Serbia's goal is for business developmentists in the Republic of Serbia to be small and medium-sized enterprises. It was just the representatives of several major foreign companies, when it came to the bill itself, who drew attention to everything they faced in practice and what problems they had as they were waiting for the import licences for double-use products, while waiting for import licences for goods and raw materials, for the production of dual-use goods. All of the above had a negative impact on the competitiveness of these products in this area. For these reasons, in order to increase the volume of production, thus also exports of dual-use goods, amendments and additions to the laws are proposed to allow for the increased competitiveness of the product. Since today we are discussing the Double Purpose Act, therefore, it is a product that can be civil and military and that can help produce nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. So it's about goods that are closely linked to the dedicated industry. In this regard, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all the members of the Government and the President of the Republic on everything that has been done in the matter of arms and the strengthening of our country's security system. To be clear, the Republic of Serbia is not preparing for war, but the Republic of Serbia wants to preserve its country if necessary. All countries in our environment are armed, both Bulgaria and Hungary and Croatia and Romania, so EU member states are strengthening their security system, each country in line with its capabilities. Not only do we intensively purchase equipment, military equipment, aircraft, but we care about security forces, we care about people who work in the military, the police, the BIA, because the salaries of security forces were never higher than today. On the one hand, salaries have never been higher, and on the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia has passed a law regarding the housing of security forces. The law on the one hand provides housing for people who do the hardest work in our country, and on the other hand, provides that for the construction of these apartments our domestic business entities, or our domestic construction industry, are exclusively engaged. So we're raising our domestic construction industry. How much we care about our country and the security of citizens testifys and the fact that on October 12th, President Aleksandar Vukic set the stone foundation for the construction of the plant of the dedicated industry, which will produce both "Lazare" and "Miloshe" and "Nore". So it's a factory that will employ 80 people in the first quarter of 2020, and in the next two years as many as 300. You know, opening 300 new jobs in Kursumlia is the same as opening 30,000 jobs in Belgrade. Kurzumli and the entire Toplice have always given the best heroes and Serbian president and members of the government the best possible way to repay the Toplicians because they were the first to respond to a call when it comes to defending the country. Previous regimes, previous authorities have bypassed not only southern Serbia, but also north, east, west, all parts of our country, therefore, have not invested anything in any region, in any municipality. While, when it comes to today's government and our government, it equally takes care of all citizens in Serbia, it equally takes care of all the districts. The bullets will be returned to shine and smile after the construction of a factory in the field of the dedicated industry. Citizens will no longer leave their hearths, as they have done so far. They left their hearths not because of our government and Alexander Vukic, but because the previous government destroyed everything that could have been destroyed. Well, in Kursumli alone, they closed over four factories -- and the fashion combination "Sedmi juli", ŠIK Kopalnik, "Metalac companies", everything that could be closed, and the hotel "Zubor" in Kursumliska Banja, everything that could be closed, the previous government closed. Our government opens new jobs and solves the problems of previous authorities. Well, why do the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic address citizens to settle claims from 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009? So because they know that our government register is stable and they know that the President of the Republic, as well as the members of the government, will come out to the citizens to meet to solve their problems, as they have solved the credit problem, that is to say, to solve the problem of the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. Also, another excellent news for southern Serbia is that soon a cornerstone for the construction of the E80 highway will be laid. It's a Nis-Pristina highway and will lay a cornerstone for building a Nis-Ploca stock. The highway will pass through Prokuplje, through Kurzumli and will affect the complete change of picture of this region in southern Serbia, or the Warm End. Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic are equally important and citizens living in Subotica both in Kursumlia and in Belgrade, in Nis, Kralje, Vranja, Pancheva, therefore, in all parts of our country. Three days ago, President Vukic visited works on the construction of a hotel in Vranjska Banja, attended the opening of a restored theatre "Bora Stankovic" in Vranjska Banja. Then, a contract was signed yesterday to open Germany's Brose in Panchev, which will employ more than 1,100 people, where the average net earnings will be over 1,700 euros. Of those 1,100 people, something less than half of them are people with higher education. In Novi Pazova comes MTU, the value of the investment is 109m euros. So he equally takes care of all municipalities, all districts and all citizens in Serbia. While those in the Alliance for Serbia, with a lack of political programme, want us back 86 years, want us back in 1933, by burning books that are of humanitarian character, while they insult journalists, women who think differently of them and calling them the worst possible names, while the president of the state who fights as a lion for Serbia's interests, for whom there is no day that he did something good for the citizens in Serbia, they call himself a traitor, Serbia changes every day, builds and develops. They don't want to see it. Well, they don't have to. They left us a minimum profit of 16,000 dinars, while our minimum earnings will exceed the amount of over 30,000 dinars. They left us an average profit of 320 euros, and the average net earnings in Serbia will exceed 500 euros by the end of December. That is why I sincerely hope that Mr Sutanovac will fulfill his 2012 promise, otherwise, promised Serbian citizens that if the average net earnings in Serbia cross 500 euros, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote, so I hope that in April, it will go to the elections, along with most citizens in Serbia and will vote the Serbian Progressive Party. Indeed, it would be fair and correct. All the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are for the better tomorrow, and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will support both these and all other laws that are in line with the growth of the standard of living of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62625	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) We are moving on to the list of order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the proposals for the law in point. The fourth and fifth agendas. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62626	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the Government, the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will give support to the proposed legislative solutions for the reasons of the laws of direct importance for the citizens. Here, first of all, I am referring to the General Product Safety Act, with special reference to food products. So the question of product safety and food safety in particular is vital to the health of every human being, for the health of the community, or the entire nation. In addition to our obligation to bring these laws into line with European standards, it is even more important for me that it is an extremely important interest of every citizen, especially in times of various kinds of decadent and crisis, we certainly have a fall in standards regarding ethical relations with security in general, especially product safety and food safety. We in Sandzak, especially in Novi Pazar, have had extremely bad experience in recent years with the world of products, especially food, on the market, without declarations. True, we have several bright cases where inspection services have responded well and discovered such attempts. It's about tons of goods, most often via Kosovo, and something from Hungary, that comes to our market. It's mostly chicken legs or Brazil chicken and other products. It's about quantities that are terrifying, even events that have been discovered at the border and thrown out of traffic, but later appeared at dumps and then again at stores. So, it's about alarming warnings where, despite a good legal solution that we're looking at right now, but in any case, we need to continue to raise all the potential, above all inspection controls, in order to really protect citizens from this kind of abuse and this kind of poisoning. It's even food that expired for up to 10 years -- one case we have media reports on, and the inspection was able to detect. On the other hand, for us, members of Islam or the Islamic community, it is of the utmost importance and possibility to standardise Halal products. On this occasion, I would like to say that in recent years we have managed to make extremely important progress in this field. I would also like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Presidency and all government organisations and institutions that have allowed Halal standards in their restaurants and the possibility that both members of Islam and the Islamic community can be fed in their restaurants and thus the constitutional right of equality of all citizens is realised, regardless of religious and ethical membership. Of course, this has been insisted by the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and is one of the effects and our co-operation here in the National Assembly, as well as in all other aspects of joint action. I want to point out that one of the key points of our programme is to devote all our political action to the citizen, man. The man is for us a fundamental, key figure of our entire operation. We have defined the goal that all institutions, regardless of their importance, all collective bodies, from the local community to the state, make sense to the extent to which they are subordinated and committed to the citizen. It is not always easy to achieve, because in the structures authorities always show interest, but it is possible if we keep insisting on it and therefore all political factors will have this party as an ally on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62627	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The topic is extremely important and the topic is in the context of all my multi-year activities related to the ban on genetically modified organisms in Serbia. Given that, I'm asking the question. Since it is said that the Law on genetically modified organisms prohibits the import, cultivation, processing and transport of GMOs in Serbia and that I am alarming the people, please, on 26 August 2016, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, gave the statement "Politici" to eat genetically modified food in Serbia. Who's lying? Am I lying about the ban on GMOs, in accordance with the GMO Act, or is it the untrue Deputy Prime Minister? Secondly, at the presentation of the exposé for the Prime Minister, the candidate at the time, Aleksandar Vukic said, "We will have to launch another dialogue sometime, because these stories of genetically modified food, and every day we eat genetically modified food, and we pretend to be some of the greatest protectors and therefore we can't export anything." So, the candidate for Prime Minister elected Prime Minister, and then in the new election for the president of the state, claims that we eat GMO food every day. Do you know what a cherry tomato is? Modification of the genes of one disgusting animal and one plant and we eat it now and we enjoy it and we talk about eating genetically unmodified food and we're very smart. I don't think Serbia has a chance in terms of GMO food. It is the only country in Europe that is only sufficient in the production of corn and soy as the main components of livestock food, to export all meat, milk and eggs to the European and world market with no GMOs. Why don't we do it? Who is in the interest of destroying Serbian village and Serbian agriculture? Furthermore, by liberalising imports from EU member states, these are data that have been obtained officially, so from 2013 to 2017, the total number of consignments of food and food for animals of plant, mixed origin imported was between 43,129 and 61,827 consignments. The number of samples taken was between 4.313 and 15,327 per year. The number of solutions for the ban on exports and the placing on the market, according to the Food Safety Act, was between 79 and 237. Number of samples taken under the GMO Act for corn, soybeans, rice, rape oil, sugar beet and their products between 2,488 and 4.508. Number of solutions for the ban on imports, according to the GMO Act, between zero in 2016 and six in 2017. When we look at the percentage of samples taken under the GMO law relative to the total number of shipments, it's between 4.3 and 7.2%. What about those about 95% of the shipments that haven't been sampled at all and that have entered Serbia? How can citizens be sure it's health-safe food? They're just food security reasons. But, as you can see, in this year, our colleagues published a book, in London, in English, a famous publishing house for scientific monographs "CEBI", about GMO food and economic influence, colleague Tatjana Brankov and colleague Koviljko Lovren from the Faculty of Economics in Subotica. If they deserved a renowned publishing house to issue a book, it would at least be desirable to expect the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications to obtain that book and read what our scientists suggested there. Serbia is losing billions on exporting 2.2 million tonnes of corn into grain and exporting several hundred thousand tonnes of soybeans that are not genetically modified, instead of reprocessing and hiring our farms and employing our slaughterhouse capacities. Who is in the interest of Serbia not to export quality food and not to feed our population with quality food?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62629	Thank you, Professor Chevarlic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62630	Just for a little while, Mr. Shevarlic, let me tell you. First, this law has nothing to do with GMOs. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for this and it makes a decision. We didn't even discuss it, we didn't even think about it now, or lead the controversy. I'm more worried about that -- who took 620m euros? Does he still take them today? That is the question, since you have connections with him too, is there any urgency today to be taken from the citizens of Serbia of that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62631	Comrade Martinovic, would you like a replica of Professor Ševarlic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62632	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Mr. Sevarlic cannot understand or possibly understand, but he is pretending not to understand that in Serbia, the law prohibits the production, import and export of food produced on the basis of genetically modified organisms. He, from session to session, suggests that as an addition to the agenda, we adopt the prohibition declaration so-called. GMOs, although in Serbia, as we have mentioned many times, there is a law that regulates this matter. The declaration is not a legal act, it is one political act, it is one declaration, it is an act that does not have and does not produce any legal consequences, unlike the law which, as you know, is a general legal act and which produces its legal fact. Mr. Ševarlic from session to session keeps asking – why don't we produce more, what about our slaughterhouse capacities, what about our industry? That, Mr. Chevarlitch, you should ask those with whom you went to the election together. You should ask someone like the DSS. That's what you're supposed to ask someone from the Dvora. This is what you should ask your colleagues and your friends, your political allies, who in the period 2000 to 2012, and especially during 201 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 practically left Serbia without any industry and the re-industry process in Serbia, we have just begun, better said, by Alexander Vukic in 2012, and especially intensively since 2014. So that question you're asking is legitimate, you're just pointing it to the wrong address because SNS and Aleksandar Vukic didn't destroy any combinations, they didn't destroy any farming cooperatives, we didn't destroy any, as you say, slaughterhouse capacity, on the contrary, some of us opened up again, the ones your friends closed, like "Mitros" in Sremska Mitrovica, and with that policy we'll continue. This is what I needed to say, Mr Milicevic, simply so that the citizens of Serbia would not be confused that Serbia is a state in which imports, products and exports of GMO-based branches are allowed and to remind citizens of Serbia that those who destroyed our agriculture, those who destroyed our processing industry do not sit on this side of the hall, do not sit where Minister Djordjevic is sitting. There used to be people sitting there, Mr. Ševarlic, where Mr. Djordjevic, the ministers you supported and from whose lists you went to the polls, who basically ruined the entire Serbian economy and including, of course, almost all our agricultural capacities. You'd have to take care of that as a university professor, even in retirement. I doubt you've forgotten that fact, but somehow you're keeping it quiet because you're embarrassed to say it. That's why we're here to remind the citizens of Serbia who is who in Serbia and what who was doing when he was in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62633	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Professor Chevarlich, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62634	Thank you. Do I now have double time, a replica to the minister and a replica to Mr Martinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62635	The line always lasts, Mr. Shevarly, I guess you've learned that by now, two minutes. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62636	Two minutes. Then let me answer the lines when I'm looking, not now summed up. So, again I read, we will have to start another dialogue, sometimes, because these stories about GMO food, and every day we eat GMO food and I didn't say that, said Mr. Alexander Vukic, then candidate for Prime Minister, then the Prime Minister, and today the President of the Republic of Serbia, I think he's a man who had better information than I do, whether he has or doesn't have GMO food in Serbia. As far as the questions you are referring to me, gentlemen, I was not in the membership of any government, I was not in any of the parties that were in power, therefore the only person I haven't spoken to in this country since 2002 is Dr. Ivana Dulic Markovic, who had just been the initiator to introduce 50,000 tons of soybean shotgun, from genetically modified soybeans in 2001, as so-called. American help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62637	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62638	I don't know if you're talking to Ivan Dulic Markovic, and it would be good if you told us if you were talking to Dusan Petrovic? Because Serbian agriculture was not only destroyed by Ivana Dulic Markovic, but it was continued by Dusan Petrovic, and it is very well and much better than I know, my distinguished colleague Marijan Risticevic. This Dusan Petrovic, if I am not mistaken, has also funded certain projects to print books and scientific books, or studies, that have never seen the light of day, but you have received that money in not too small amounts, especially for Serbian occasions. What you're always quoting Mr. Alexander Wolf, so tell me what he said wrong? Yes, in Serbia it is forbidden to produce, import, or export from Serbia food produced on a GMO basis. Same as the Criminal Code forbidds someone to kill or steal something, so that happens. This does not mean that Serbia is allowed to commit a crime of murder or a crime of theft or any other crime. So one thing is what is prescribed by law, and the other is whether there are possible abuses in practice. You are constantly trying to deceive Serbian citizens that something is allowed in Serbia that is not actually allowed and that is prohibited by law. Competent inspections and how they control the quality and safety of food in Serbia and control what is produced in Serbia and what is exported from Serbia. I think what you're talking about right now, I don't know that you're doing it on purpose, whether you're doing it on someone's own task or simply do it, so you don't have any other topics to talk about, at a time when Serbia signs and realizes the most significant contracts in the area of food production and sales, with countries like Russia, China, Turkey, you spread false news from session to session, fake stories about how Serbia produces genetically modified food and how we're all in danger. If that's what you're saying, it's just amazing that the fact was not noticed by the Russians, the Chinese, the Turks and all those other countries we're working with in the area of agriculture, but it was only you who noticed it. I don't think what you're doing is good for the general interest, it's not good for the state of Serbia, and above all it's not good for you, because you're saying things that aren't true. You know very well, Mr. Chevarlic, who destroyed Serbian agriculture from 2001 to 2012. You're saying you're not talking to Ivana Dulic Markovic, and are you talking to other ministers who have been sitting in various government offices for the past 12 years? Are you talking to that Milosavljevic? I've already asked you about Dusan Petrovic. Are you talking to those who were regional agriculture secretaries? Gro agricultural production, especially warfare is in Vojvodina. Are you talking, for example? With Goran Jesic? Are you talking to the personnel who were regional agriculture secretaries from LSV? Ask them why and who ruined Serbian agriculture and who brought us back to the area of food production decades ago. It is certainly not SNS, it is certainly not Alexander Vukic, and it is certainly not these people who are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62639	Thank you. Col. Risticevic, you are mentioned during the presentation of counterpart Martinovic. You have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying, "It is better to suffer after the village than to suffer in the country." You cannot express your suffering after the village by putting on a brand-new folk costume from time to time. It is mostly not worn by peasants in Serbia, wearing a few clothes, spoons, pants, rhythmia etc. Someone and a monkey, but the whole costume is only worn by those who come to the show. So these are folklore societies that organize plays, which organize games, etc. And they dress in that folk's clothing. You can't prove your pain for the village and your suffering by just putting on a folk costume and being against GMOs. You might say you're choosing whether to go to Moscow or the Old Mountain, a dilemma. He who loves the village will decide to go to the Old Mountain, to see the result of their agricultural policy, or agricultural policy, which was supported by the one dressed as a folk costume, wanting to represent himself as a farmer. To remind you that the project that was allocated 63,000 euros is from the Old Mountain loan right now, to restore livestock on the Old Mountain, indigenous livestock. But, look at the wonders, the various consultants who dress up today in the folk costume got that money. He didn't go to livestock, he went to consult Mr. President, and I provided you with documentation that was archived, that exactly what I was saying, that 63,000 euros were set aside for consulting services and for printing cooperative studies in 1,000 that had never been published or printed. When you divide 60 and some thousand euros by 1,000 copies, you get that each sample of the study that wasn't printed cost 60 and some euros. For this money you can buy the pieces together with Cosic and Ivo Andric. With us sitting in a folk costume, the most expensive Serbian writer who chose whether to go to Moscow or the Old Mountain, avoided coming to the Old Mountain, where, as the young Croats would say, he took the money. Probably didn't come to his crime scene. When someone says that the declaration wants to ban GMOs, despite the law which is explicit, the law defends, the declaration only gives a statement, you declare that you are against GMOs, and the law explicitly prohibits it and when someone asks for a declaration, bread through a cake and puts on a folk costume, it is a politically modified organism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62641	I thank my colleague Rističević. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62642	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to comment on the claim that this regime did not sell out assets in agriculture, but was done by previous regimes. As much as my memory serves, the Agricultural Corporation of Belgrade is the largest agricultural combination, not only in Serbia, but in Europe. You sold it for 105 million euros. The rest, since you sold only the property, remains an open question as to how land can be sold on state property, contrary to the Agricultural Land Act, i.e. tens of thousands of hectares that were in state property, translated into share capital and sold at around 4,600 euros per hectare, according to some who had calculated. Now one hectare is sold at 38,000 euros in the same year as most of the PKK was sold. All PKK debts remained on the burden of the state. The buyer didn't take over. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Martinovic, you are the president of the Parliament's largest club, and you are voting all the laws. You have voted on the Budget Law all these years, which is contrary to the provisions of the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, because no one year, including this year, including the 2019 budget rebalance, is 5%. Now we can bid whether 50 billion were cut off by farmers, whether it's 60, whether it's 70 or 80 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62643	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the euro course in 2012, when someone in the folk costume was getting coins for the same day for three tranches of 60,000 euros, you have Mr. Chairman, so I ask you, if the peasants were cut off now that 43 billion and 711 million for incentives, how long were they cut off in 2012, when the same rate of the euro was, in the country, living a larger number of inhabitants, and the subsidies in agriculture were 19 billion? Then they weren't cut, because they were coming money from the Old Mountains from the World Bank's loan to the Old Mountain for cooperative services, now they're cut off. He's talking about the PKK, and I'm going to talk about the cooperative he taught. Go find a statement where he condemned the former regime for selling cooperatives and cooperative property. In Vojvodina, 180 thousand hectares of cooperative property were lost, hundreds of cooperatives were shut down, dozens and hundreds of cooperatives were shut down, without a single statement of conviction by the former regime's party. Today cooperatives are being restarted, formed again. The state has singled out 600 and a few million dinars this year to establish new cooperatives, but someone who taught cooperatives doesn't record it in the agrarian budget, it's not an agricultural budget for him. For him, it's just the Ministry of Agriculture, for him it's an agrarian budget or more specifically, for him it's just the dry incentives of the agricultural budget, all that follows the agrarian for him is not the agrarian budget. He forgot, for example, an intervention purchase of 500 million dinar agricultural products, which also went to agrarian, but remembered 24 million missing in the dry division of the agriculture ministry to be exactly the 5%. The agricultural budget with all these items went over 5%. When it comes to the PKK, I have not seen a statement by a man in a folk costume, who suffers after the village in order not to suffer in the country, I have not seen a statement condemning the privatisation of agricultural combinations in Serbia. By 2012, all combined, co-operatives in the Vojvodina territory, with 300,000 hectares for 50m euros and land and property, etc., for 50m euros, the PKK was sold with livestock production by 120m euros, two and a half times more expensive than the total social capital on combined land, etc. He was fine with it, and this isn't right. One more thing, that PKK land won't go anywhere, property was paid, only ownership structure was changed, meaning property. The land remains in Belgrade, a new mechanism has been purchased, a company that is registered is also a Serbian firm. So, it's only changed, it's not the owner, Martin's name is Risticevic, but the PKK isn't ours, of course, but the PKK remains owned by a Serbian firm, because the company that bought it registered in Serbia. What more say you to a man who puts on a folk's clothing and says to the board, "I am going to celebrate the Day of Resurrection." Which Serbian host can celebrate Vidovdan? We can only mark the day with grief and a set, but we can't celebrate it and we can't celebrate it enough when someone celebrates in the people's costume Vidovdan, then you know how much it really is a Serb host. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62645	Thank you. A colleague of Martinovic, you are mentioned during the presentation of Professor Ševarlic. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62646	Anything on the subject of the PKK, Professor Chevarlic, you can ask Dragan Gilas. Dragan Djilas, as you well know, is Bosko Obradovic's biggest friend, with whom you sat in the same parliamentary group until yesterday. As it was at the time of Dragan Gilas, I think you know that very well. But in order for Serbian citizens to know, therefore, when Dragan Gilas, as mayor of Belgrade, managed the PKK so well that in 2010, the PKK recorded a loss of nearly 36m euros, meaning we speak in millions of euros, in 2011, it recorded a loss of just over 18m euros, in 2012, more than ninem euros, and in 2013, it is that if I am not mistaken for the last year of Gilas' rule with Belgrade, he recorded a loss of almost 11m euros. So, why did the PKK go through this during the rule of Gilas and what they were doing with the PKK Dragan Gilas, Miskovic and their business partners, ask Dragan Gilas nicely. You might as well ask Bosko Obradovic, they have become inseparable now. It is now an alternative that is reportedly being offered to Serbian citizens as some rescue solution to the alleged disastrous rule of the SNS. Of course, the citizens will assess whether we are just as disastrous, and whether this Dragan Gilas is such a rescue solution, but about that afterwards. As for another topic you're always talking about, the percentage for farmers. You see, Professor Chevarlic, SNS MPs every day, but literally every day, they talk to Serbian citizens. Sometimes we do it here in the building of the National Assembly, sometimes it's what MPs do in their municipalities and cities. I was here yesterday in the National Assembly building talking to a farmer from Batajnica. (Alexander Seselj: ‘Prince Petrol’. () What did you say, “Princess Petrol”? It's not "Prince Petrol". So, I talked to a man from Batajnica, who came from Benkovec. So, the man was expelled in "Storm" in 1995, so Alexander, it's not "Prince Petrol", Srdjan Knezevic was not expelled from Benkovec. The man told me well yesterday, it never happened in Serbia, what's happening now, that when you buy a new tractor state, you get half the money back. It has never happened in Serbia, and a man has been engaged in agriculture since he was expelled from Benkovac, meaning since 1995, so to this day, he's been engaged in both warfare and livestock, he says he never happened to buy you a new plow and give you back half the money for that plow. Never happened to buy a new combination, and the state paid you back half the money for that combination. That's the story of an ordinary man who's not a member of the SNS, and you're saying right now -- but the state is giving out less money. No, it has never been singled out for agriculture again and has never been singled out for the restoration of agricultural machinery. That's what the data says very clearly. At the time of the reign of these friends of yours, well, remember who could buy a new tractor, except Miskovic, except Zivkovic, except Miodrag Kostic, I don't think there were any peasants in Serbia who could buy a new tractor. Today, peasants can buy new tractors, new sowers, new ploughs, new combines, etc., and know that the state will refund half the money they give them. You're traveling, I guess, to Serbia, just like me, do you see that in every part of Serbia, not only in Vojvodina, in Pomoravlje, in western Serbia, so, do you see how many new tractors in the fields, and that tractor of the world's most modern manufacturers? Until seven, eight years ago, who could own a tractor or a combination like John Dire, except for these great capitalists who got rich on the back of the people, a simple peasant couldn't afford it. Today, any better-standing host can afford the highest quality of agricultural machinery because he knows that the state is helping him. You know that very well. At the time of your friend Milosavljevic's reign, Dusan Petrovic, and everyone else, Sasa Dragina, it simply wasn't possible. Today it's as good as possible. And is it possible that in a year or two we can correct all the gaps that have been going on in agriculture since 2000? Of course not. But that Serbia is taking major steps forward, when it comes to restoring our agricultural production, in all areas, when it comes to warfare, and livestock, and rebuilding the machinery, etc., that's what an ordinary man sees. You can now work as hard as you want to deny the government of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Agriculture and Alexander Vukic, but the citizens of Serbia know very well, Mr. Marjan Risticevic has exact data on the subject, how much a situation is in agriculture, how much a situation for an individual agricultural producer is better than it was at a time when Serbia was ruled by the people with whom you went to the elections together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62647	Thank you. Right on line, MP Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62648	Thank you very much. I did not dispute the increase in the agrarian budget, I only claimed, and in this claim I remain, which was, except in 2004, when it was 4.94%, also characteristic of the previous regime, and for this regime, it was not provided for a minimum 5% of total tax revenues. Secondly, Mr. Martinovic, I was not there when you changed the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development and when instead of 5% for Rural Development Encouragement, you amended the provision of the law and wrote for the Ministry's budget. Therefore, the sum of 43 billion, or it doesn't matter how much it's on the rebalancing, it's not a sum of incentives, it's a total division of 23 or 24 in which it's shown for years, and that applies to the Ministry of Agriculture in general. I do not dispute that the Ministry must provide operating costs to the Ministry for both salaries and material expenses and everything else, but this is not an incentive for agriculture and rural development anywhere in the world. When you exempt it then you see that there are 11 billion missing for agriculture, so that agriculture gets a minimum 5%. We will discuss this more when there is a draft Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget, because for the first time this year we have the opportunity to see all the final accounts of both the regime and this regime. I'm going to give you an overview of exactly the age and that regime and this regime as far as it's cut off. Well, I'll give you an accurate review by age and by that regime and by this regime as much as it's been cut off. As for my views on privatising agricultural combinations and on the state of cooperative, it is really unnecessary to speak. Type in only the name and last name on the Internet and you have so many papers from different years that it is amazing, including the period before 2012, certainly. Secondly, it is not true that only 100 and a few thousand hectares are excluded from cooperatives, cooperatives are damaged for the total state of 1960, until 2012, it is a period between two complete lists of agriculture, because between that, we did not have any signed agricultural signatures of 52 years, a much larger number of hectares. I worked during your regime, you financed me the EU intermediation, that study and that study was published in 2015, bearing the name "Agricultural Land in the Republic of Serbia", so look at the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62649	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you put on your costume and celebrate Vidovdan, our peasants who drive tractors would say, this one mixed water and oil. So, cartoons, the engine's blowing up, so let me explain it to you. He said he just split up the agriculture ministry 43 billion. Be careful, former professor in the folk costume, a member of the Committee on Agriculture, who chose whether to appear on a board in the Old Mountain among peasants or in Moscow, chose Moscow, for it is better to suffer after the village in Moscow than on the Old Mountain to show that pain. Here, here, to inform him, that he divided the farm 54 billion and 614 million, and he just claimed that it was 43 billion and 711, here it is, divided the farm into 54,614,663,000, here, he just claimed. Imagine a member of the Committee on Agriculture who doesn't know what the division of the Ministry of Agriculture is, and direct payments and subsidies, meaning what farmers get on hand are 43 billion and 711 million, plus 640 million for cooperatives, plus 500 million for the intervention buy-in and plus 100 million from Abu Dhabi's loan to agricultural irrigation systems. Now you tell me if I'm right when I say so? Whether there were any convictions, say Tito's youngest councilman in Belgrade, who lived at the time in Chačka, imagine when he was talking about cooperatives. In 1974, the communists took over all the cooperatives. If I were a member of that party, I'd rip out my book and say, "I'm giving up the youngest of Tito's councilmen and Tito and Krcun and all of them." But only he did not give up communism. He gave up communism only when communism failed. So he didn't condemn the disappearance of cooperatives. I have to inform him that in 1989, we pressed Anta Markovic and passed the Co-operation Act to bring back the cooperatives from the combinations. He didn't take part in it, he taught cooperatives at times when cooperatives disappeared. Someone show me his picture before 2012, in a folk costume and a statement where he condemns the agricultural policy of Sasa Dragin, Petrovic and so on, and I will publicly apologize to him. There's no such statement. So you have a project, a consulting project on livestock in the Old Mountain without livestock, where 63,000 euros are taken and I gave you these documents so that you would no longer dispute. I've shown them here three times in public for reviving livestock on the Old Mountain. And when the time comes to come to the Old Mountain as a member of the Committee, you reject it, you who celebrate Vidovdan in the folk costume, you refuse to come among the peasants and tell them where the money is being distributed for livestock on the Old Mountain, but you go to Moscow, mix the numbers, you do not mix, but you do not know how much the division of the Ministry of Agriculture is, and you are a member of the board and a former professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62651	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62652	Professor Ševarlic has an obvious problem with percentages, i.e. he manipulates those percentages in a similar way to that of the 7% famous percentage of the Vojvodina budget, which was manipulated by people such as Bojan Pajtic, Nenada Canka, Aleksandra Jerkov and who year after year accused the central government in Belgrade of allegedly not giving up 7% for the AP Vojvodina budget, while completely ignoring both the budget revenues and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina budget. When you talk about percentages, Professor Chevarlic, then you have to take care of what the budget is, what the budget revenue is today, how much the budget revenue was in 2018, in 2017, all the years in which we record the budget surplus, and what was the amount of budget revenues at the time when the people you went to the elections with, how much was the budget of the Republic of Serbia at that time. So 5% of the budget figures from the Dusan Petrovic era are not even close to 5% of the budget figures you have today. That's what Marijan Risticevic expressed to you in absolute numbers. On the other hand, it is somewhat and tragic for me that you, as a former professor of the university and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, do not know how much he has divided into the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry. But aside from that, you don't have to know every single figure in the budget, but what you need to know is that the state of Serbia today is making a lot more money, so I'm talking in absolute numbers, but at a time when it was in power that you went out with. (Marian Risticevic: It is 130%) Here, Marijan Risticevic tells me that it is 130% higher if you will in percentages. So, 130% more of Serbia's countries today stand out for agriculture than during Dusan Petrovic, Sasa Dragina, Milosavljevic, Dragan Gilas and all others who have ruined our agricultural production and not just agriculture, but the entire Serbian economy, the entire Serbian industry. We cannot go back today, in addition to all the efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, in addition to all direct investments, and domestic and foreign, along with hundreds of thousands of new jobs, besides hundreds of new factories opened, cannot return to the 1989 level. This tells you about the extent of the robbery that took place in Serbia from 2000 to 2012. The little economic substance that remained in Serbia during the 1990s, which was a difficult year for Serbia and the Serbian people in general, were years of wars, sanctions, bombings and so on, but also a small economic substance that remained during Slobodan Milosevic's rule, which is why they broke up yours, stole it, put it in their pockets, and therefore Serbian agriculture is in a difficult state today. It's better than it was, but it's still a tough situation. We agree on that, but the difficult situation cannot be overcome in a year or two. It will take us many years to become fully competitive with the countries you mentioned, with EU countries, but we are already much more competitive on the European and world market than almost all countries in the region, than almost all countries in the Western Balkans region. That says enough how much the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, that is, Alexander Vukic, and as Prime Minister and this current government have done to improve the situation in Serbian agriculture. So when you're talking about percentages, Professor Chevarlic, just don't let yourself get into the same logical mistake that Pajtic, Canak and Aleksandra Jerkov have, and always compare numbers expressed in percentages with absolute numbers. These absolute numbers tell you a lot more than your percentages. They were hiding behind that 7%. To them, 7% was a fig leaf. This should be remembered by citizens of Serbia, especially citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The fig leaf was 7% to hide the robbery of Vojvodina citizens directed by Bojan Pajtic, directed by his regional secretary for science and technological development, who gave money to their similar entrepreneurs, and these returned to them in coffins, water syphons, etc. So these percentages were fig leaves for robbery, and we are now giving you absolute numbers that are very clear to you how much progress Serbia has made during the rule of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62653	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has a representative of the promoter, the minister of labour, employment, martial arts and social affairs, Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62654	Thank you. I have a few questions. Mr. Chevarlich, we know each other from an earlier period, when you were dealing with agriculture seriously. I would like to ask you a few things about how small the budget was 130% and not to go into absolute values, what the budget went to, whether there were those who abused at that time and were given to fuel and how and how it was abused, you probably know and Marijan Risticevic knows best how and how this subsidy went from that budget who it was and was who it was. What's another question for you, and you know it, is who did the land go to then? To whom was land leased agriculturally in Serbia? Who received subsidies for this land, what was the subsidy? That's all of that budget. You know what we established for this land in 2012 – that it was not processed. Is that right? When we were supposed to rent and process, is it true that five years of this land is due to the non-employment of that land in the past, and they got a grant to process it, five years must be treated for different plants to recover what it has, which is the quality of that land, in order to bring some yields. I'm a farmer's layman, but I've learned so much. I know that we had this problem and I know that the state of Serbia had not only the negative consequences of the DS rule until 2012. Unfortunately, their spirit remained after that, for five years after that we suffer damage because we cannot treat this land properly. Is that true? Thank you for saying it's true and it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62655	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62656	Thank you very much. I think it would be best to publish a table on the National Assembly or Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Finance for all years since 2004, so here, how much total tax revenues, how much they amounted to, how much they were the assets of the agrarian budget, or the means of incentives in agriculture and rural development, and how much the total revenue of the budget for that year, since we have now and final accounts, concluded with 2018 and then it is easy to establish percentages. Secondly, we would do well to see how many registered agricultural holdings per year, total, how many of them have registered plant production, how many fruit plants, how many livestock holdings, and see where these holdings are missing, and why. I will, you have my study which was published in 2015 for the International Year of Agricultural Land by the FAO and you can read the exact figures on land loss and in the period 1960 to 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62657	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, colleague Rističević. A colleague of Jovanovic, you also want a replica of the presentation of Professor Sevarlic, but prior to that, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62658	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, you know that Tito's youngest boardman was elected to the DSS list, whose president was formerly Vojislav Kostunica, who was Prime Minister on two occasions. In 2006, no doubt the party ruled Serbia. In 2005, she allocated 145m euros for subsidies. In 2006 136 million and a gentleman in the folk's bed. 350m euros are now being allocated. How many times is that? Three times as many. Three times as much as 2005 and 2006. It is true that agricultural land has not been leased state-owned in order to collect 100 euros per hectare. We broke it up. It is true that the co-operatives, Mr. Martinovic, have been wiped out, have disappeared. With the disappearance of cooperatives in danger they came from the village. More of that capital when the tycoons take the cooperative they buy the singers' panties, silicones, cattle scattered, slaughter, take a tractorist. No, it was an auction. What are you laughing at? It was an auction. A tycoon from their time, a sugar smuggler, etc., who came to 30,000-40,000 acres of land at the time when he criticized as fiercely as, my God. So now you put on a folk costume and become a critic. So, at the time, that capital was no longer reinvested around the village. The cooperative has always funded KUD, bought costumes, etc., football club local, local needs of society, etc., firefighters, all kinds of cooperatives financed in the village. Worked by people on livestock were employed by 100 people, 50 people, etc. E, when the tycoon comes he takes a "John Dir" big, he takes a tractor and no more incomes that fall off near the village. So, demographics are moving from villages and demographically affecting the state of Serbia, where the population has not been evenly deployed and the state has been developing evenly. What happened next? A "cowocide" was executed, 200,000 cows were slaughtered. There were no incentives, they were incentives for nonexistent hectares, not processed, but there were no incentives for, say, livestock farming, fruit growing. What are we funding? Let's say every cow is 25,000 dinars, every cow, every calf 25,000 dinars, every passenger bull 15,000 dinars, every sow 7,000 dinars, every sheep 7,000 dinars, every goat 7,000 dinars, every carrier 1,500 dinars, every lamb 1,500 dinars, etc. In their time, only plant production, so-called plant production, was subsidized. paori, who have raised a revolution because we give cattlemen certain benefits. And then our plant production, without livestock, was used for the processing industry and livestock production of other countries, and now imagine how naive we should be to subsidize the plant production that other countries will use. It was their agricultural policy and from there we will import meat of dubious quality. Since we have decided to guard the rest of the livestock industry, we have not made much progress despite the fact that we have invested for the last three years a billion euros in agriculture, but we have not lost the livestock stock and agricultural production that they have done and our goal is to increase the production, as in Denmark, is used for our livestock, for our livestock farming to renovate it and to raise the processing of milk, meat, eggs, fruit and vegetables, to intensify agricultural production and to raise the processing industry, where there will be more money for agriculture because we will have from the industry where to take it, and the processing industry will benefit because it will have cheaper raw materials and be competitive here and outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62659	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Comrade Jovanovic, you wanted a replica of the presentation of Professor Ševarlic, as far as I understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62660	Thank you, Chairman. Well, my thinking was whether to report to the Rules of Procedure or to the replica, given that MP Ševarlic took this debate away from the topic we are discussing because he opened questions that have absolutely no touch points with the bill under discussion. However, given that they are numerous, I can say freely, it is very important then that the SPS Parliament Club also takes a stand. As already mentioned in the table indicated by Mr Ševarlic, then, the respected ministers with associates, should form tables on how many farming cooperatives went bankrupt in the period from 2002 to 2012. How many farming cooperatives were in a criminal privatisation process? Why? Because privatisation was conducted under an even more criminal privatisation law adopted in 2001/2002. the year with changes and additions that were until 2012. It would be interesting, possibly, to set up tables as well as how agriculture was devastated in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and especially in Vojvodina, as agricultural holdings were literally destroyed and agricultural producers were brought to the level of the beggar stick. Right in that time period. Somehow, we are reminded of these statements that are under the burden of amnesia, obviously amnesia, what has been done since 2002 and beyond, so that we may and should be reminded of all those failures, failures and criminal acts that have led to what has led to agriculture, in order to start revitalising agricultural cooperatives and in some way empowering agricultural producers since 2012 and 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62661	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62662	Thank you. I'm sorry that the discussion went the other way, but first of all, I'm proud to be a committee member of the City of Belgrade's Cultural Council, and I think it's more socially cellular than being involved in the reality program. If it isn't, I'm prepared to take the verdict. Secondly, when working in cooperatives, 40% of cooperatives disappeared on average in Serbia, but in some regions even over 70% of cooperatives. This is exactly what you have in the strategy of developing the agricultural cooperative of the Republic of Serbia, which has been published, as well as the results of the research, as well as the team I led, published in a special publication as a result of survey research, "infild" as it is said, for 118 cooperatives that have entered the sample for research. It's the first exact field survey that's been done since 1975 until today. I haven't met any more exact research in that period until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62663	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62664	I forgot to say, since Professor Chevarlic mentioned the PKK. So, I cited the exact figures of how much the PKK was doing with the loss at the time of Dragan Gilas's mayor and when he took over the PKK under city authority and 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. What I forgot to say and to remind Professor Chevarlic, you must remember that Dragan Gilas, secretly, recorded the video in the PKB in 2017. This was made possible by a certain Rajko Mandic and the president of the PKK's independent union, Milisav Djordjevic. They were present together with Dragan Gilas when he recorded a pre-election video in the PKK, but before the start of working time, on one of the PKK's farms, which, if I am not mistaken, is called the Partizan crossing. That's what Serbian citizens should also know. So, in the figurative sense of that word, the criminal has returned to the scene of the crime. The man who totally ruined the PKK returned to the PKK in 2017 to record a pre-election video there and that he, who, otherwise, has nothing to do with agriculture, as a man of his entire working century was engaged in reselling seconds on televisions with national frequencies and made himself rich in amounts that are unimaginable to Serbian citizens, so in 2017, he secretly returned to the PKK and recorded the video there. What Mr. Marian Risticevic was saying, that's quite true. So, at a time when your coalition partners were in power, we totally devastated our cattle fund. We have done everything contrary to what developed European countries have done. Marian just mentioned Holland. When Dragan Todorovic and I visited Vojislav Seselj in The Hague in 2009 and 2010, so, from Amsterdam to The Hague, you travel on the intercity railways on both sides of the railway, you can see the endless herds of those black white cows as well. I was wondering, then, as a layman for agriculture, how is it possible that something like this isn't happening in Serbia? (Milorad Mircic: Did Todor explain it to you?) No, no, no, They later explained to me people who know more about agriculture than Todor and me, Mr. Mircic. Here's the thing. So someone is thought out, not someone, but those who ran the Ministry of Agriculture at the time, they knowingly destroyed our cattle fund and consciously put Serbia in a position to be the importer of that unquality meat that you keep talking about. So the subsidies were given to tycoons for plant production and we exported practically raw products, such as corn, such as sugar tails, such as wheat, etc., and imported pork, beef, chicken meat, very suspicious quality. So those who have declared themselves advocating agricultural policy the same way they are being led in the EU have done everything the other way around. They didn't do as the Dutch do, as the Danes do. If the Dutch and the Danes aren't ashamed of being on their highways next to the railroads, why are we Serbs ashamed of it? And they said, "No, we don't need cows, we don't need pigs, we don't need any of that, we're going to give subsidies, but only to our chosen tycoons, who will then export raw products, grains and that they are practically the only ones who are rich at it." These are deep, essential reasons why, among other things, Serbian agriculture has experienced a debacle and why we cannot still be fully competitive with countries with which we could objectively be. Serbia, objectively, so Vojvodina itself, here, if we only took Vojvodina, could be competitive with the Netherlands, could be competitive with Denmark. We have more quality land, we have a better climate, we have people who understand agricultural production, we have hardworking and hardworking peasants. It is impossible for a short time to correct all those failures, and they do not miss the unintentioned ones, but it was an organized attack on Serbian agriculture, which was committed in the years of the Dossow government. Don't think they did it by accident. You know that very well. You went out with them to the polls. You know why they were destroying our cattle fund. And then in 2019, you think philosophically and ask yourself – and why does Serbia import pork, and why do we import beef and so on? Well, they killed our cattle fund. They killed us, it doesn't exist. We're practically taking it out of the ashes now. But, you know, Mr. Chevarlich, a cow can't get kidnapped five times a year. So we can't return a year or two of the stock fund that ruined all those who ruled Serbia for 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62665	The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62666	Mr. Milicevic, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 104 and 107. I don't mind when it comes to an interesting debate and an interesting replica, when maybe it's a little funny, but it's getting a little boring. The replica lasts two minutes. We radicals don't mind taking longer, when it's nice for an ear to listen. We hear here how Mr. Martinovic barely recognized the video of Dragan Djilas, how he and Dragan Todorovic or Dragan Todorovic and he barely remained alive because the cows were on both sides of the track. And then on the other hand, we hear nothing less interesting than the professor's story. I ask you, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, to respect the 107th article where we should respect each other with respect that we address each other. And here we see the minister wakes up and suddenly asks the professor to answer. He's the minister, and the professor has to answer. Gentlemen, you've been in power for seven years. All of this is true what you said along with representatives of coalition partners, it's all true, that it's a crime when it comes to cooperatives, that it's a crime when it comes to privatisation. You know the names of the individuals. Why don't you process it? Why don't you take the guilty and the responsible to court? Who are you kidding, the public? What are you afraid of, a grizzly bear? You're talking about whoever privatized the sugar shop. Well, he's a living man, he's still there, he's still working, he's producing. You speak for those, so here, Alexander Seselj has asked you as part of the parliamentary questions – what about IMR Rakovic, who is literally sold for sale in order to raise sales centres, to raise housing buildings, to simply lose any hope that one day this science called technical science, that there will be engineers, technicians and others who will eventually have a chance to work? So please, Mr. Milicevic, that according to the Rules of Procedure, you either take a break or we break up with these tirads.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62667	Thank you, colleague Mircic. As you can see, I've allowed you to speak for more than two minutes. I never intended to interrupt any of the MPs, whether from the ranks of office and opposition. I think the MPs addressed each other with respect during the debate. It's a subjective position whether or not someone's debate is a little boring, but I agree with you in one thing that we've moved away from the topic and we will return to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. I respect your suggestion. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62668	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens who watch the transfer, to continue where we left off after this brief or slightly longer debate on agriculture. However, I would read again, before I bind myself to one of the laws I'm going to talk about, to say that "Duing is a business list" of the World Bank, published today by the World Bank, of 190 ranked states, Serbia took 44th place, which is four positions better than it was last year. For the sake of citizens, ten parameters or ten criteria are viewed here in the "Ding List". And, according to the World Bank, a better position is the result, above all, of reforms that have contributed to easier obtaining building permits, reducing administrative fees, improving, reliability, power supply, as well as better protection of minority investors, publishing transactions of connected persons as ownership and control structures and transparency in corporate reporting. I've read it straight, that's one thing, not to say, nice news, but this is the result of the work of this government, the result of the work of the president and the staff of the SNS. My colleague Ana Čaapić, including Martinovic, has made a summary that we repeatedly repeat here in the Assembly of what has been done over the past seven years, so this Duing Business List of the World Bank is also speaking in favour of our country's jump for four places. I would now return to the topic of today's assembly debate and I would like to say something about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Import and Export Act of Double Purpose. Because of the citizens we are discussing here, and probably all of us MPs, who are participating in the debate, we know what a double-use commodity is, but citizens who are watching this transmission may not be partially clear to them and our discussions, so I will take the liberty of trying to, in one minute, try to do it, not my interpretation, but by quoting it as a professional, what is a double-use slave. Double-use goods are commercial goods, including software and related technologies that are often met in foreign trade, but according to certain technical characteristics, characteristics, method of use and end-use can also be used double, or can be used, in addition to the benefit for civil purposes, and for the production of weapons of mass use, in other words the production of chemical, or biological weapons. Thus, raw materials, technical products, software, technical production chains, all of this comes within that dual-use goods and this Double-use import law is fully in line with European legislation, in line with international standards and a practical law that is relatively new, because this law has been passed, i.e. started to apply since 8 November 2013. Just that viewers know and, of course, the law establishes a strong control and surveillance system in this area, all in order to protect the defence, security and foreign policy interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the international credibility that Serbia has, so that it is in line with all these European and world parameters. It should also be said that relatively in Europe this control of goods is twice the purpose of a relatively new date. That part of the legislation came only after 1991, after that famous Gulf War, and the EU only established a double-use regime with its Regulation of the Council of the European Commission 428 since 2009. So this is a newer legislative regulation which, of course, our country has been involved in, I repeat by law that began to apply in 2013. During the application of this law, what has been observed, and now with these changes trying to remove itself is that all countries are European, some of my colleagues have previously said, both European countries and all countries in the environment, practically imports of dual-use goods have been put aside. There is double-use export control in law and regulation alone. We are now trying to do the same thing by this law to improve our legislation, to remove the obligation to obtain import licences, which so far had to be done by our economic operators, where the requirements for obtaining permits, procedures and documentation collected, as well as the appropriate financial resources, are something that is put aside by this law. It also allows these economic operators to function better, faster. Among other things, some foreign investors had objections to imports, continuous imports of raw materials. In order to produce appropriate funds and exports, raw materials had to be imported, and they, as I said, and other my colleagues, were wasting time, for a minimum of 30 days, to obtain these import licences. According to ministry data, not nearly, but exactly – 700 permits were issued annually for the import of these goods. It will now enable and facilitate economic operators to be competitive, and foreign investors will also be able to invest much easier and our country to achieve a favourable climate and a favourable framework for foreign investments that will make this area a little faster. Although Serbia is not a major importer and exporter of dual-use goods, it has again found its place to improve production and export performance, so it will allow these changes to be attractive to foreign investors who will invest in this area. By the way, the third paragraph, which is the same thing as these two I mentioned, is practically released part of the administration of state authorities in checking, controlling, approval of permits, so that these resources can be used for some other better solutions and improving some other procedures. This is a small law, but not so small, because it dramatically improves this area and gives better exports, better development, especially when practically in the production of dual-use goods there are mainly business entities that are classified in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, so that big progress will be made in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62669	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62670	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, respected colleagues and colleagues, as regards the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on General Product Safety, the SDPS considers it necessary to pay attention, i.e. somehow, to highlight the part relating to good information, i.e. better information of citizens and education, in some ways, to those, when it comes to this topic. Article 7. With regard to the conditions and means of information to the public, the draft law changes entirely with the provisions of Article 13 which states that information made available to the competent authorities regarding the risks posed by the health and safety of consumers and other users shall be made available to the public in accordance with the conditions of transparency, regardless of the restrictions imposed on the activities and monitoring of the research itself. The proposal also clarifies that information on product identification, the nature of the risk and the measures taken will be particularly available to the public. First of all, it refers to those related to the free quality of the product, i.e. product characteristics, which must be published as required by the circumstances and in order to protect consumer health and safety. This proposal also introduces the obligation to provide regular information to the European Commission. It has been clarified that information exchanges with EU Member States should be provided to the European Commission responsible for the further transmission of this information to Member States. When it comes to information, this law should certainly contribute to increasing the awareness of economic operators, above all to their obligations and informing consumers, as I said at the outset, about their rights and how they exercise those rights in the area of general product safety. It is particularly important that this law determines the competence of the market surveillance section for the general safety of products and the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection in the field of misleading products. The adoption of this law will create conditions for the entry of certain new operators into the market as they will virtually eliminate those economic operators who knowingly place dangerous products on the market resulting from a reduction in the cost of production and distribution at the expense of the safety of the products themselves. We from the SDPS in the part of the programme – the social market economy among other things are committed to regulating consumer protection according to European standards, i.e. the free market must not mean the production and placement of all goods and services, because in the EU and a number of developed countries consumer rights protection is a major civilizational fluid. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62671	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62672	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, in my presentation, I will refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act. The General Product Safety Act has been adopted with a view to ensuring a high level of consumer health and safety and other product users taking into account products used for personal use, as well as products for professional activity. The law stipulates the obligation to place on the market exclusively safe products and bans production, imports and placing on the market misleading products, as well as their exports. The safety of products here plays a key role in consumers who buy and use different products daily. Consumer expectations are that the product will work in a reliable and safe way without risk to the health and safety of users or a negative environmental impact. The draft law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act fully and more precisely adopts the provisions of the European Community Directive on general product safety. Amendments and additions are the result of a comprehensive analysis of the application of the applicable law adopted in 2009. Article 2 The draft law changes the concept of a product within the meaning of this law which has so far been applied to final products, and now covers all products including products that are not final and without which certain final products could not be used. That's the case of the battery. In addition, the definition of misleading products has been complemented by clarifying the risks involved by misleading non-food products, but with their appearance they resemble food and can be dangerous to consumers, especially children, can lead to asphyxiation, poisoning or perforation in the digestive tract. I found that before the adoption of the law in 2009 from November to January of the month, from November 2007 to January 2008 over 510,000 pieces of toys were withdrawn from sales, worth around 23.5 million dinars on our market, and our authorised representative, Snezana Paunovic, and in the EU, products that are insecure for children, such as children's wheelchairs, car seats, and it was stated that around 700 toys for children were withdrawn, and some of these toys came to our market. It is explained that in particular information on product identification, the nature of the risk and the measures taken will be made available to the public. The general safety of the product, which is regulated by this law, is an important segment of the legal framework in the area of consumer protection and, at the same time, the law should contribute to increasing the awareness of economic operators about their obligations and informing consumers about their rights and how they exercise those rights in the area of general product safety. The expected effect of this law is a further step towards improving the business environment for responsible placement of safe products and clearer rules of behaviour in the area of consumer protection. The key task of the competent authorities and the objective of this law is to establish market surveillance efficiency in order to achieve product safety with a minimum burden on the economy. This law lays down the competence of the section of the market inspection within the Ministry of Trade in General Product Safety and the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection within the Ministry of Health in the field of misleading products. The competent authority in which the exercise of activities and the application of market surveillance measures aimed at the general safety of non-food products is subject to the application of the principles and procedures laid down in this law. This law provides for the possibility of improving co-operation between competent authorities and economic operators in order to achieve the objective of the law which is unequivocally linked with a higher level of protection and safety of consumers and other product users. In addition to the market surveillance authority, this law gives a significant place and determines the role of the customs authority. By law on general product safety and sublegal acts implementing that law, the Customs Administration has taken over the obligation to co-operate with the competent authorities of market surveillance. On the basis of the law, cooperation and coordination in the exchange of information on dangerous products between market surveillance authorities, customs administrations, with the coordination of that system through the Ministry of Trade. Information on dangerous products must be made available to the public without making requests for the availability of such information. The law will ensure legal certainty for all market participants. The proposed solutions of citizens and economic operators will be fully informed not only about dangerous products, but also about the nature and seriousness of the risks to health and safety and the measures taken. That information will be available on a web address of an advanced version of software that supports the work of the national rapid exchange system of information on dangerous products. The aim of the law is to reduce the potential for adverse consequences for the health and safety of consumers and other users, as well as their assets. Finally, to get out of the topic a little bit and tell you that I had the chance to choose between going to the Old Mountain or Moscow as a member of the Agriculture Committee and I would choose Moscow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62673	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62674	Thank you. As you have already had the opportunity to hear, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support both proposals of the law because they are of the interest of citizens, as they relate to specific situations and concrete relief of what concerns independent life and business. In particular, the Law on importing and exporting dual-use goods is interesting when it comes to economic operators, because as well as everything about our economy, it is good to go into conformity processes with the EU, but also to facilitate our economic operators with regard to their business and equal opportunities with all those on the market. I particularly stress this when it comes to exports, but before exporting imports, and not only for goods of special or dual purpose, but for all goods, secondary raw materials, re-romatarys, etc., because very often our business entities, especially those engaged in manufacturing and having medium size enterprises, are faced with an unfair relationship, i.e. unfair legal solutions when it comes to importing raw materials for their business. In particular, for example, in the textile industry, where very often, especially since this repromatter comes from a Turkish country with which we have special relations when it comes to imports and exports and especially when it comes to their brands in our country, which puts our domestic producers involved in this business in an unfavourable relationship. On the other hand, it is very good that there is control and control of everything that is imported, but it is also important and that there is a measure in such controls. Very often, businessmen, especially those who deal with imports, complain to the MPs about an unequal legal status when it comes to customs duties on goods, when it comes to imports of various goods, especially on this route from Turkey. So, let's say, a few days ago, also in terms of imports of certain goods from the Republic of Turkey, there has been some search, which we support, which should be, where it is said to be looking for some large fish, but in this and such relationship also those who legally and fairly imported their goods have suffered. They're not stopped, say, at customs terminals, but inside, when storage that goods in their warehouses. It would be good to make sure that those who actually work legally, legitimately, who pay their taxes, are not victims of large sums and have, again, the same status with all those on the market. In particular, this law goes in this direction to facilitate this control, to simplify and give our economic operators the opportunity to operate in a similar way as large companies do, with great potential and with great consumer capacity. In this context, we will support both this and all other laws that go in that direction and that will make it easier for anyone who is seriously involved in our country and the region and anyone who thus provides the existence for a greater number of workers who are today struggling to survive and feed their families in even easier conditions of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62675	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62676	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, honourable fellow Members of the People, I will talk about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on General Product Safety, in particular the Art. 7 and 8 of this Bill, which concerns standards and criteria for assessing the conformity of products. The reference to standards is increasingly seen as an integral part of good regulatory practice and good governance. The common characteristics of good public policy creation and good practice in standardisation include openness, transparency, efficiency, global applicability, consensus and expert opinions, and the key criterion for both sides is that policy, i.e. standards responding to verified needs. The requirements of harmonised standards supporting the application of this law concern primarily the safety and method of testing of products that are in our everyday use. The compliance of products with general safety requirements is also assessed according to Serbian standards, regardless of the basis for their adoption and standards of other countries, which are brought into the environment, which has more stakeholders, thus ensuring that a wide range of technical views are represented, including those relating to social and economic interests. In this way, the developed standard offers the same level of consumer protection, whether applied in the developed economy or in the development economy. In addition, the voluntary standardisation framework enables market participants to take care of the standard, which is easier for the legislator, as such maintained standards for market participants represent acceptable technological solutions. Manufacturers may use harmonised standards on the list carried out by the Minister responsible for standardisation tasks to prove that their products comply with the essential requirements of the law. The list is formed on the basis of a list of harmonised standards published by the European Commission. Manufacturers using harmonised standards shall have the obligation to verify the list, because depending on the time when a defined harmonised standard is found or is updated on the list, the manufacturer must re-test its product, comply with new requirements, update its documentation and act accordingly, in accordance with the law defining the placing on the market of the product produced by a harmonised standard. Since 1 December 2018, references to harmonised standards have been published and withdrawn from the EU's Official List on the basis of the Commission's decision. It is a legally binding EU act directly applicable in all EU Member States and aims to ensure uniform implementation of European legislation. The aim of these measures is to integrate the Member States' markets and ensure the free movement of goods in about the same way that takes place within the territory of a country. Elimination of obstacles is achieved by unifying national rules and technical requirements for products, especially in those areas where there is a greater risk to the consumer. This also ensures an equal level of protection of consumer and environmental public health in the whole internal European market. Products not covered by European legislation shall be subject to the principle of mutual recognition, i.e. products legally manufactured and placed on the market in one Member State can be freely placed throughout the Union. In essence, the chapters on free movement of goods form technical regulations that regulate quality infrastructure. These rules apply to all products, i.e. what is called the harmonised area, which is based on new or global access directives, which state general, i.e. essential requirements for products and their labelling prior to placing on the market. Therefore, the EU expects the candidate countries to comply with the legislation in this chapter, no later than the date of accession. European legislation in this area is fully transposed through the transposition of a number of directives of old and new approaches. As regards non-harmonised products, national rules governing their placing on the market are different in different countries. They usually prescribe stricter conditions for placing on the market. However, the harmonised area does not support this and in these cases the European Commission is putting in place certain objections, which require national regulations to be in line with harmonised standards. The completion of the free flow negotiations will ensure full compliance of domestic products with European legislation relating to products. Following full compliance with EU rules, respect for the principle of free movement of goods will be ensured. This principle means that trade in products from one part of the EU in any other must be implemented without restrictions. Accordingly, Serbian products will move on the European market without obstacles. The certificates issued in Serbia will be recognised by all Member States, which will have free access to the European market, and Serbian producers will avoid conducting re-examinations when placing products on the European market, which will also affect cost reductions. Why do I feel that the harmonised area is extremely important and that harmonised standards for Serbia are very important? It is because of this problem, when we talk about a double survey and a cost that has a Serbian economy when it puts a particular product on the European market. National regulations and testing in national laboratories are not sufficient to place the product on the European market and therefore further needs to be done, i.e. double examinations for placing the product on the European market. We therefore believe that both this law and all those that are adopted in the direction of harmonisation and domestic regulations, in accordance with the rules of the single one, have great importance for the Serbian economy, primarily when it comes to costs that are extremely significant for export-oriented factories. I think it's very important to point out and keep in mind. We are usually talking about EU regulations here, we are talking about a single market. It is a European market and we are talking about the conditions that exist here. All of what we are saying today about this law are extremely important parameters that will make our economy more competitive in Europe, give our producers the opportunity to export their product more easily and in a easier way to bring their legislation and their products into line. Therefore, SDP MPs in the voting day will also support this law and other laws on the agenda of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62677	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62678	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests, dear colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, today I will say something about the law on amendments and additions to the General Product Safety Act. There are a whole range of different requirements to be met regarding product safety, depending on the type of product, the intention, the target group in which they are intended, the environment in which the product will be used and the country in which the product will be offered on the market. The 2009 law in the Republic of Serbia was passed with the aim of ensuring a high level of protection of consumer health and safety and other product users. Today we're going to talk about amendments and additions to this law. The law requires that we place on the market exclusively safe products and prohibit the production, import and placing on the market of misleading products and their exports. The next supplement is compliance or compliance with certain EU rules. This bill changes the concept of the product. So far, he's been referring to final products, and now he's covering everything, and those that aren't final, because without them, the final ones can't be used. It's, like, batteries that you use in tech or some toys. In the application of this law, information that represents a business secret will not be published. The exemption shall be made by competent authorities that effectively monitor and monitor the market. The next supplement is regular information from the European Commission, which regulates the exchange of information between producers and distributors and the terminology of concepts with the European Commission. Thus, the General Product Safety Act contributes to clarifying the essential concepts of product safety, compliance assessment criteria, obligations of manufacturers and distributors, exchange of information, mandatory public information and dangerous products, competences and powers of the supervisory authority in this area. There's a lot of disrespect and violations of the law. For example, in two months from November 2007 to January 2008, 510,000 toys worth 23.5 million dinars were withdrawn from the sale. This speaks enough about the Serbian market at the time and about the control of toy purchases to its children. When it comes to technical goods, over the past few years 1,800 complaints have been sent to the National Consumer Organisation for Technical Devices and Cars. The Republic market inspection has reached hundreds of complaints, mainly concerning imported technical devices and cars. As far as food products are concerned, we have numerous cases of incineration of an invalid so-called. Brazilian, chicken, turkey, beef smuggled from KIM, where tons of unverified goods come from, sold on liquor counters and on the streets. Unfortunately, we still have some magnetic and other toys that are banned in the EU. Safety controls of the products shall be carried out by inspection. First we have the Department of Trade, so the market inspector, the second we have the Ministry of Health, the health inspector. These are inspection controls. By law, the competent customs authority will not allow imports of products which do not comply with the safety requirements of the product. The imperative of the law, which is very important, is respect for the law and inspection, taking appropriate measures. The aim of the law is to reduce the possibility of adverse consequences for the health and safety of consumers and their assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62679	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62681	I thank the chairman. It's made of double purposes, that's nice. A misleading product. That, especially, inspired me. It's dual-purpose products. The richest people in Serbia are not Miskovic and other tycoons, MK, the richest people in Serbia are Solak, Gilas, Dragan seconds, mystery seconds, seconds. Imagine, when you become the richest in Serbia, when you earn 619m euros and you have no product. Is this a misleading product, a advertiser, on media that is not his, in public, public, service, is that a misleading product? Imagine a country where Dragan Gilas attacks for top-secret secrets regarding the production of weapons, missiles, other types of weapons become public. Imagine. Gilas' team wants the issue of production and arms trade to be transparent, i.e. that there is no sign of confidentiality, that it can be sold to Bulgarian journalists, who is who, to whom, to make state secrets public. But when it comes to contracts, so did Mr. Bujosevic, when it comes to the Darakt media contracts with RTS, public service. Public service is funded by all citizens who choose this National Assembly. If we're obliged to work in public, I guess it's also a public service. But, look at the wonders, the business secret is contained in contracts between RTS and the Diract Media, about handing over basketball games, for example. It is a business secret, and when someone asks for public information, what public service is doing, then Dragan Bujosevic corresponds to my smallness, the MP, that it contains contracts between him and Dragan Gilasa's secret. Now, if the two of them had signed up as private persons... I would believe that they have the right to some kind of secrecy, but since one is a public service, it is an obligation for the National Parliament, the National Assembly and the People's MPs to share that information. What kind of deception is that, what kind of product is double purpose? Trade for seconds, other people's seconds, advertising space in RTS, I'm Dragan Gilas, I use state resources, I use everything that is funded by RTS, I keep small salaries to employees, I like Bujosevic, but for Gilasa must have. It's got to be that 619. Your wealth is like seawater, the more they drink it, the more they thirst. So Dragan Gilas, regardless of the 619 million, needs contracts with the yellow Buicket, and, then yellow Buke keeps low wages to its employees, but therefore renews, renews, wateres the wealth of Dragan Gilas. That wealth, to put it in Djindjic's words, is weed. Buke represents RTS, he waters that weed, instead of using advertising space to make these cameras, installers and RTS employees pay, he raises and increases the wealth of Dragan Gilas, and there is Solak. I'm going to try to tell you how much the transfers and links between the Diretk Media, which is related to Gilas and Mr. Solak and his companies, United Media and SBB, are going around. Here, let's say transfer – 28,231,685,00; 3,005,000,00; 144,757,000,00; 153,630.990,00 dinars, 85,848,508,00 dinars; 153,680.670,00 dinars; 75,600,875,00 dinars; 3,671.710,00 dinars. All in all – 643 million in dinars, but we still have. They're not just dinars. These are dual-purpose products. We also have Euros. For example, the inflow of the Darakt Media by United Media, Šolakova, means, the inflow of Dragan Gilas from Solak, exclusively from the SBB subscription, so we go in line: 22.550,00 euros, 255.00 euros, 344,000.00 euros, 255,000, 1710.000,00 euros, 261.000,00 euros, 166.500,00 euros, 171.500,00 euros, 1,019.000,00 euros, 401.500,00 dinars, we enter the protests slowly, 790.000, increasing the amount that Solak pays to Gilas and then, 5.209.805.00 dinars, which United Media Šolakova pays Gilas's Darakt Media. So these are products of special purpose, these are products that are misleading, these are double-use products, one purpose to enrich Solak, another intention is to enrich Gilas. Now, this same team resents us that we don't solve all the problems they left us any faster. I have to tell everyone that we are obliged to sanction this, and their "N1", "New S" television, Gilas, Schools, False cross-border channels, and to prevent money from pumping, because these money is being financed by anti-state actions, while "N1" and "New S" in the subparoline of anti-state policy and business policy, Solak, Gilas, until this money is financed by protests in Belgrade, which is becoming increasingly radical. It's not just extremist organizations anymore, it's extreme terrorist groups. We are obliged to defend the state. It's more important to defend the state, to build it than to rule it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62682	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62683	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals will never agree with the representatives of the government in the way of law-making. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to pass laws on EU orders here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have two such laws, and today you have written to us what directives you must respect, that they have instructed you to do so, etc. We think it is very harmful, especially because the SRS opposes Serbia's entry into the EU, and you see for yourself that since joining the EU it will hardly be anything, no matter how direct, nice, obedient you are. Simply, the EU has no intention of sewing and then trying to put us in some kind of Balkans, in some new Yugoslavia, etc., which is also as harmful as Serbia's entry into the EU would be. One of the main remarks on this General Product Safety Act is what you are talking about products that are consistent with EU products. We do not understand why it was a problem to write that certain products comply with Serbian standards that can be in line with what is positive when it comes to the standards of individual EU countries? We have no objection to aligning ourselves with something that is positive, with something that is generally good, etc., but at any cost to break in by EU orders and directives, it is not good, first of all, for the citizens of Serbia. General product safety, regardless of the law that exists and these amendments to the law, is something far from real standards, i.e. real and necessary standards in Serbia. We have a little bit of a problem with importing toxic baby food, and then importing toxic toys, and then suspicious building material and nothing happens. Two days' paper's been writing about it, and no one knows who's responsible. You know, he can't be held responsible even if he knows who imported those poison toys. He can't be responsible. He could only try to do such a thing, and the state authorities could and had to prevent it, so that someone was responsible for trying to poison children in Serbia, not to establish themselves... He says it's a company there, we'll question, we'll see, for two days, the ministers eventually answer questions about what happened here, all of them by the authorities, and the authorities as if they weren't there. How much were we talking about building material being built into corridors, say, what are your pride? I stress again, that it should not be – you Serbian radicals against building roads and corridors, no. On the contrary, it is something that is really necessary and every mile, every foot of the road is something that should be enjoyed by every citizen of Serbia, but it is amazing to us that after such a pompous opening of the Corridor in Grdelica, three days later, cracks appear. Then the representatives of the authorities explain to us, at press conferences, he says – we have not suffered any harm, it has been resolved. It's not about whether it's been taken care of or not. No, he'll leave the holes. Of course it'll be rescheduled. But how it was supposed to happen and whether someone would ever explain to us how it happened, who was responsible. No one will, of course, ever. He won't, and he can't when we're building... You're building corridors where there's a guaranteed deadline for the highway for two years. Well, now it's a five-year warranty period for washing machines. It's really something that's amazing what you're trying to do and you're covering it with your European laws and you've done everything you need to do. You've passed the law, and what kind of law? You don't care about that, either. Now, in order for you to understand better what we're saying and what we're based on these views. First of all, on the SRS program and now I'm going to read you one point of this program and part of the second point. Point 46 of our programme refers to the rights of foreigners and says: “General rights and freedoms are those rights that are equally accessible to foreigners, as well as to domestic citizens. ” Is this in Serbia like this? No, because foreigners are in a privileged position, because foreigners get money, subsidies, money from the budget, and our people don't get it or get some elected there to show it on TV. We are opposed to that, and today we have heard from colleagues from the authorities that Serbia is industrializing again, that new jobs are opening up, that I don't even know who's coming here, who's coming here, etc., so here's a little reminder of some promises that might have a little more serious effect than we have so far, but there's nothing from those promises. What happened to "Tenis"? That was Alexander Vukic's promise when he represented himself here as Prime Minister. Nothing has been done to this day. At that time, we listened to the minister and recently listened to the minister of agriculture who said that "Tenis" should have taught Serbian peasants how to feed pigs, how to feed pigs. It's just something amazing. What happened to the chip factory? Why do we remember the chip factory? In 2013, when Ivica Dacic was Prime Minister, Vukic was the first vice president, just to remind you of just one part of the ministers from that time in the government. The ministers were Verica Kalanovic from G17, he was Velja Ilic, he was Sasa Radulovic, he was Mladjan Dinkic, he was Susana Grubjesic, the same G17, he was Sulejman Ugljanin. There were other people, but these are so characteristic. In 2013, Mladjan Dinkic came out with one big piece of information and said, "We got $400m from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund and 400m from Al Dahra." That was in March 2013. He said it was 800 million for agriculture and that our farmers would finally learn to deal with agriculture. It's an insult. Then Dinkic also said that just then, in March 2013, he started talks on the chip factory, and then at press conferences, we heard that whoever took over those talks, but from the chip factory there was nothing, but what remains is that Dinkic left a link with Al Dahra, which was supposed to do so. You keep trying, when someone tells you about Dinkic as your partner, to say that's not the case, but we like to remind you sometimes. What happened to Mercedes? Have you forgotten? The people did not forget when the "Icarbus" bus was glued to the "Mercedes" sign. Where is this Mercedes now? Where's "Folkswagen"? You forgot that you promised Mercedes, so a few months ago you wrote "Folcvagen" will come to Zemun, to "Icarbus". To push with Mercedes, I guess, what? What happened to the "SIS" company in Priboj? A promise-a crazy joy, none of it was. Where's our plane parts factory? And I guess that's what Serbia was supposed to be doing, right? It's not gonna happen. None of that, but you're making export and import laws for double purposes, or you're changing the existing law. For what? For the sake of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And you here now tell us how good this agreement is, and we all know how much the Serbian peasant suffers because of that agreement, how much our agricultural products are at a lower price, because agricultural products are imported from the white world, from those countries that are members of the EU, without customs. And yet, who gets subsidies? Foreigners get it. This is where we heard, if anyone buys a combination, they'll get half of the state. Well, and if that's the case, why don't you find out what kind of peasants they can buy? What kind of peasants can buy a tractor? What kind of peasants can change their tractor tires? You cannot descend a little into the people, to live the life of our man, our peasant, even a man in Serbia. You've imagined it all well, but from the realization, here through these few examples we've shown you, there's nothing since the realization. And I promised that when it comes to investing foreign capital, to remind the general public as foreseen by the SRS programme, one part I'll read, actually two points, that's point 62. Programmes: "Serbian radicals consider the subsidisation of foreign companies inadmissible and to cause inconspicuous damage to the domestic economy and industry for the long term. Instead of creating fictitious employment, for the purpose of propaganda, it would be far more justified to share subsidies to the citizens of our country, who have lost their jobs and help them start entrepreneurial activities." Why, gentlemen, aren't you doing this? Why are you not helping people in Serbia this way? Furthermore, our Programme states: "The business of foreign factories on our country's territory leads to artificial growth of imports and exports and a fictitious increase in trade balance from the EU. Companies shall import parts used in production and exports of finished products shall be treated as domestic exports and, if they are not, essentially." Here's an example for you, "Fiyata." You are constantly trying to say that "Fiat" is our product, and as for "Fiyat" and possible exports of "Fiyat", Serbia is just a transit country, as well as another one that it goes through if exported somewhere beyond Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62684	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62685	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, today's laws are practically the continuity of creating a legal framework for the development of Serbia's economy and further progress in economic opportunities. It is particularly important to propose a law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act on double-use goods. The amendments to this law will practically relieve economic operators operating in the Republic of Serbia. To the most extent, these are domestic operators operating with this type of goods, which are classified as micro and small business entities. In fact, so far, the collection of documents, submission of requests and waiting for import licences to be issued alone lasted about 30 days, which is certainly burdensome and reduces the competitiveness of these companies on the market. By abolishing the obligation to obtain import licences, business operators will be greatly facilitated. They will be able to do business on an international scale and develop their business. Apart from domestic businessmen, this is a relief for foreign investors operating in Serbia, as well as for those doing business in the future in our territory. Remember that Serbia is a very attractive business area, that in the past few years an increasing number of foreign companies have opened their plants throughout Serbia. Moreover, as we remove legal barriers here, President Vukic's negotiations with friends from all over the world result in better business ventures. First of all, I mean the last event that agreed on the arrival of very successful German companies, which will pay our workers an impressive thousand and 700 euros of net income on average. So we are removing the technological stagnation created by these administrative procedures, which will cheapen the production process itself, and the end result is, of course, a larger budget inflow. I mentioned earlier that many newly opened companies import the machines and raw materials needed to carry out their activities. Some of these machines and raw materials are on this list of goods, or dual - purpose goods. Thus, this change is very important for speeding up the process of creating a final product for exports, which will also significantly increase exports. We have indeed come to the stage when we are dealing with great relief by removing minor shortcomings, which have been seen in practice, and these shortcomings in practice would not have been able to see that our country has not recovered, that our economy has not developed significantly and that Serbia has not become a country of stability and economic prosperity. It is clear to all of us that a great deal of effort has been put into this, serious work and clear policy, all of what those who criticise Vukic don't actually own. I understand that the people of the Alliance for Serbia are really frustrated to the point that circusmaking is their only remaining idea. However, Serbia is full of everything that the Alliance for Serbia represents because Serbia has a builder, Serbia has a uniter, has a president who has clearly and unequivocally proved that a leader who knows where it leads and leads his people. My colleagues and I will certainly support these amendments to the laws which, I repeat, will significantly contribute to the release of the economy and open the door to new economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62686	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62687	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First of all, some amazing things. So it's not really clear to me that the government of the Republic of Serbia and not only this one, but since 2000, can't understand that as successful as it is in so-called success. "the harmonisation process" i.e. harmonisation of rights, Serbia's internal law with European legislation will not be closer to the EU. Commendation on how much better our regulation is now. So, in addition to exporting goods, dual-use goods were controlled and imports of goods, which in fact existed in the Republic of Serbia a higher degree of control than is provided for by the EU regulator who controls only the export of these goods. So that we will adopt and improve our regulations in any area will absolutely not bring Serbia closer to EU membership. Let me remind you, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2008. It took effect in January 2009, unless memory cheats on me. We started applying unilaterally, we abolished all customs duties, and income from 2008 and 2014 differed by 534m euros per year. So, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And not to mention that for 11 years since the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are not even close to EU membership and, as a condition of all conditions, the recognition of Kosovo's independence by Serbia is mentioned, i.e. mutual recognition. So, the Republic of Serbia signed a legal-binding agreement with so-called. "Kosovo" and in return will receive recognition from the "republic of Kosovo". No European regulation, adopted in Serbia, will help Serbia on its way to the EU, and above all, I think that all should follow signals coming from top European officials, from the president and officials of all, especially the most powerful European states. Emmanuel Makron has repeatedly stressed that the EU will not expand and that the EU does not even know what to do with these remaining 27 members when the UK leaves the EU. So, all programmes, as far as subsidies are concerned, as regards the privileged position of investors coming, primarily from the west to Serbia, will not bring Serbia closer to the EU. Today, we could hear that a new framework for co-operation between the EU and something called the Western Balkans, whatever it is, is special ties and a special partnership, which is something that was promised to Turkey by ten years ago and where it was already clear to all that from the perspective of Turkey's EU membership there is nothing. So now we've already been made aware of it. No one will say - Serbia will never become an EU member, but you fulfill what we are asking of you. That's not gonna happen. But indeed, the procedures should show and draw some conclusions about what the EU thinks about Serbia. The EU's attitude towards Serbia, as far as our economy is concerned, could have been visible in time, so in August 2014, Serbia had a neutral position between Russia and the EU during the trade war, at the time of the EU sanctions to the Russian Federation and of course, it was an opportunity to increase Serbia's agricultural products to Russia through favourable loans. Within 24 hours of the government's statement on the subject, the EU's directive came from EU representative Michael Davenport in Belgrade, how if Serbia continued to do so, it would be interpreted as an enemy act. So the enemy act is when we encourage our economy, and when we blindly follow what comes to us from Brussels, it's a friendly act of cooperation and friendship. This is the EU's attitude towards Serbia. We have come to the situation today, because of the abundant subsidies that go up to 10,000 euros per job to foreign businesses in Serbia, because of the free land they get and because of all the permits they get under accelerated procedures, we are in a situation that Serbian businessmen are uncompetitive in Serbia towards businesses coming from abroad, which are, above all, those coming from Western Europe and the United States. That's what the EU has brought us. On the other hand, we will come to one danger that some Eastern European countries are also in. If we are too dependent on foreign investors, they will have great blackmailing potential towards government in Serbia, if one day Serbia is determined to wake up, demonstrate its sovereignty, make some free decisions, decisions in the Serbian national interest, which are not in line with the orders from Brussels. All these Western investors can withdraw from Serbia, especially when you imagine a foreign investor who gets everything for free gets 10,000 euros per job, gets land, gets all the permits and his job starts to fail. He's losing his job, his profits are less, his profits are less, which he's going to get out of and out of, the one he invested in the factories of his money, invest for the future in the long run, or that country where he got everything on the plate? Well, he'll leave Serbia first. What is Serbia's chance and where I would support the maximum if it would deepen is co-operation with the Euro-Asian Economic Union, because it is the future. The European Union is not the 1992 EU, is no longer the dream of every European country. The European Union is in the process of disintegration and this is increasingly visible in terms of the EU's most powerful countries towards the countries of Eastern Europe, the former Socialist bloc. And Serbia can take everything to the markets of the Eurasian Economic Community, especially what we have heard from Mr. Medvedev recently, before his visit to Belgrade, that both Iran and India will soon be members of that community, one of the most powerful countries in the world, the largest, with the largest market, with the largest population. This is our perspective and we should work on it, we should be focused there, and we should leave political pressures for someone else, especially because recognition of Kosovo's independence is the condition of all conditions. And the fact that some of the European countries have not recognised Kosovo's independence guarantees nothing, because if by legally binding agreement Kosovo becomes a member of the UN, all countries will recognise it and will not mean anything that five European countries do not recognise it. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62688	Thank you. The word is Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62689	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, the General Product Safety Act was adopted in 2009 with the aim of ensuring a high level of protection of consumer health and safety and other product users, taking into account the products used for personal use, as well as products used for professional activity. The law ensures that products placed on the market are absolutely safe, but that dangerous or misleading products cannot be placed on the same market. The obligations of manufacturers and distributors, conditions and means of information and information exchange relating to risks posed by a product for the health and safety of consumers, as well as market surveillance measures, have been precisely defined, with a view to achieving general consumer safety, i.e. consumer safety. In the process of further harmonisation, with the emphasis, among other things, consumer protection, standardisation and general consensus, this draft law on amendments and additions to the General Product Safety Act, which we are discussing today, and which should be unreservedly supported in the day of voting. The expected effect is a further step in improving the business environment for responsible trading and clearer consumer behaviour rules, and it is of particular importance to prevent unfair competition, all contributing together to the development of our economy and to the construction of a modern trade structure and to the faster integration of the Republic of Serbia on the single EU and the demanding world market. There is no more important task than the development of our economy and the overall development of our country and nothing is more important than the general security of every Serbian citizen who, by 2012, in Vojvodina until 2016, managed our country, of course, had not even thought about it. The way of development and progress, prosperity for them was irrelevant. All that mattered to them was how to get rich, rob, destroy, and destroy anything that would make Serbia a country in which to live decently. It has long been clear that on October 5th and 2000, what they call a revolution was the deception of the people, and for them the leaders of that revolution, can be said in the spirit of this law were a misleading and dangerous product for Serbia and its citizens. They were in this unfortunate time truly misleading product that only by their appearance, shape, size, color, smell, packaging, label and quantity, under the definition of misleading products, only reminded people, and that they were essentially not. That they were a dangerous product, proved to be, after 12 years of their government, left Serbia with SNS and its president, Aleksandr Vukic. They left her humiliated, robbed and overindebted, people without a job, poor, with no hope of ever going to work again and providing a better life for themselves and their family. For 12 years, I don't want to remember, but I don't want to forget them, so I'm asking the question -- how did tycoon Gilas in that period of the DS government, in which he himself participated, so-called, earn more than 600m euros without being involved in the destruction of misleading products? The answer is more than clear. Along with DOS leaders, it was a dangerous product for the safety and health of consumers for all Serbian citizens. In 2012, citizens recognized and donated their trust to the SNS and today to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. They have repeated that since then, because they see the results, because they are going back to work and they are creating awareness that Serbia is progressing, that it has become proud, independent and worldwide-recognized country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62690	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62691	Listening to the praises of colleagues from the ruling coalition, you simply have to ask yourself, if we are so good and the best in the region, what is it like for the rest of them? What are they like when we're the best? It's a simple logical conclusion. If, in Serbia, this standard, this life, the degree of employment, and the worst of all those who leave young people, who leave Serbia, is a part of the leadership, so what about the others? There's a disaster with the others. The bottom line is the next one. We here have repeatedly considered these laws that we comply with the EU's legal norms. Here's one of those laws, legal proposals, and that's general product safety. In this general safety product, the most attention is caused by the so-called “. ” Deluing products. I'm now taking the opportunity to apologize to a colleague who talked about one case, when it comes to the misleading product, she was talking about school supplies, she was talking about something that's a real danger to children who use this tool, and it's a wiper that has a certain smell, like a colleague... I understood completely differently, and that's why I'm taking the opportunity, but it's a good example, because children are the most endangered category because these misleading products don't even have a declaration, they don't have a warning, they don't have anything. The form reminds them of a food product and for children it is a challenge and it is not bad to point out the potential danger in public to distract parents, but we have an example that is more present in Serbia than this school utensils. It's a product called Coke. Coke is a product that is loaded here in Serbia, some say products, but it is loaded and it is a product that has no declaration and if there is, there is no complete content in the declaration, of which the potion is made up. Everyone already knows that if your sink is clogged, it's a good coke car. If you can't turn the queen away because the corrosion caught her, it's a good coke. Everybody knows that already. There are clips and clips that the public can see. That same drink is used, consumed by children and adults. Isn't that a little worrying? Has anyone, gentlemen, asked a question and said – wait, it is impossible for such a property to blow, specifically, the sink and that it can help when it comes to the development of the queen. This means that there is some composition in that liquid, that potion that contains, conditionally speaking, one kind of acid. These acids, if they chew on the corrosion, if they bite at everything that's in the pipes for the depletion of dirt, must have a harmful effect on human health, but coke is something that's a symbol of the great American empire. It must not be touched, not only in Serbia, but generally in most parts of the globe, it must not be touched, because it is something in which America is recognised. They even went, remember that ad, that the moon was painted black, and white letters say coke. That drink I take as an example is still in use, using it. No one has ever officially come out, I am not only complaining to the current, current government, but also to say -- wait, people, it's untested, it's supposed to be tested in labs. After all, why would we do this work of Sisif, we need on the declaration of that drink to stand out what the ingredients are. How do you do that? It's impossible. Here's the logic of things. The company's shareholder was Zoran Djindjic. How will he, as Prime Minister after 5 October, go against his own interests? What does he care if it affects the health of people who live and consume it in Serbia in one way or another? What does he care? He wasn't interested in anything. He has subordinated all his strengths, intellectual and other opportunities to create a pyramidal organisation that has been tasked with raising money in Serbia and that whoever is at the top of the pyramid is using it. Doesn't that look familiar to you from the SNS and this coalition? This pyramid organization is famous, but let's get back to the subject. Secondly, we have something that's a real danger and the more alarming the world's public, which is these electronic cigarettes. Electronic cigarettes, by the way, are harmful, compared to these ordinary cigarettes are more dangerous, and this already represents the World Health Organization as the fact that it is very, very risky to use such means that are still aromatized, so they have this property that makes a man an addict to smell, not only to say taste, but also to smell. Otherwise, people who are smokers are kind of in the addiction category, and it's hard to give up that habit, and this is a much bigger addiction, if it can be compared or presented, because there's an aroma here, an artificial, that's added to those little filters, as far as I've seen, as an ex-smoker, I don't understand it anymore, but I know what that danger is. This is something that has been raised to one degree of general danger in the Western European countries in America, where it is warned that the use of such products, such as electronic aromatised cigarettes, must be prevented. In Serbia, it is literally more and more in sales. Did any labs do research? Did someone come out with some analysis and say -- wait, are these guys right to alarm the public or not, that we know? They're not, because those labs, which they're supposed to be dealing with, they're in function of capital. Everything is subordinated to capital. Globalism, by itself, is such that everything undermines the interest, or capital. It's about capital. The fact that health is or something else is threatened, that they don't care, and we're here discussing some things that are much more harmless than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62692	My friend Mircic, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62693	My time is just coming, Mr. Arsic, but thank you for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62694	I'm thinking of this time in the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62695	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected MPs, the current law on general product safety, as we know, was adopted in 2009 by hiring national experts and experts in the EU. It aimed to ensure a high level of health protection and consumer safety, taking into account products used for personal use, as well as products for the performance of professional activities. Therefore, the obligation to place on the market exclusively safe products and prohibitions of production, imports and placing on the market of misleading products, as well as their exports, is laid down by law. Given that this law has a significant role to play in meeting the commitments undertaken and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as Chapter 12, it is necessary to define the relevant concepts, the criteria for the assessment of conformity, the obligation of manufacturers and distributors, the exchange of information and the obligation to inform the public about dangerous products, the competences and powers of the supervisory authorities in this area by amending and supplementing the Act on general product safety. For example, these days we learn from the media that there is a difference in the quality of Perutine Ptuj for the Slovenian and our Serbian markets. That is why the aim of this law is to reduce the possibility of adverse consequences for the health and safety of consumers and other users, as well as their assets. To remind the esteemed MPs, President Aleksandar Vukic, in his exposé, as prime minister and later candidate for Prime Minister Mrs Brnabic, pointed out three strategic goals of agriculture in continuity. One of the objectives is to coordinate with the EU's common agricultural policy. I quote – we will establish and develop independent laboratories and systems to control food quality and health safety. Also, we will establish systems of traceability where food production is controlled from the moment of production to the moment of consumption, without jeopardising sustainability in terms of conservation and improvement of the environment. Food safety programme, Hazzard Analysis Critical Control Point or risk analysis and critical points, checkpoints, etc. HACCP, has been developed almost 30 years ago for the needs of astronauts, and it is solely to prevent the risk of disease development by food products. The European Union has included its directives in the Food Safety Act, which clearly states that food business operators are obliged to establish a food safety system at all stages of food production, processing and transport in accordance with the principles of good manufacturing and hygiene practices and analysis of hazards and critical control points. According to the shortest definition, HACCP covers a number of procedures to control the process and sensitive points in the food chain with the ultimate aim of making use of food products in a state and in a way that is safe for its health. Therefore, this system is recognised as an international standard for food safety production because it makes up the system of principles of methodologies that provide the production of healthy food. Thus, nutrition is undoubtedly one of the most important external factors that condition good or poor health and affect the working ability and length of human life. The concept of life-forms implies anything used for food and drink in a processed or unprocessed state. According to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is clear that everyone has the right to a standard of living that provides health and well-being for his and his family, including food. Food safety becomes one of the basic preoccupations of modern man. The UN's Folov Agency for Food and Agriculture, established in 1945, estimates that around 10 billion people will live in the world in 2050, and the problem of food will increase. Food-induced diseases have a much wider spectrum than it initially seems and can cause enormous damage to the human organism. In order to ensure the quality of the products, certain standards are laid down in terms of standardising the health and quality of the products on the market, which regulate the health correctness of the foods, rules governing the veterinary and sanitary control of foodstuffs of animal origin and regulations governing the quality of the product. Experts dealing with the assessment of the health correctness of the product consider the concept absolutely healthy and uncontaminated product to be unrealistic. There's no such thing as... the notion of zero risk of contaminants in products. That's why the tendency to take existing risks is to minimise the risk analysis system and the critical control points that I was talking about, this is a system where product safety is considered through analysis and control of biological, chemical and physical agents. In the end, I can conclude with the words of Prime Minister Brnabic, who has decidedly said -- there is no compromise when it comes to product safety, or food. Just a few more minutes to respond to the previous speaker. Since he was talking about the harmfulness of coke, he had to be very clear as to what was the substitute for that drink. I'm offering him a recent, a folk potion that he can use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62696	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62697	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose, I would like to point out that in the era of modern technologies, the rapid flow of goods and money, the conclusion of a contract on distance, co-operation, trade and the generally fast way of doing business, our country will adapt its regulations in order to ensure in a better and simpler way conditions for businesses to cooperate successfully. Excessive and unnecessary administration that in most countries only a relic of the past must be either abolished or reduced to the least possible extent to create as simple a condition of business as possible, and we are just doing it with these amendments and additions to the law. Given the fact that European legislation, but also the legislation of countries in the environment, has been relieved of a number of formalities and administrative procedures, and we adapt the law accordingly. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are precisely aimed at removing the observed shortcomings in the previous period that have made business difficult for business operators, in order to further attract foreign investors and facilitate their business in this area. It is precisely the main objective of amending the import and export laws of dual-use goods to relieve economic operators of the costs they have incurred so far. Also, these amendments and additions to the law create the benefits and attractiveness of foreign investment in this area. When we talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act, I will repeat some of the things that my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group have drawn up, and that is that the applicable General Product Safety Act was adopted in 2009 in the process of taking over the provisions of the two EU rules, the General Product Safety Directive and the so-called Directive. dangerous imitations, with a view to ensuring a high level of protection of consumer health and safety and other product users. For these reasons, the bill has been done with great care and above all with a commitment to finding a way to achieve the highest possible degree of harmonisation with those EU rules, to the extent that these rules are applicable before our country's accession to the EU. The law regulates the general safety of products placed on the market, the criteria for assessing the conformity of products with a general requirement for the safety, obligations of manufacturers and distributors, the conditions and means of information and exchange of information relating to the risks posed by the health and safety of consumers and other users, the consequences that can cause risks, the measures taken and which are taken to withdraw these products from the market and recall them by consumers, as well as the conduct of controls. When it comes to supervision, the significant role of the customs authority and the co-operation between the Customs Administration and the market surveillance authorities is determined by this law, it is precise to state the procedures, powers and measures of the competent authorities in the light of the reasons for taking the measure. The law provides for the obligation to place on the market exclusively safe products and prohibiting the production of imports and placing on the market of misleading products. The law provides the basis for progress in the area of greater product safety and the functioning of market surveillance in the Republic of Serbia, so that in the day of voting we from the SNS, MPs, will support these draft laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62698	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62699	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers and associates, are ahead of us to amend and supplement the General Product Safety Act which means further harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation and good practice. The product safety Regulation shall ensure that only safe products are sold on the market. Traders and producers should only sell those products that are safe and notify consumers of potential risks. They must also enable any dangerous product present on the market to be monitored and that it can be removed if it poses a risk to consumers. The open Serbian market for global products also imposes a responsibility on the responsible authorities to protect the market and consumers in one way that represents a higher level of protection, i.e. product safety, especially with regard to the definition of misleading products where they explain the risks they carry with them by misleading non-food products, but with their looks, they are a reminder of food and can be dangerous to consumers, especially children. In addition to previously prescribed that the obligation of the manufacturer to place only safe products on the market, these additions and amendments to the law are introduced a clarification where products are considered safe. The application of the principle of good practice in product recalls, with this law becoming wider, so the intention is quite clear, which is that the economic operators that produce, sell on the EU market have the same way of dealing with the Serbian market, when it comes to good practice of withdrawing a non-secure product in the initiative of the producer itself. This puts consumers in the same rank in our country with consumers of the same products in EU countries. The law creates an environment for economic operators to be treated the same way, our consumers with EU consumers. In particular, it is an important principle for the public to be introduced, as information relating to the safety of product characteristics must be published if circumstances require it to protect consumer health and safety. It particularly points out that consumer health and safety are the most important and that it is in front of business secrets. In particular, information on product identification, existing risks and measures taken in cases where provided for will be made available to the public. As regards the functioning of the national authorities, this law lays down the competence of the market inspection for the general safety of all products, which is, in my view, necessary, in order to round up the control component, with the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection in the case of misleading products. I point out one mechanism that points to a potentially higher degree of co-operation between state authorities and economic operators, which is also a newspaper in this law that will be promoted and encouraged by the competent state authorities to act as producers and distributors on a voluntary basis, including, where possible, the adoption of rules on good practice. Manufacturers and distributors who appear on the market in accordance with good business practices first have knowledge of any shortages of products that reduce or completely eliminate the safety of this product, so it is logical that they are the first to react and to produce a withdrawal from the market before there is damage to consumer health. It is the obligation of the competent national authority to periodically implement a control programme according to product or risk categories. The competent authorities shall take into account complaints and other consumer submissions and other interested parties concerning product safety. It is even more important that state authorities inform consumers and other stakeholders about the measures and procedures taken. Finally, this law prescribes a ban on the production, import, export and transport of misleading products, which, by their misleading appearance, endangers the health and safety of citizens, especially children who can mix such a product with food products, which can lead to very serious health consequences, even children's lives. The general safety of products governed by this law is an important segment of the legal framework in the area of consumer protection, according to the highest standards known today. This law creates an environment for achieving a high level of health protection and consumer safety, and at the same time this law is an incentive to create an even more favourable business environment in our country. Of course, in voting day, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62700	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62701	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the General Product Security Act should ensure a high level of protection of consumer health and safety. The law stipulates that only safe products can be placed on the market. Production, import and placing on the market of misleading products is prohibited. Consumer protection and standardisation in the field of the internal market are essential. This law harmonizes with the application of rules, rules, competition and consumer protection, with the effect that only safe products appear on the market and that a high level of health protection and product safety is achieved. The criteria that define the safety of products shall be laid down. All this on the principles of co-operation and communication, with the possibility of taking measures from businesses. In its work, the competent authority shall apply adequate measures, proportionate to the health and safety of consumers. At the same time, the Law contributes to increasing the awareness of economic operators on their obligations and informing consumers about their rights and how to exercise those rights, with the possibility of taking measures based on precautionary principles. A system with software and databases at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications for rapid notification and exchange of information on dangerous products, through the inspection market sector, is a mechanism for market surveillance. The system in the Republic of Serbia serves to exchange information between competent authorities, as well as to communicate with economic operators, with a view to withdrawing or recalling products. The key is to define and apply the product safety criteria, as well as to establish market surveillance. All of this will lead to further improvement of the market economy, and will allow consumers to choose more products, in line with the prescribed criteria. The bill contributes to the development of the economy, the construction of a modern structure of trade, as well as the establishment of mechanisms to protect consumers and other product users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62702	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62703	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the General Product Safety Act. Why about that? Because there was a general anarchy on our market until eight or nine years ago. You could've found something in the shops that didn't have an atest, there was poison wardrobe, shoes, food, not to talk. It's better now, but not ideal. We're trying to really cut off these illegal roads, and as far as wardrobes, shoes, meat and everything, and it's really much better, but it's not ideal. Let's go from the beginning. The source - "Blitz." Let's just remember what it was like in 2018, when a group who imported 31 tons of rotten meat from Brazil was arrested. Imagine, 31 tons, that's 31,000 pounds, that would poison 100,000 people. About 36 tonnes of meat and meat processing, without proof of origin, has been seized and five people suspected of taking part in the purchase of this meat as members of an organized criminal group. There are reasonable doubts that this organized criminal group has obtained meat and meat processing without proof of origin, for the sake of further selling to customers for finished money. I'm just wondering what kind of people it is? Imagine to your own people, that you are bringing corrupt flesh to the people of the Republic of Serbia! They're not people, they're inhumans, they're unscrupulous. Does it occur to them that a child might pass away? It's desperate infections, it's poisoning. That's terrible. I think we should process these people and not punish them, because we're going to punish them with 50 to 500 grand, but that's very little, but they should be in jail until they rot. As is suspected, meat obtained from the AP Kosovo and Metohija has repeatedly been delivered to AMT "Traffic Trans 08", where it has been prepared for further sale. The criminal group provided a smooth transport of meat to Pavlović's company, Pavlovic is usually from Ćupre, by reporting the police's movements on the road from Užica to Ćupre. Terrible, my people, organized crime. How come they're not embarrassed? Where's the humanity? I don't understand that. The veterinary inspection has determined that meat is not to be used due to the expiry date, so it has been destroyed. Thank God. Certain packages have seen declarations of facilities from Brazil, some of which were still within the period of time, some of which expired for more than six months -- were then announced by the Veterinary Authority. The most meat in Serbia is imported, for the sake of citizenship, from EU members and fewer quantities from CEFTA, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia. In 2017, 130 shipments or 681,8 tonnes of cooled or frozen beef were imported to Serbia, etc., so as not to list anything else. It's okay. It's meat that's controlled. It is meat with certificates, not to cause panic in the Republic of Serbia. What I'm talking about is controversial. It happens because they are loose borders, especially around Montenegro. There's always a mob out there. Because it's easy to get to the Republic of Serbia thanks to bad people. Generally, meat in Serbia and the rest is right. The president of the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia, Goran Papovic, said it would be good to have information on exposed meat smuggling companies published publicly. I'm up for it, gentlemen. We often remain deprived of that information and the public conviction of unconscious traders, and cases like this end in a court of law and long-term proceedings. It's a much shorter procedure now, because we're simply networked and, remember, a few days ago when we talked about judges, over a million and a half cases were solved last year. That's how it works. When we're talking about these illegal or semi-legal or illegal slaughterhouses and everything else about the bad trade, there's been the closure of entire slaughterhouses that were traded with rotten meat a few years ago. The entry of smuggled meat into our country is a consequence of the so-called soft borders with Montenegro and Kosovo. It didn't happen again. There's always someone trying to get money in an easy way and I hope it doesn't happen anymore. Just a few sentences really about the law, because this is, I mean, even more important. We've been talking about the law all day, and I think our inspection and surveillance will be much more rigorous. The adoption of this law is necessary, because we are a candidate country of EU accession and, as such, we should transpose EU directives into our own legislation. The directive as an act, so that someone doesn't think we have to. No, you should. They, people, have an orderly state and have it for something like this a hundred years in prison. I hope they'll be with us. The adoption of this law is based on a national programme of harmonisation with EU legal assets and compliance obligations, competition rules and consumer protection, adopted by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with the expected effect that only safe products are placed on the market and that a high level of consumer health and safety is achieved. This law supports the application of technical legislation of voluntary standards in order to further improve the market economy, which gives businesses a better chance and consumers a better choice of products, which is good. The bill also contributes to the development of the economy and to the construction of modern trade in the integration of the Republic of Serbia into flows on the EU single market, which is good. The general safety of products covered by this law is an important segment of the legal framework in the area of consumer protection. The law should be encouraged to create a favourable business environment. The law should contribute to increasing the awareness of economic operators on their obligations and informing consumers about their rights in the area of general product safety. This law specifies the competence of the market inspection work within the Ministry of Trade Affairs. Speaking of inspections, there are fines. The fines from 50,000 to 500,000 dinars will punish the offence or any natural person or producer. As far as I'm concerned, I'd sharpen your sentence. Let the fine be 500,000 to 5 million. I think then this kind of fela of people, these evil people who are poisoning the Republic of Serbia, will be drastically reduced. What's 50,000 dinars? Well, that's 400 euros. He doesn't care if he imports 36 tons. He doesn't have that humanity, he doesn't need to protect it, he has to poison it. The fines of between 50 and 500,000 dinars will also punish a natural person or distributor for a violation if they import, export or place a misleading product on the market. It's the same thing. As far as I'm concerned, the fines should be much bigger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62704	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62705	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister and Associates, honourable Members of the People, today we are discussing, among other things, the draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose. Given that the public debate and the subject, in general, of the exporting of weapons, are currently ongoing these days, I too will consider something about it. Serbia has signed an international arms trade agreement, under which it is considered as one of the most important criteria when importing and exporting weapons that these weapons will not violate human rights. That, by the way, requires our law. The system of import-export controls in the areas of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods is in line with international obligations and standards, in line with the national-security, foreign-political and economic interests of the Republic of Serbia. The Department of Foreign Trade in controlled goods and arms, military equipment and dual-use goods, which is located in the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, shall, among other things, perform the personal registration services, legal and physical, for the conduct of foreign trade in controlled goods, the reception and issue of individual permits, the issue of end-user certificates, international import certificates and other documents accompanying external trade in controlled goods, issuing an opinion on whether certain goods are subject to control, or whether it is for its exportation, i.e. the import of the necessary authorisation and supervision and control of external trade. The right to use these services has all legal and physical persons, and import licences, i.e. Exports can only be obtained by registered persons. So there is a clear procedure that all domestic companies must respect before exporting. Any weapons and military equipment before export are controlled by the police, BIA, VBA, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, and only then does the Ministry of Trade issue a license. If any land is located on the so-called so-called land. The white list, which means that there is no UN blockade on arms and military equipment imports, Serbia will be able to export arms and equipment to the country. If the UN suspends exports to a country for certain reasons, it will no longer be on the white list. Serbia will not then export arms to the country either. Clear and unequivocal. Serbia last year exported military technology, weapons and ammunition worth more than $600m, which is about 14% more than in 2017. The projection is that the state will make between 100 million and 200 million more than last year. The prerequisite for this result is to continue investment and further develop the projects that have been launched. The state has invested more than 130m euros in eight plants of the dedicated industry since 2014, and an additional 50m has been allocated to the purchase of technology and machinery. The sector in Serbia employs about 12,000 people, some of whom are highly educated experts. According to a survey by the National Stockholm International Institute for Peace Research, the SIPRI abbreviations, arms and military services sales during 2017 amounted to $398.2 billion worldwide. I will list only some of the biggest exporters: South Korea has 1.4% participation, i.e. 5,575,000; India – 7,566,000,000; Israel 7,964,000; Germany – 8,362,000; Japan – 8,760,000,000; Italy 10,353,000,000 France – 21,104,000; Great Britain – 35,838,000; Russia – 37,829,000,000; and in the first place the United States with 57% participation, i.e. $226,974,000. In 2017, Serbia exported military technology, weapons and ammunition worth $498m, which is only 0.1, 0.2, 0.5% compared to the total world sales of weapons and military services. Now comes the spray political opposition and some NGOs to stop it all. Vuk Jeremic again tried to launch an affair in Serbia over the famous export of weapons, calling for writing foreign electronic media. Terriblely reliable data. So, calling for foreign electronic media. He was followed by Zdravko Ponos, his longtime close associate, former general, chief of staff, educated mostly abroad and Marinika Tepic, a political flyer. Why do they mind exporting weapons from Serbia? Why do they pretend they don't know who the main players are, the arms exporters in the world? How come Vuk Jeremic, the same politician who is already involved in a major international affair of smuggling and corruption, is talking about it? How exactly did they find Wolf Jeremic to try to make everything a state affair? Is it possible that Serbia has taken over the lucrative business of its exactly its international smuggling palos? Is that going to be all right? Why? Because they cannot come back to power again, return to their chairs and continue to rob Serbian citizens, and this is confirmed by the latest public opinion survey, which makes them terribly nervous, as my colleague Marija Obradovic said nicely. So again, the absolute lie is everything that the Vice-President of the Freedom and Justice Party, Marinika Tepic, has said about the alleged arms trade. Jeremic, Ponos and Marinika Tepic are probably dissatisfied that they do not have the hand to convince the Serbian public that some there is Alexander Obradovic a hero. It is the same one as they call it, the alarmer, and his lawyer denies it, which for five years he filmed and brought out "Krusik" confidential documents and photos of business and taught them to foreigners. He did all this on behalf of revenge and for the sake of personal interest because his mother was removed from the director's post, and today she works at a company that is a direct competitor of Krusika. So much for those who are bothered by Serbia's progress and who would like to stop the export of military weapons and ammunition techniques, as if the economic branch were exclusively reserved for some other exporters and other world powers. I think the proposed laws are good and we should adopt them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62706	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62707	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, need greater participation from all market surveillance authorities that seek to prevent the placing on the market of dangerous products. I fully agree with the presentation of counterpart Ljiljana Malusic, who said the sentences should be bigger and the range should be smaller. In the context of the project, which provides for a number of inspectors to regulate and control the done information management software in the area of market surveillance that improves the databases. In this way, the Republic of Serbia participates in the Single Market of Europe and raises the level of protection of consumers and other product users. Also, this system serves to inform the public about dangerous products. Information must be made available to the public without making requests for the availability of information. The application of this law will significantly affect the prevention of unfair competition, as it will establish simple and clear rules for manufacturers and distributors regarding production, imports, distribution of exclusively safe and harmonised products. Citizens will also be informed of the nature and seriousness of the risks to health and safety of the measures taken. It is only in the coming period that we have a fight to bring our products into line and be the same quality as products in Western European countries, and we will discuss this later. Product safety is just one of the many requirements that today opens or closes the door to manufacturers from around the world in markets not only the EU. There are a whole range of different requirements that need to be met in terms of product safety, which all depends on the type of product, purpose and target group to which they are intended. It should be recalled that even in ancient Roman law there was a regulation “caveat emptor, ” which translates“ let the customer be careful. ” The Republic of Serbia, through the Law on General Product Safety and the Food Safety Act, is promoting practices and procedures that would guarantee the general safety of all products to domestic consumers. The improvement of this law ensures that only quality and safety products are found on the Serbian market, thus protecting the health and safety of its citizens. The full legislative regulation relating to product quality control should be in line with EU and World Trade Organisation requirements, with a much greater responsibility than the country will be given to the producer, who will be the greatest responsibility for its products, and we also advocate the maximum penalties. For several reasons, Serbia must apply modern international standards in the area of product quality, as the world solutions checked remove barriers to trade, but provide a high level of product safety and protection. Quality standards should be guaranteed that a dangerous product does not occur on the market, i.e. consumers. Each country, including Serbia, when entering the World Trade Organisation, must, in addition, guarantee a code of good customs and standardisation. Serbia will be asked to apply international rules and the state will be obliged in part of technical regulations to guarantee non-discrimination, not to allow baseless barriers to trade, to change the outdated and to bring new regulations, which we are doing here. Following a new EU approach, products must be marked with a C sign, and the main objective is to ensure a high level of consumer protection and proper functioning of the internal market. Let me remind you how many times they are, for example. Toys were pulled off the shelf, so-called. the incorrect declaration, but it was not the only failure of traders, i.e. importers and distributors, because most of them did not have an adequate r or confidence in quality. When it comes to technical devices, it is said that the situation is very worrying. Enough tells us that only the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia has received a large number of complaints in recent years about the correctness of these technical devices. Of course, both cars and in the departments of the Republic market inspection there are applications. The amendments to the law are about to protect Serbia's citizens. As far as food products are concerned, the situation is much more favourable than before, but we cannot continue to be safe and calm, and therefore we make changes to the law in order to be more protected. All of what we're talking about today is that we all agree on one thing, and that's security and protection for us and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62708	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62709	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the General Product Safety Act. The amendments and additions proposed will improve Serbia's legal framework in the area of consumer protection and public health, which concerns the safety of non-food products. We are talking today about amendments and additions to the Law adopted in 2009, and the adoption of these amendments and additions is also important because of the negotiating Chapter 28, which reads "Protect consumer protection and public health", given that Serbia is on a European path, but it is important that Serbian citizens know that the purpose of these changes is to ensure that products placed on the market are safe for consumers. Important changes are those relating to the concept of a product within the meaning of this law. The relevant law applied only to final products, and now it will cover all products, including those that are not final, without which certain final products cannot be used. Also, important changes are in the part where the definition of misleading products is complemented. Therefore, this bill, i.e. amendments and additions, explains in detail what risks they carry with them by misleading non-food products, which, with their looks and all their other properties, smell, taste, form, remind them of food and as such, can be dangerous to consumers, and can especially be dangerous to children. Therefore, the law prohibits the production and placing on the market of misleading products. The aim of all these changes is to ensure a high level of consumer health protection and safety. They shall also be carried out and supplemented in the work which determines the obligations of the manufacturer by now giving the manufacturer the possibility of recalling dangerous products, applying the rules of good practice. If the economic operator operates in another country and applies the rule of good practice there, the rules can also be applied in Serbia, despite the fact that this practice in Serbia has not been established for certain types of risk. Let me explain plastically for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. For example, if a business operator operates in another country and operates on the Serbian market and he withdraws some of his products from the market in that other country as dangerous, in accordance with good practice, that is, the business code, he should also do so in Serbia. The paper is that the competent authorities will encourage and promote the functioning of manufacturers and distributors on a voluntary basis, as I said, regarding the application of the rules of good practice. The law also states that the competent authorities are obliged to accept and to take into account complaints by consumers regarding product safety, but also to provide them with feedback to the same consumers. As regards criminal provisions, a new member also provides fines for the physical face of the manufacturer and distributor. So far, under the applicable law, there have been no penalties, or sanctions for a natural person, and penalties for a legal person for a commercial offence are prescribed. All these changes I spoke about today will ensure a high level of consumer safety and health protection and therefore SNS MPs will support legislative proposals on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62710	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62711	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, when we talk about the proposal for a general product safety law, the first question is what is a safe product because it needs to meet health and safety standards to avoid all health risks. What matters most is well-organized inspection surveillance. Thanks to the standardisation of our rules with the EU, Serbian citizens will be at a lower risk of buying goods, so that we should no longer be able to buy products that are health-threatening and which are withdrawn from the EU market. Accordingly, the general product safety directive, aimed at informing the European Commission of the measures taken for serious and direct risks, in addition to the risk prevention and surveillance of product safety. They are alarming and worrying about our children's favorite toys arriving in Serbia by smuggling. For example, the Ministry of Health found an alarming amount of the chemical element of the pine by examining samples of the popular toy of children. Children rarely put this product in their mouth, which can lead to poisoning, stomach problems, inflammation of the skin, irritation, vomiting, headaches. It's a similar situation with drugs. That's why I'm appealing to citizens not to buy drugs on the market just because they're cheaper and whether or not the drugs have expired. These drugs are absolutely insecure and are at risk of endangering health. Smuggling goods is a health hazard. Products sold on black do not pass quality control and health correctness of the product. Thanks to stricter application of regulations and controls last year, a large number of products were withdrawn from the market. We have a series of examples. The drugs were withdrawn - eferalgan, wounded, ranitidine, in 2017, the creams “Cypiripi” and a number of other products which have been identified as harmful to the health of citizens. Of course, the most attention is to food safety. One of the most sensitive questions for every society and great efforts are being made to ensure that the food we eat is safe, that it does not contain viruses, bacteria, parasites or chemical substances, causing more than 200 diseases from diarrhoea to cancer. However, each side can be contaminated at any time of distribution and so it is important that we send mobile teams to control these products. Control is also enhanced at crossings, markets, markets, in fast-food facilities. It is rapidly working to create conditions for the development of the food industry in order to raise its competitiveness on the demanding world market. The budget singled out threem euros for laboratory equipment where food safety and quality are being examined. Thanks to the Serbian government's efforts, citizens see daily efforts to strengthen administrative capacity, coordination and education to ensure full security of food in the market. Serbia is developing in the right direction. It's heading towards raising the standard of our citizens' lives. I congratulate the government on all the results achieved. In voting day, the SNS will support all proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62712	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62713	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we also have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose, so I will begin my presentation with a current situation relating to alarmers from the Krusik factory in Valjevo. A lot of my colleagues have already talked about it because the situation was created by supporters of the Alliance for Serbia to use it against Minister Neboja Stefanovic. In this factory several years ago, there is a person who collects documentation about the business of a factory that is otherwise secret and the same documentation is delivered to third parties, including foreigners, including foreign journalists who are connected to a particular criminal mile. It is now up to the competent state authorities to do their part of the job so that we know what and how much damage it has actually done to the Republic of Serbia with this behaviour. Until then, we here in parliament do not have to talk about the details of the investigation, but since the whole case has received certain media attention and public attention, which is now interested, we can talk about how the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, abuse information and turn them against Serbia, against government, and even against the family of Minister Neboja Stefanovic. Nothing, of course, from what the Alliance for Serbia supporters say is true. On social networks, they spread lies that Aleksandar Vukic, prime minister and ministers wanted false alarmer Aleksandro Obradovic to be secretly arrested, to be secretly removed, but the media showed up and saved him, and then his defender, Vladimir Gajic, went on a tour of one of the TVs and said that police and BIA demonstrated force by coming to the factory for God's sake and arresting that false alarmer. So, you see, they spin in circles, they get lost in their own lies because they're only and only fed up with hatred against Alexander Vukic. Furthermore, when they have no arguments, they immediately put it all on party employment. That's how they started talking about Krusik. For God's sake, the SNS hires its activists. This is the attitude towards citizens, when we have no arguments, then we will charge Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Let's move on, let's see who's bringing those lies up. First, there is Miroslav Aleksic, and to remind you of him, Vuk Jeremic bought the party, and Vladimir Gajic, the lawyer of the false alarming officer, is with the same Vuk Jeremic, the head of that certain legal team. He now represents Obradovic as a political prisoner, and Aleksandar Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic are accusing him of his political persecution, which absolutely does not stand. I guess it's normal for them to undermine Serbia, keep secret documents, get classified information out. Secret information that applies even to our military industry brings out to foreigners. The means of their political struggle have been seen and so far they have been dirty, based on lies and imaginary structures, because their only ultimate goal is to discredit Alexander Vukic, because in all other ways, other than the elections, they are trying to bring him down from power. In the elections, of course, they can't go out and they can't come out, because they know they don't have the support of the citizens and then, of course, they're left with them to make up lies that they make up every day. There's another person I can't exactly call Mr. Bosko Obradovic. He, you know, has been breaking the laws of this country for a long time by breaking into institutions by insulting and harassing people by making performances that prevent the normal functioning of our citizens by putting pretty stickers on things that represent public good. He's bravest when a woman stands across from him, because he thinks we're a weaker sex, and I can tell him he's making a lot of mistakes. I guess his complexes are working now, so he announced he was gonna slap Alexander Vukic. He shows us daily what he would be like if he came to power. Bosko Obradovic says: "A colleague Vladimir Gajic", I don't know what they're colleagues for, I guess, because they're the same political commitment: "Give the name of this prosecutor and the judges to mark them immediately as safe for lustration and loss of work after the shift of this authority." That's all they can offer. I don't know what kind of persecution of political inexperiences Bosko Obradovic came up with when he came to power, since the government will never come, but unlike all of them, we will continue to work and these proposals by the SNS MPs in the voting day will have our full support, regardless of what the Alliance for Serbia's supporters are doing daily, that for Serbia's sake we don't actually work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62714	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62715	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, given that my colleagues have made all those arguments in favor of adopting the proposed legislative solutions. Today is the 297th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs and receive their salary neatly. What I expected was that at least Marinika Tepic and Bosko Obradovic come to the Assembly today when we talk about exports and imports of dual-use goods. Why them? Because these days they have been making up the worst inventions regarding the failed attempt to construct an arms affair, which is actually a simple attack on Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, but also on members of his family. I think of my father primarily, but I can see that lately, the object of the attack and the other members of his family are, in particular, a brother. So from Marinika Tepic we could hear scenarios and conspiracy theories that are in the ranks of science-fantastic films. She even beat Boška Obradovica. Who listened to all the things that Marinika Tepic was saying the other day at a press conference here in the National Assembly's hall, might have thought she was actually reading a script for some science fiction movie, with elements of thrillers, but it actually turned out to be a comedy issue, because Marinika Tepic didn't even try to provide any evidence or anything meaningful to say that she supported those conspiracy theories. And it doesn't matter, say whatever you want, accuse whoever you want, it doesn't matter that it doesn't have any basis, it doesn't matter that it doesn't make any sense, it doesn't matter that all the competent and relevant institutions in Serbia have responded instantly, denied all possible allegations, provided concrete information about this called affair. It doesn't matter what the defence industry of Serbia is at risk. It doesn't matter, which this is called an alarmer, and then it turns out he's not an alarmer, because it's known that the alarmer's status is being obtained by law, as much as this Gajic has tried to present him as an alarmer, and from the first moment he knew that he doesn't have that status and that he's taking pictures, he's presenting classified documents for who knows what reasons, and I don't want to get into it at all, so nothing is important, it's just that every day and at any cost, Nebojsa Stefanovic, the other members of the SNS leadership, Aleksandar Vukic, who is their daily target. Why? Because that's what their boss, Dragan Gilas, ordered them to do. I guess they're counting on trying to invent and construct an affair, to distract attention from the biggest possible affairs in the country, and in every actor, it's Dragan Gilas. I guess they think the public in Serbia will forget to owe answers to questions about how he gained 619m euros. Where did 25m euros of personal property come from, if he claims to have earned only 74 000 euros in the Czech Republic? That errand boy that's been running around Belgrade, Marko Bastic, he's a little kid for him. He's only been caught with 13,000 euros. He tried to smuggle them out, so they caught him. I guess he's still young, so all he thinks when he grows up, he'll be like the boss, Dragan Gillas. To the very end, I would like to make some recommendations, given that she is the fireman of these conspiracy theories, here, I am running for her several world-wide popular conspiracy theories. There's a theory that the country isn't round, there's a theory that man didn't even land on the moon, there's a theory that reptiles rule the world. Well, she's full of Internet stuff, so she loves it, and she's interested in it, so I recommend it, so if she has a chance to read and be interested, it would be nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62716	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62717	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have already heard during today's debate, the MPs of the SNS will support the proposed legislative solutions, of course, that those directly concerned the interests of Serbian citizens, when it comes to the quality of the products, that is, the services they use, and in that other part, it is part of the proposal. As far as further progress is concerned, the rise in otherwise high levels of successful business in the Republic of Serbia and the topic is generally one important thing for Serbian citizens is one of the breaking news for today. Congratulations to Serbia's citizens on the fact that for 2020 and the Doing Business List, new progress of the Republic of Serbia has been recorded for an additional four seats. So, compared to the previous year, we were ranked four positions better, we as a state, and today Serbia is the 44th place in this prominent list. Out of the fallout region, Serbia has made progress compared to the previous year. Many have even gone backwards, others have stagnated, and for Serbia this is important, and every time we talk about this list, we explain again why. Because those who are thinking about investing in this region or thinking about investing directly in Serbia, are necessarily consulted with the data published by this list and when they see that Serbia is making progress, when they see that in certain categories it is extremely good, here, for example, we have made perhaps the most drastic, in a positive sense, the most dramatic leap in the building license category, then these potential investors are encouraged and become investors in practice. Serbia came from 36th place in 2017, in this category of building permits, to 11th position. And it is certainly important for us to continue to attract investment, it is certainly important for us to create new jobs, because this is not only to further reduce unemployment, which is now around 11% compared to 2012, 2013 and then 25%, or 26%, left us with the former regime. That's much better. But, of course, Serbia has a clear, strong interest in further reducing unemployment, in providing additional jobs for our people and, of course, that whenever we are in a position to ensure, we make sure that these jobs are also the best possible. In this regard, of course, I will also take advantage of the opportunity, as others today have done, to welcome the arrival of German investors who have confirmed among the latter that they are opening new production capacities in Serbia, as this implies not only a significant number of new jobs, but the most qualitative jobs possible. It is, therefore, about that famous IT sector, but also advanced technologies in the engineering sector and related to aviation components. So, it's about the salaries that were planned for more than a thousand people, who averaged anything that we talked about in this room, when we were giving the best examples so far and said there were jobs that provided for the implementation of the wise policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, valuable people in the Serbian government, because a thousand, 1,500 euros, and these last investments, even that went beyond that. So, in every sense, this is important news for everyone in Serbia and, of course, a clear indication that this type of results we as a state to provide absolutely we can and there is no doubt that we will continue to do so in the future. The dual-purpose product, which we are specifically talking about today, does not fall strictly into the category of what is called weapons, military equipment. It is a category for itself and implies the highest possible level of caution and appropriate standards that must be met, double purposes, as the name suggests, means those equipment that can be used both in military and for civil, commercial purposes. But, of course, it is inevitable that today we are talking about both goods that belong to one and the other categories because it is important as a topic and because there are many things that Serbia needs to know, among other things, and that it notes with great satisfaction. For all those who did not follow this debate maybe a day or two ago, there are also lists, not "Duing Business List" now, but each other, but lists that follow issues about how transparency is present in the realization of arms exports and military equipment from a particular country. I'm saying this because of this tragic farce that they're trying to impose as a sort of affair that these Gilas followers, which is what the people of Vuk Jeremic's environment, although the truth is for the will, it's all the same and there's no difference between them. But, taking out a bunch of brutal lies, which, at the expense of the Serbian government officials, is, at the expense of the people of the SNS, and of course, they always have the basic goal of that Alexander Vukic himself and they don't hide it at all, these people brutally accused their own state, the Republic of Serbia, of, for, imagine, arms trafficking and military equipment, which is actually addressed to terrorists in the world. You know, these people aren't the first time they've shown they're capable of doing everything, and they're the lowest and most devious and most honorable possible that in this way you're burdening your own country only if they think it's going to help them deal with their own, how they're experiencing political enemies, Alexander Vukic in the first place, and then all the others who work with him together. But to show that they are all so beautiful, smart, and above all elite, the smartest in the world, and that they know something better than the rest of the planet, you know, sometimes we, however difficult and painful things are, are simply fun. That they know that Serbia illegally and incorrectly exports arms and military equipment without knowing the rest of the planet, that's what they told us. These lists the world uses and what the world makes up say something completely different. A list called "Barometer of Transparency" showing both quantitatively and qualitatively how much transparency there is in the process of exporting arms and military equipment from a particular country, Serbia is the fifth best country in the world, according to these parameters. This means that for Serbia, when you ask anyone in a serious way about this issue, anywhere in the world to be found, Serbia is absolutely well known and clear and what exports it, and what type of equipment it is, and what quantities, and which destinations, and which users, and end-users, since it is always a special category. It is so well known and clear that Serbia has been on the list for years in the top five, and for the last published report Serbia is better than one Germany, than one Germany that is the standard champion in this category. So that's what the world sees, what the world understands, and how funny it is that one Gilas or Milovan Brkic, from whom they've written all these pointless and puzzling hints, think they're smarter than the rest of the planet along with all the others that go under their hands, so let's leave one of the topics for us in Serbia, such a local character and significance. Co-operation in this domain, which, therefore, concerns, above all, security and defence for each country is of first-rate importance, for every country in the world, and it must be for Serbia and certainly for Serbia. With this in mind, during the last visit of the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr. Medvedev was discussed, and it is important for the citizens of Serbia to hear, and military technical agreements have been made and new agreements have been made on an interstate level and we can already say that we are progressing further in this regard, with all those, not good, but fantastic programs that we have already implemented and which mean that our military air force has been significantly strengthened, that we no longer have to worry, and that we have no longer to be confused, as we had to have in the resource of one plane by 2012, there was perhaps a MiG-29 one that could fly, and perhaps a year later we had to land. Today thanks to those programmes implemented personally by Aleksandar Vukic, working tirelessly, day and night, developing trust and co-operation, but building Serbia's strong position as a reliable partner, we can say – it is the second order of size. It is a completely different order of size when I talk about how much Serbia today is equipped and able to protect its interests in this domain and when it comes to armored units, again on the basis of the agreements we have formed with the Russian Federation, but also on quality PVO systems. Another important thing the citizens of Serbia should hear today. Our country has received systems S-400 and "Pancer S" and will be used during the joint military exercise of our army and the air-cosmic forces of the Russian Federation, and as agreed, as confirmed personally by Vladimir Putin, "Pancer S" will remain in Serbia. So this type of result in one country is possible when it is done seriously, possible when working hard and, of course, when there is appropriate knowledge behind it. We can say with a full heart today – Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic and whose government the SNS is gathering shows that it is absolutely capable of all of this. It's not just the arms sector, military equipment or the dual-purpose system. When we talk about vital infrastructure with our partners from the Russian Federation, among other things, we are also working on building railways, which is the infrastructure of the species we have also waited for for decades, as we have been waiting on numerous highways that Serbia today is literally networked from the end to the end of the country. Railways and roads, highways and telecommunications infrastructure are being done today in this country, it is being provided today in this country and this country and this people will remain, to be used in all the good years ahead of us, during which we will be working on these new factories, which we are talking about all the time, and to further improve the standard of living for people, to fight for even greater wages and these expected 500 euros on average in about a month from today, of course, to overcome the first chance we kidnap, and we will certainly kidnap it, if we continue to work seriously and responsibly. That kind of relationship can't be ruined by anyone in the ranks of the former regime, the failed tycoon, the tycoon, the fascists, and you know what kind of bulument they're gathering on that side. No matter how hard we try, and if the citizens of Serbia know it, and they try every day, they try very hard, they simply sweat down their faces, how hard they try to arm their own country, to endanger their credibility wherever they can, to endanger their friendships. The friendships we have, for example, with the Russian Federation and the Russian people today tried to endanger the great diplomat of the world rank Jeremic Vuk, a man who knows everything best, so among other things he knows just as well as he knew, you remember, he won't see Alexander Vukic, so he was there two days later, as he knew Vladimir Putin wouldn't come to Serbia, so two days later he personally decorated Alexander Vukic, as he knows there were elections in November, and that Vukic fell to Easter, and all of his other stunts. That's how he knows today, and he had enough nerve to say for "Rasa Tudej" television that Aleksandar Vukic would sell out everything in this country, and then introduce Serbia into NATO. It is a shame that Jeremic seems to have missed, when he went to the shoot, that he and his closest associates, when he met with foreign diplomacy in confidence, spoke exactly what he was trying to accuse Alexander Vukic. He said he personally advocated that Serbia be a member of the NATO Pact, both he and those of him. To be precise, the depecate bearing the 07 US NATO 484 mark speaks of the event since 5 September 2007. He says literally, I read from word to word, at a meeting in NATO's headquarters, the Spanish representative asked what level of co-operation with NATO Serbia wanted to achieve, and what Jeremic, who participated in the meeting, unfortunately this country, responded as its representative – full membership, Jeremic then said in NATO's headquarters that Serbia, run by Tadic and he advocated full membership, was entangled, recalling the North Atlantic Council that President Tadic also told the secretary-general. One of the vice-presidents of Jeremic's party Zdravko Ponos, according to a note from Depeche 06 Belgrayd 842, made a great impression on his conversators, the impression that he personally ensures that the military takes such orientation and attitude to be in the best American interest, as the man who put this note together said. Beleška 06 Belgrayd 880 since 2 June 2006, according to Ponos, Jeremic's best associate, that the determination of Serbian armed forces is finally NATO membership. So, so much for what anyone had to say when they thought it was in the comfort of closed doors, and they must inevitably see the light of day. And who's trying to trick and lie here today? The citizens of Serbia know very well both this and such Jeremiah and that and that of Gilas and these accompanying court, who throughout God's day do nothing but hysteria at press conferences, invent world conspiracies, conspiracies of service and extraterrestrials, and seem to have a fundamental problem in a very simple, trivial fact that is not so complex that it has to do with either world conspiracy or life outside the planet Earth, but rather with some fairly simple earthly occasions. They got in a fight with each other, stole each other, and now they can't determine where the money is. That's why they don't have an MP club, no organization, looks like they don't have the savings they've been counting on, but they have each other. They have each other and as long as they have Dragan Gilas, there will certainly be some change for their needs, in the form of suits, service, and what they are most interested in in. As they deal with these and such matters, Serbia will deal with its needs, its interests, to ensure that these interests are protected in the best possible way and that Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS has shown, it is able to do so with great success and will certainly continue to do so with great success in the future, because the people here decide who will lead the country. The people here decide what future in this country is to be chosen and built and the people when asked, in about four or five months from today, they will surely say again to the absolute majority – they choose the policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62718	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been one anomaly in Serbia for 19 years, which absolutely no one cares about in this so-called. The harmonisation process, which is the adoption of European laws, which comes down to a mere copying from the English language, without respecting and taking into account the specificities of Serbia and Serbian society. So, the laws we adopt, which after we boast of some progress, are foreseen for some other countries, and just copying these laws and introducing us into our legal system, the first thing that will not bring us anywhere closer to the EU, and secondly, we will not improve the situation in any of the areas that these laws deal with. I will remind you, the former finance minister at the time of the signing of a famous Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is one of the sources of all our problems regarding imports, said it would enter history, which he signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because that is why Serbia joined the EU. Another minister who later served as prime minister, Mladjan Dinkic, otherwise known for the biggest robbery in history, perhaps in Serbia's history, but certainly in the last 30 years, said they were looking forward to a ramp on Horgos, along with citizens of Serbia, rose and then Serbs finally joined the EU. Before that, some had promised in 2007, etc. In 2013, Aleksandar Vucic says – after receiving a date for the start of the 2021 negotiations, then in 2025. So we saw in the last term of the European Commission, and in this one, not only is it not one of the enlargement priorities, but enlargement does not exist at all. On 1 June 2013, the European Union extended the moratorium to Croatia and there will be no more new members. Now various models of co-operation between other European countries that are not in the EU can be invented, but EU membership is just a colourful lie that serves as a kind of political pressure on certain countries, something today called the Western Balkans, whatever it is, that they unspeakably meet all the conditions that come from Brussels, especially as regards the economy. Now, if we had one serious government that could see that the harmonisation process cannot be with any participation of Serbia, because these laws are accepted for granted, so instead of lying to ourselves here that Serbia has more growth than Germany and that there is a golden age and that wages and pensions are never higher and more and more, we should do one comparative study and compare the experiences of certain European countries that today are members of the EU, countries of Eastern Europe, the former Socialist bloc, to see how they have passed as members of the EU, what they have all had to do and what is the situation in those countries after about a decade of membership. So we could do a few things. First of all, what is common to all countries is a huge eviction and a negative natural growth. Now, instead of targeting Germany's growth, we should see what Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia are doing, as they have passed as EU members, and here we will see that in less than 10 years, all three countries have lost a minimum of 10% of the population. In Croatia, the next census will be the first time under four million people. More than 400,000 differs from the population of Croatia 10 years ago, in Romania two million less than in 2011, in Bulgaria 700 thousand less. That's the facts. What is also a myth in Serbia is that Serbia's EU accession process guarantees us some funding from European funds, so we can invest, use it for free, etc. I would really like to see the criteria being adopted in this Office for Co-operation with the EU and the Ministry of European Integration. Is it possible that there is someone in the government of the Republic of Serbia who thinks that you can get free money somewhere, that you can get a free lunch somewhere and that someone will give us money here? If we get some money, they're not even close to that figure first, and we see it from the experience of Bulgaria and Romania, which we are promised, but they're getting on a spoon and they're still tied to some political conditions, such as: certain things in our society that have absolutely nothing to do with economics or limiting sovereignty and trade, making rotten compromises with our territorial integrity. That's the facts. So what's going to happen here is the dictatorship of an institution so-called. The Washington Consensus. It has been very present in Serbia for 20 years. It's all about the IMF, both the budget and the price of electricity and the height of the salary and the amount of the pension. All in Serbia are asked by the IMF and it is nothing new and it is reality and it does not exist, as there is no independence in any other country in Eastern Europe in decision-making. This is the case with Serbia, unfortunately. Bulgaria had an external trade surplus in co-operation with Russia before joining the EU, and after receiving political pressure to focus on Germany, it must no longer co-operate with Russia, although it is in the Bulgarian national interest, Bulgaria today has an external trade deficit. Unemployment growth in each of these countries, both Member States and countries that have candidate status or are predicating to be EU members, everywhere for a minimum of double, and somewhere we have cases like this. a case in BiH, where unemployment is above 40%. Paradox, a huge one, that the EU is the most present in BiH. Currently, the main political figure in BiH is a senior representative coming from the European Parliament. A third of the judges of the Supreme Court of BiH are judges appointed by the European Court of Human Rights. There is nothing to be done in BiH, to form a government, to make any decision, until it has been nominated from Brussels before. So, the EU's most present, and to make the absurdity bigger, is the worst living in BiH. My colleague Milorad Mircic noticed well - if we are the best, imagine how to live in other countries. We are asked to compromise with our territorial integrity to get bigger funds, bigger investments, and we are told that unless we resolve the issue of Kosovo once and for all, that we will be much less in the future, that we will be poorer, that we will be unable to deal with other problems, etc. If we just looked at what happened to Romania and Bulgaria, we'd see that it's actually a lie. According to Serbia, Banat, Vojvodina, even in Belgrade, workers and physicists from Bulgaria and Romania who come to work with their belly for bread in Serbia can be found. Why? Because in Bulgaria prices are German and Bulgarian wages are paid. Such a situation is similar in Serbia. The same prices as in Germany, but the salaries are ten times less. That's why they're serving these countries to be high-priced, to be a cheap workforce, to be workers here like workers, for example, in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Indonesia, so on a mere European periphery. That's what we're promised, and that's what reality is. Public debt in each of these countries, and I say above all Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltic countries, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary increased by at least three times compared to before membership or before membership negotiations began. These are comparative experiences, such is the situation with Serbia. What, to make the paradox bigger, since Serbia signed the SAA and as another state union of Serbia-Montenegro has received a feasibility study, this is where a confederal community of Serbia-Montenegro was scheduled, a feasibility study that Serbia, of course, should one day become an EU member together with the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Then we saw afterwards that the EU has a special feasibility study for Kosovo and thus the EU recognises Kosovo's independence. The Brussels Agreement said lastly: "Serbia and the Republic of Kosovo commit not to block each other on the road to membership in international organisations." It's a reality. So compromise with our territorial integrity. What needs to be taught us now, what needs to wake us up, to sober us up, is recently what happened with Northern Macedonia and Albania. Look out, Northern Macedonia and Greece have signed the so-called An agreement from Prespa, which Macedonia, the former Yugoslav republic, changed its name to Northern Macedonia, promised to open negotiations from Brussels, to start with European integration, and then we saw a blockade and we saw that they had openly agreed from the EU and that from a European perspective for this region called the Western Balkans, whatever that means, there was nothing. What if something like that happens to Serbia? What are we gonna do? Trust someone with a word? Here, they tricked the first of our neighbors, which wouldn't fool us. What is the only possibility for all the countries of the former Socialist bloc, the countries of Eastern Europe where real socialism was a possibility of self-integration into NATO without the prospect of joining the EU today, and each of the sub-communist countries in Europe, before becoming a member of the EU, had to first become a NATO member. And what brings EU membership, of course, is a huge dependence on the bureaucratic centre in Brussels, so the economy should be completely dependent on the credit and giving that comes from the European administration, from the member states that are poorer, from some of the largest countries in Europe and the richest real drug addicts, who are then dependent on the giving they come from Brussels without any decision-making independence. The situation with Serbia will be the same. Likewise. Serbia is required to recognise Kosovo's independence through the signing of a legally binding agreement. Look at the policy of double arches. Cyprus has become an EU member in the 1970s. There is a similar situation there as there is here, therefore, there is a Republic of Northern Cyprus which is not under the practical control of the government in Nicosia, but the EU has recognised the situation on the ground and Cyprus has become an EU member as a whole, there has been no one asked to recognise each other, to confirm the statehood of each other and everything else, and today Serbia is asked to place the last seal on Kosovo's statehood, recognise Kosovo's independence, allow Kosovo to join the UN and then, in perspective, for about 50 or 100 years to re-negotiate Serbia's membership. It's, unfortunately, our reality today. What is also not discussed about Serbia and the EU's relations is that if we miraculously solve the problem of Kosovo's status, if we close all chapters, we should solve everything on a bilateral basis with all the Member States and candidate countries. So, not only with countries that are members, but also with those who claim to be members. Remember the experience, when unfortunately former Serbian President Boris Tadic gave up these negotiations with Croatia and did not block Croatia's EU membership. Imagine what will come to Serbia by Croatia? We can see that already now, it is a mandatory quota for Croatian MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia, it is the introduction of Croatian language as an official language, it is more than ten thousand hectares of territory in the city of Apatino and it is the acceptance of the Croatian version of the truth about so-called "the truth". The "dominal war" that legalises the huge Serbian aggression on Croatia, where we will have to admit that it is our fault that we attacked Croatia, it is our fault that 250,000 refugees are in "Storm" and we are to blame, because we wanted to prevent the renaissance of fascism during Tudjman's rule in Croatia. This is what will come from Croatia. The Netherlands will ask Serbia to officially, not only through the assembly declaration, but to do all it can to recognise that genocide took place in Srebrenica and that Serbia is responsible for the genocide. It's not not hiding. If they could block negotiations with Northern Macedonia because of much less, it is a reality that can be expected of Serbia. Nobody cares about that, and we pretend it doesn't exist. Serbia will be asked not only to join NATO, the deployment of NATO troops on Serbia's territory. We have done a lot, unfortunately, on this point, NATO soldiers have more rights today than was foreseen in the three-way pact between Hitler and Yugoslavia. We will have to influence Banja Luka, i.e. Republika Srpska officially integrates into something called unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are serious announcements coming from top EU officials as a perspective of problems and solutions in the Western Balkans. So, we will have to be accomplices to the liquidation of Republika Srpska, to admit that there was a genocide in Srebrenica, and of course to exchange ambassadors with so-called. Kosovo. Is such a membership necessary for us and is it necessary, so humiliating, given these experiences of Northern Macedonia and Albania? I don't think so. Encouragement should be in a different direction, which is that as much as possible to deepen co-operation with our traditional allies, sincere friends with whom we can co-operate without any political pressures or conditions, that is, the Russian Federation, the Euro-Asian Economic Community market, the Brix countries market, which is a much more economically powerful part of the world, the richer part of the world, and where the future of the world economy is, and not that, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic would say, we have slept through the fall of the Berlin Wall, we will now sleep through the EU, and we will give up our statehood, we will give them everything, and we will be let down, and we will be left without the state and without the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62720	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's over, but I just wanted to remind you of some things that, even though I followed closely, I didn't hear that we were talking about. In fact, when it comes to the Information Security Act, through it everything that should have been regulated legally is mainly what can be the protection and security of the communication system, through measures and communication technologies. However, it seems to me that we haven't mentioned enough in the proposal for this law the other side that must belong to the security-intelligence services. Because here in the security of the information system there must be this side of the security measure, not just the one concerning information technologies. So I think that, I mentioned it and I'm still surprised that it wasn't, I'm somewhere in July or August of the month, when the government was here and through those issues that were asked last Thursday, I've been talking to our prime minister and the government about the final adoption of a new national security strategy, and there's nothing further to do since. And why am I bringing this up now? Because I think what I said earlier, as far as information security is concerned, which is of fundamental, strategic importance for the security of this country, which must be introduced into the national security strategy and talked about exactly what I was talking about, what is the role and what are the tasks of the security service, or the security-intelligence system within national security. And I mean, I don't know what it predicts, nothing has been said during this debate on the subject -- what will be done to integrate and security services in providing the country's information system, and more and more as a country, we will depend on the security of that system. That's why I think we should work on it without hesitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-24-0.u62722	Thank you. Since there are no more reports of word, I am concluding a joint principled search of the motions of the law in point. The fourth and fifth agendas. We move to the sixth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Rule 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to business groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. Does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We are moving to a debate in order of the Members of the People's Parliament declared for discussion. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. The word of Miladin Shevarlic is a messenger of the people. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. They've given up. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
