ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-2.u61472	Dear People's MPs, honourable members of the government, Your Excellency, I am opening the twenty-sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. This special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by Parliament Speaker of the Czech Republic Parliament, His Excellency Mr Radek Vondraček. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself, His Excellency President Radek Vondraček. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the delegation of the Czech Republic Parliament's House of Representatives, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia who are attending today's session. I now call upon His Excellency Radek Vondraček to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-2.u61473	Thank you. Respect for my fellow Members, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it is my great honor to be in the country and in the nation where I feel at home. Thank you, Madam President, for your welcome and warm welcome. I welcome you on behalf of the other MPs from various political parties who have arrived with me. True, we are not as many as there were in 1926 when a special train arrived in the number of 72 members of the Czechoslovakia National Assembly, which is proof of the strength and sustainability of our relations, proof of friendship, alliance and brotherhood. It is a great honor for me to address you right in Belgrade, here in a glorious parliament that has symbolized Serbian statehood since the beginning of the 19th century. It is a great honor for me to address you, the representatives of the people who were already in 1835, when he struggled hard for complete independence, then adopted the Happy Constitution, a modern and liberal constitution, which greatly surpassed its age. This is a clear indicator of the democratic drive of the Serb people, which he showed back in the period when the powers of the time wanted to bend his spine with their strength. With our ancestors revolutionary in 1848, this in the monarchy didn't go hand in hand. Both of our nations have lived under other people's authority for many years. Our fight for freedom has often been common. During World War I, the Czechs fought alongside the Serbs. Then, together with Romania, we founded the Mala Antanta, and Serbia recognised Czechoslovakia even before it began on October 23rd 1918. Thank you so much for that. My great inspiration was our first president, Thomas Garig Masarik, who was able to move freely through Europe during the war and fight for the idea of an independent Czechoslovakia thanks to the Serbian passport. There's an interesting story about that -- when a bank clerk in London, who was a strange name Moravska, was very willing to answer Masarik that it was a famous Serbian word. This story for me is a symbol of the closeness of our peoples. I'm a proud Moravian, and I really spent my childhood a few feet off the coast of the Morava River. Perhaps one of you here in the O.R. can also say that he grew up near the Serbian Great or South Morava. You don't have to answer it, of course, but we may have a chance to talk about it later. Serbia can be grateful for its support in 1938, during the Munich dictatorship and for the later assistance of our resistance leaders who joined the Nazi fight. In the end, Serbia also stood by us in 1968 during an occupation of the Warsaw Pact army. In 1918, 1938, at the end but no less important in 1968 when you stood with us during the occupation of the Warsaw Pact army, as you can see, these are our fateful eights. You Serbs have always stayed on our side and missed no historic opportunity to help us and support us. For that we owe you our respect and gratitude, as he told me during our last meeting, our President Zeman, who greets you all, we owe you and we know what we owe you. If I were to add and convince all the historical and present examples of our mutuality and closeness, it might take up all the time my planned here with you. I look forward to the development of our mutual relations, and economic co-operation has successfully returned to pre-war contacts. Already today, Czech firms are in fourth place as the most significant investors in Serbia, and foreign trade has exceeded one billion euros, which is impressive. Also, there is much more, friendship, alliance and mutual trust to help and grow a common business. Cooperation in the area of overcoming illegal migration is also important. The Balkan road and other areas of internal security that have an impact on the security situation and on us in Central Europe. We very much appreciate the Serbian role in this and co-operation with Serbia. I also want to mention something else in common that our people have, and these are the Holy Brothers of Constantine and Methodius, the cartridges of our countries. I recently had the opportunity to speak to the head of the Catholic Church, Pope Francis. We agreed that they had a very important impact on our statehood, liturgy and literature. Also, for anchoring in European culture and civilization, the holy chief has reminded me that today with the awareness of common history, our task is to cultivate dialogue between Western, Central Europe and Southeast Europe. That is why I want here, on behalf of the entire Czech Republic, on behalf of political representatives and its citizens, to say that it is our wish to welcome Serbia into the EU. It's a solution we've always supported and supported. History clearly shows that the stability of Europe is not possible without the Western Balkans, and the stability of the Western Balkans is not possible without Serbia's involvement, not against Serbia's inclusion. You have our support in the security area as well. I respect that Serbia has no aspirations for NATO membership and declares military neutrality, but there is also room for co-operation within the OSCE, the Partnership for Peace Programme and in co-operation with us in the military area and in the defence industry. On this point, I can't help but mention the question of Kosovo's recognition, because that's what you all expect me to do. I'm sure you understand how hard this is for me, but I don't want to avoid it, because it's not done among friends. I am the president of the Czech Republic's House of Representatives, not directly foreign policy, but I represent all MPs and their constituents here regardless of preferences and attitudes. Kosovo's recognition was followed by different disputes in the Czech Republic and never had majority support in the Czech society. The House of MPs even adopted a decision calling on the government to make an effort to find another alternative solution and to see the future in all European co-operation and in joining the entire region in the EU. In fact, the government did not recommend Kosovo's recognition, however, it ended up in a particular situation, under pressure and under the impression of arguments that were not accurate and correct, which time showed. Of course, I know what words our Mr. President has said here about the possible withdrawal of Kosovo's recognition from the Czech side and what attention they have drawn to the whole world of those words. I know why he said it, and I'm very glad he said it, and I respect him for it, precisely because it's very symbolic of those words for the friendship of our peoples that I've just mentioned. I believe that thanks to him, there may be a new impulse in resolving the Kosovo issue. At the moment, I think it is honorable and fair to say here that we cannot expect a radical change in the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the recognition of Kosovo, because in the opinion of many experts, this is not possible. I want to focus that now in 2019, I am convinced that thanks to open dialogue, fair negotiation and measurement of the same archaic, we can reach a lasting understanding, and finally resolve this issue. It would not only be fair to ask Serbia for something, the West should also ask Kosovo Albanians to make moves, as has been asked of Serbia, especially as regards the democratic administration and the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and terrorism, respect for civil rights and minority rights, and also the end of enmity. Only if we're all acting civilized is it possible to think that we'll find some meaningful agreement. Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, I believe in the historical experience and wisdom of the Serbian people and its political representatives, I believe in good neighbourly relations and in a creative regional partnership that has proved so good in Central Europe and the "vessels four" and in cooperation "Slavkov" with Austria. I believe in removing barriers and Serbia's integration into the EU. Free trade must not become a victim of customs wars and short-term political ambitions. The Czech Republic must support Serbia's approach to the EU's internal market as freely as possible. I look forward to meeting together once in the EU and looking forward to our co-operation in Europe without hostilities and mutual injustices. As a message for the end, for the future, instead of my words, I will use the words of Serbian philosopher and linguist Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic, who was a great role model for our 19th-century politicians, saying, "When everyone does what is in his abilities, our peoples and our friendships will live." Madam President, I thank you once again for the invitation and I wish you MPs and the Serbian people good luck and success. Long live Serbia and lived the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-2.u61474	I would like to thank NJE, the President of the Czech Republic Parliament's Parliament, Mr Radek Vonderček for his address. I conclude the twenty-sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. At the same time, I call on MPs to attend the opening of the exhibition "Praška Spring", which we organised together with the Czech Republic's ambassador here in parliament. Thank you.
