ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65553	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 65 MPs are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stefana Miladanovic and Zarko Obradovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Aleksandar Antic, Minister of Mining and Energy, with associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I reject amendments from the People's MP Hadji Milorad Stosic, who is added after article 36 by a new member of 36a and who is added after article 38a. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an opportunity to appeal again to correct all that the previous authorities have ruined. The debt for pension and disability insurance of farmers, along with interest, is currently at over 160 billion dinars. That's what farmers can't pay for. If they will, they've got nowhere to go. With that in mind, other problems arise. Social assistance is often above the level of peasant retirement. The message to be sent is bad. Better to be a social case than a farmer. If you got those social rights in the country, you didn't have to pay anything. In order to achieve social assistance, someone often sells agricultural land to qualify for this type of financial compensation, or social aid. Farmers who pay pension and disability insurance and who at one point could no longer do so because of the bad laws passed by those who are now boycotting the National Assembly, for these reasons they broke up and grew large debts. So the number of farmers who are currently paying pension and disability insurance fell, and the result is that pensions are all 20%, pension funds of farmers are filled with 20%, and 80% are being touched by the state. I think it's time to regulate interest and part of the debt in a certain way and in such a way make farmers happy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65555	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65556	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 338th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs. They don't come to work for which they get paid neatly. In this way they send a message and show what their relationship to the function they perform is, a relationship to the National Assembly, but also to the citizens, especially to the citizens who chose them to represent their interests in this Parliament. I'm sorry that we came into such a situation, and it's obvious that they have a different approach to politics and priority matters they do these days, rather than doing their job. So these days we have this Spanish series going on in the DS, so in one part of the opposition, where they're arguing among themselves, where they're again by who knows what time they're going to go back to this Parliament, but they're missing their chief of staff's permission for something like that. Their top boss, all of them, and formal and informal is Dragan Gilas. That's what Branislav Lecic said the other day and publicly confirmed in his statement after a session of the main board or I don't know which party's authority, that decisions in that party are being made outside the party, outside the main board and thus unequivocally pointed out Dragan Gilas and thus confirmed everything we from the SNS have been saying for months, which is that Dragan Gilas is the head of all of them. Therefore, both in the DS and in all other parties belonging to that so-called so-called ‘D’. "The Alliance for Serbia". But what's unacceptable and what's strange in this whole story, look out like this, they divide between themselves, they argue over some functions, imaginary functions. So I guess they plan to perform some functions in the future, so in advance, they argue in these plans about the division of these functions, so they accuse each other of being majority MPs, or that they don't know what they are, etc. Then they say the SNS is to blame for it and blame the SNS for some interference. What does SNS have to do with divisions and disputes over functions in the DS? Who is interested in Balsa Bozovic and whether Balsa Bozovic left the main board or not? Who's interested in the Luthor, after all? Nobody cares about that anymore. So these are the people who won 2% of the votes in the Belgrade elections. Two percent of the vote. This second part of the sad opposition that is not in the DS, but is in the "The Alliance for Serbia" has been working for days to invent any affairs, inventions and some accusations aimed at SNS officials and, of course, Alexander Vukic. Every day, this series of lies, inventions, factory affairs continues without a single fact, without even one argument, without any evidence. It is our duty here to endure in the hall of the National Assembly at these conferences and through the announcements and in every other way. Then they get involved in their inventions, and then they get out by inventing new lies, inventions that then launch through their N1, "Today", NIN, "Time" and everything else, etc. I want to send from this place a message that 100 times the repeated lie will not become true when it comes to these called affairs, which are launched every day and which are exclusively directed towards causing political damage to SNS and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65557	Thank you. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65558	The spectacular announcement of a January 1st, 2020 pension increase, that pensioners who could simply calculate it themselves were largely unsatisfactory and humiliating for any shift for the poorest pensioners in Serbia. One who receives a pension, and indeed many, of the 10,000 dinars, can count on a raise of only 540 dinars. Col. Rističević did not mention the nominal amount of pensions of agricultural insurance companies, but you should know, Mr. Minister, that those who have succeeded, who do not have these debts that the state needs to settle and the huge interest accumulated by farmers, can count on up to 11,000 dinars of agricultural pension or family of only 8,300 and some dinars. Please explain to us, given that you are talking about increasing standards, you are boasting about a GDP of 4%, how is it getting better, how is the fiscal year you announced something that will recover in many Serbia, how will a pensioner survive with that money? The Serbian Radical Party has been telling you back two months since you came out with the 2019 Budget Rebalancing Proposal, and then with the new budget, that the minimum pension, here, is from the United Pensioners of Serbia, so let them also deny if they think otherwise, right, Mr Colakovic, to follow the minimum consumer basket, because if that minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars, then so must be the minimum pension and minimum wage in Serbia. We Serbian radicals would be able to give it to the citizens of Serbia. You wonder how? That's what we've explained to you. On the other hand, believe that a team of our ministers and, above all, our concept of development of all the branches of the economy would be such that we would be much more open to jobs and factories, start agricultural production, start and create new values, we wouldn't rely at all on these capitals of yours, under the circumstances, from the West, which you give huge subsidies to, and in return you took pensioners back five years from their pockets, and now you're giving them some increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65559	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65560	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, I agree with the government's opinion that the amendment should not be accepted. But what I must say and what is a clear message to pensioners in the Republic of Serbia, is that from 1 January 2020, pensions will grow by 5.4%. It is, of course, for every commendation and pension will grow year after year. Why? Because Serbia is an economically stable country, because the economy is on a healthy basis, because wages will grow from year to year more and more, because inflation is record low, or inflation is within the target range of 1.9%. So, pensioners who will get their pensions, they will be real and of course, out of these pensions they will be able to actually buy goods, products and other things, because of course prices don't grow, inflation isn't double, as it was at the time of the yellow tycoon company. Also, I must say that the SNS and our president, who was then prime minister in 2014, when painful but only possible fiscal consolidation measures were taken, and that there was also an account taken of this social aspect, or 60% of pensioners were not covered by a reduction, just knowing that there are a large number of pensioners with small pensions. Also, our President Aleksandar Vukic thanked the pensioners who knew and understood that the path of fiscal consolidation was the only proper and only possible for the safety, stability and sustainability of pensions. Pensioners don't have to worry about their pensions coming today. They come exactly on a certain day and will be exactly at a certain amount. I must also point out that during these yellow robbers, in various variants, in 2012, there was only one half of the pension funds left in the 2012 budget and imagine, this yellow robbery company from 2008 to 2012, in order to, of course, get votes and to keep as much social peace as possible, they, using lies and delusions, which today is their only political means, said that the global economic crisis is a chance. The global economic crisis was a chance for Gilas' private pockets, as he was rich by 619m euros, and citizens, pensioners and all others were poor. Any, it didn't come back. The only correct policy that retires and all other citizens leads to a safe, certain, peaceful and happier future is the policy of Alexander Vukic, the policy of this government, and this law is one of the examples of a proper, secure and stable pension system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65561	Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65562	Mr. Minister, here I am speaking to you, and I am replicating Milanka Vukojičić Jevtović as well. It simply reminded me that when she said this failed yellow company, she thought of these DS robbers and that entire DOS, like when she's saying this – she'll have such a nice life as pensioners, this increase, and I witnessed when Dusan Petrovic said when they increased pensions – it would be so nice that my mother would be able to buy kids, grandchildren to buy candy bars. Mrs. Milanka, are you aware that 350,000 pensioners receive a pension of 10,000 or 15,000 dinars and that their increase will thus be either 540 or 750 dinars? The fact that you mantrates – takes us to a safe future, President Vukic. Now you all think in your ranks, as the election approaches, each of you individually as many times as you mention the Wolf, your position is stronger. It's your right. I'm not getting into that, in your show. But please, these are real facts. In front of me, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, and also to you, the chairman, for using this mobile device, I have a rock. So, 10,000 dinars receive about 250,000 pensioners, 10,540 dinars, these fantastic 540 dinars of increase, thus dragging that pensioner throughout 2020. I use that expression on purpose, because he won't even be able to walk down the street from hunger. If you explain to me how he's going to buy drugs, how he's going to pay for everything he needs, info, or what it's called in other cities, electricity that's going to increase almost 4%, drugs that aren't available for most of these chronic diseases on a positive list to a sufficient extent. Not then, please, with this demagogue to get into the pre-election campaign. Actually, you can and it's your right, but we're just saying, we Serbian radicals, as responsible, serious people, this is not enough, this is little. The state has more money. He should pay back his debt to the pensioners and increase their pensions a lot more, so they can have a man's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65563	Right to replica, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65564	Thank you. Of course pensioners should have a man's life, but I also have to say that now, thanks to sound economic foundations, the security and sustainability of the pension system have been achieved. Thanks to the increase in the number of employees, the Republic Fund of PIO is filled, with reduced grant funds directly from the budget by 100 billion dinars. So we never said that pensioners live as best they can. What we say is that pensioners should not worry about their pensions, that their standard will improve year after year and that pensions will grow year after year thanks to the development of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to investment in capital investments, thanks to the number of employees. Serbia is at a historic minimum regarding unemployment. That's 9.5%. Why does it matter? Because there has been an increase in the number of employees, precisely those who, based on their incomes, are filled with the Republic Fund PIO. Unlike the yellow tycoon company Đilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and others, we are not in debt from expensive commercial loans, whose interest were 7% and 8%, but we pay our pension on real grounds. Certainly not enough, but certainly the SNS tends to increase the standard of living for all citizens and pensioners and employees from year to year and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65565	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65566	counterpart Vukojicic speaks as if the SNS was all that exists in the pension fund of Serbia, again I call on the gentleman sitting there, created suddenly, as if these generations had not created, as if there were not much property of the pension fund that the state should put into that fund. Isn't that right, Mr. Cholakovic? So these are all the things that exist as data. Let you know what's your story right now, that kind of stability, that economic growth. No one has ever supported any borrowing from the SRS. On the contrary, here is Veroljub Arsic, who was a Serbian radical man, who appeared every time, criticised all the duties of the Dossov Bulument, whether or not Arsic, the robbery privatisation. Where are the defendants now, the participants of all these Serbia's collapses until the famous 2012 when you came to power? Many of them entangled beautifully in high functions. I think the president of the Association of Economists of Serbia, correct me, Radeta, if I'm wrong, this Vlahovic or someone... He remembers Sinisha Mali on the Kopalnik with him at the Business Forum, because I know he's a professor. Vesenovic, the Honorable Dean of our Faculty of Economics, Vice President and Association, but as an expert, indeed, and an honest man, but one thief is set up like that. Yesterday, someone mentioned, again, I must look at my colleague Turk, probably that she knows, Verica Kalanovic and the famous National Investment Fund that she ran and had a ministry where she shared money and laundered money with her hands and hat, under the allegations, with her friends from the Serbian citizens' budget. In 2014, you appointed her as the executive director of the “Broadyard” and so on. (President: I thank you. You know, don't say you've broken up with that former yellow robbery regime. No, because many of them are in your ranks, many of you have protected them. Now let me say who in that show - oh, Zagorka, are you, she won't wake up... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65567	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65568	Thank you. Alexander Vukic didn't put a lock on three thousand companies. That's what the yellow tycoon government did and sent 600,000 people to the streets. Anyone who thinks that pension growth can be sustainable and secure without safe economic foundations, or without a real economy, is likely to be poorly understood in both the economy and social policy. I have to say that in 2012, when the SNS took over, it was in front of bankruptcy. That's what Serbian citizens know. I must also point out that pensions from 2014 to 2019 increased from 13.7% to 19.4%. Also, I must point out that in 2016, pensioners received one-off aid of 5,000 dinars. In 2017 also of 5,000 dinars. In 2018, the Pension Reduction Act was abolished, pensions increased by 5% and a single aid of 3,000 dinars was granted. In 2019, also here in the National Assembly, it was voted to give pensioners 5,000 dinars of one-off aid. Since 1 January 2020, thanks to the responsible SNS policy and our President, Aleksandr Vukic, pensions will increase by 5.4% and will be brought into line by the Swiss model, not according to the Budget and Budget System Act. Therefore, better days come to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65569	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, has the right to reply. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65570	It's all true, colleague Vukojičić, what you said about these robbers, and as you say, it's a very authentic expression of yours, Milanke Jevtović Vukojičić, a yellow company. You've said it so many times in person that I have it left. I agree with that, it is a yellow company, but just explain to me why they are so highly positioned at SNS functions or where you have control functions, the mechanism to set them up, are not processed? How is that possible? He told counterpart Janjusevic yesterday that they robbed Priboy, they did, that they robbed Kragujevac, they did, that they robbed Kruševac, all of Serbia's cities. Who did the robbery privatisation? It is Aleksandar Vlahovic who is protected, Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic. You keep returning the story. That's what they did. In these seven years, you've determined how you're going to lead, how you're going to recover the state. We are on the verge of 2020, and what will be this fiscal year and your policy? Now it's not a budget debate, but we told you, a lot more savings and with this kind of budget filling, you'd make the SRS, so we could increase our pensions and give our oldest citizens a better quality life. Someone said the other day, I think it was Vladimir Orlic, met some pensioners, and they thank him and say, "Oh, dear, for these 5,000 dinars we got, we'll buy a TV set." Who's gonna buy a TV? The one who has 50,000 pensions. He who has a pension of 10, 15, and 25 thousand dinars with that one-time aid of 5,000 dinars will watch him survive, pay his debts. I live in a town where pensioners have to, because it's a social category, almost 70 years old, to drive a cab, a cab that's cheaper five times than in Belgrade, and to live than 12 hours a day holding a wheel, to earn today to give their grandkids that candy bar, and those poor pensions to distribute if they still have a living wife and to combine it so they can get one of what comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65571	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65572	Mrs. Jovanovic, the people I mentioned are receiving a pension of 15 to 20,000 dinars. These people, two pensioners in the house, combined one-time support, had some savings that were never enough until that one-time support and bought, you know. You know what else? They don't drive a cab, they don't live in luxury, they're decent people, they're humble people and people, because they're decent and they're modest, they're real people. They're looking very well at what's going on in this country and those people, you know what else, they remember very well. They remember very well that they could never save for such a thing, and he had no one to think of and help them, as the state is helping them today, a country led by Aleksandar Vukic. At that time when the ones with whom you're walking around the Old Town today, I'm thinking about Dragan Gilas, and there's these others that you're with together in Old Town, this Bastac, this Miljuš, you know, that millions, literally millions, have been transferred to their businesses, to fund their own people, but it seems to me that some more people. There are representatives of the SRS who have been reported to receive salaries from their sponsors and their sponsors. So, at the time of these Gilas and his 619 million, following Bastache and others, you know very well which, since you know each other from Old Town, this has never happened. And do you know what happened to their pensions and what happened to their grandchildren' perspective? There was nothing. Serbia couldn't figure out what to do and what to survive one month, one month away from total bankruptcy, from a complete collapse, from the situation that there's no more pensions, and not for those 50,000 you mention, and not for those of 15 and 20,000 dinars, to come into a situation that can no longer pay for anything, and that grandkids can't dream of chocolate, or cookies, or anything else. These people know it all very well and they remember it very well, and just because they're humble people, smart people, and just because they remember it very well, who do you think these people vote for? Well, they say -- thanks to Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government, we could afford this today, and these people are voting for Alexander Vukic, the SNS... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... In a few months, these people in the vast majority will support those who take care of Serbia, those who are building the future, and about this Bastace of yours and the other robbers who burn books in Prince Michael, you know what they think, so let me tell you what I heard, they think the worst, and if you think you're going to get some other answer from them, you feel free to go ahead and ask them. (President: I thank you. You may go ahead and ask them. I'm just afraid you'll be very disappointed. If anything, maybe it makes you choose words a little more carefully next time because you know, these people don't like it when you underestimate them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65573	Thank you. The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65574	Excuse me, I'll be personal, colleague Orlic. Here's my mother. She's really angry. She's a decent woman. She's a retired. I think it always surrounds the list of the Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Seselj and does not know where she came from in that story, as well as her neighbours and many other pensioners who vote for Serbian radicals and there will be more. And even when it comes to politeness, she has a much higher pension than those of the categories I've read. I think it's about 25,000 dinars, disabled is the first category and can't really live with that pension, because 7,000 dinars only have to pay for the disease they have, because they're not on the RFO list and they don't have their children, a woman just couldn't survive for a month. Now you're telling me some fairy tales that pensioners who have 15,000 dinars, that's really amazing, could have saved. Here, now I'm going to find an example, let's say I'm not making a commercial for someone, the cheapest TV on the campaign can be bought for, I mean, less than 10,000 dinars. So they have to add another five grand to that five grand. And one and the other, you say, colleague Orlic, pensioner in the house, those who have 15 thousand decided that those poor 5,000 who received compensation, first said Aleksandar Vukic - will buy pigs, prepare this calendar New Year's Eve, will make Christmas, will prepare Serbia's New Year's Eve, will prepare a cross of glory, you have now come up with the idea to buy a TV. It's real, I don't have any further comments, it's amazing how hypocritical you are now, after all, and it insults the child's common sense in elementary school, let alone the pensioners who have come so miserablely to live and have so little pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65575	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65576	The answer to the question of where the pensioners in my story came from – because you mentioned them, from where you said it was impossible for pensioners with 15 or 20,000 dinars to do so and that it must be about some who have 50,000 dinars and drive a taxi. That's where my story came from. Let me tell you, it's not like that. First of all, let me tell you that's not the case. Second, what insults people? You know what insults people? For example, when someone like yours is told to them in Old Town, we will send help to you in the house. You see how nice the program is for this purpose, you see how much money we've set aside, so no service of that kind is performed, so there's no evidence that a service of that kind has been performed, but everything is well charged, so it's going to be charged in millions. And who's sharing that money? I mean, first of all, the Bastache who puts bags on people's heads when they don't bring him the envelope they promised him. Don't take my word for it, here's a safe and sound game of the case alive and on a case of health, his godfather, the hazelnut who was his right hand in the council, so he didn't give him an envelope, and now he's telling him what happened, how he went. By tying him up, torturing him, beating him for hours, putting a bag on his head to choke him. You know why? Because it takes money, because it's a little money, because it's not enough that Gilas has already transferred 619m euros to his firm's accounts, because it's not enough that Gilas himself reports 25m euros worth of real estate, because it's not enough that Bastaci, Miljushi and others, as much as for a decade, are there, by four million, five million on those services of the Geranto housewife. Hundreds of millions of embezzlements from the sports center. God knows how many tens of millions on a one-year level they just transfer to their people through some companies that allegedly provide specialist services, and in fact they pay off the batinators and those who follow them to a rate where fascist beer is carried out anywhere around the city center and all of it to pay for someone's councillors. You know very well whose. When you say what is offensive, it offends people. To tell them, it is for your own good because we will give you some service, so you will not give them anything, but millions will be transferred into private pockets. It offends people, and it offends most when after all that, someone gets up here and says, "Poor 5,000 dinars." Why don't you give 5,000 dinars to any of the pensioners in Old Town? You don't have to give them four. Come on. Come on. Come on. That's enough of the stuffing in your pockets. Give something to the people, because you know what's miserable? It's pathetic to act like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65577	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65578	I really don't want to comment on your obsessions about individual personalities, but I want what's insulting to the pensioners. First of all, I'd like to correct you. I didn't say at all that someone has 50 grand and drives a cab, but they have 10 or 15 grand, so they're forced to have unemployed children in the house, so they can support children and grandkids by driving a taxi and can make 500 dinars a day if they work 12 to 14 hours a day. What offends pensioners – in the old Raška area, especially in Novi Pazar is that you are in a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin who said that he will burn yes and that it will burn Novi Pazar, that your coalition partner Rasim Ljajic and your coalition partner at the local level Sulejman Ugljanin. And I'm getting a letter from a poor pensioner from Novi Pazar, and he's surprised that someone under the Criminal Code is being threatened with a sentence of at least 15 years in prison, your Dolovac is sleeping, and you're keeping quiet, you're peeling him in power, and you're giving him money from the budget, and that's what this pensioner from Novi Pazar, from Tutina, from Sjenica, came down to where you're with him, in Prepolje, in a coalition, and it insults a healthy man's mind. These stories of yours, you carry on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65579	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65580	If it had written to you all millions and 700 thousand pensioners, you would have done nothing but read the messages, and you would have won the elections. You'd win the election safely. Now, as much as you win the election, so much as you write to the pensioner, let me tell you the right. I don't know about the Sulleys and the rest of your men. I just remember very well that it is about people who are primarily interested in power, and I also remember very well that if someone told them – there is no power, no function, so it is Alexander Vukic. If you asked, I'm not sure what it would be or what it would be like, but as it is when Alexander Vukic asked himself, all of Serbia knows it. He said to them, "Forget your stupidity and blackmail, Sulljo, there is no function for you, no money, and now let the fairies do as much as they please, but they will not do anything." What does the pensioners care about? Let's say that amount of pensions and that support you call poor, which is absolutely unacceptable. Those people who follow these things closely, who remember very well what it is when and how it is, so they have something to compare it with today or January, they want to know whether it will be at least 14%, and up to about 19, 20% more and better than the mid-2014 period. These people, they trust their eyes best, and they trust their own pocket best. When they see that it is true, how many hundreds of thousands or millions of messages do you think you'll get as a card that the state of Serbia at the time it is implementing Alexander Vukic's policy has managed to secure 14 to 19, maybe 20% higher pensions. You know whose score that is. You know whose score that is. Someone can be a little bit sneezy. He can be unsatisfactory. He may envy or wish to find himself in the place of those who today in the country were able to provide that type of result, but unfortunately, as much as he understands those motives, there is no excuse for using those kind of words earlier. You want to talk about health care? How much has the health budget been increased, the one we discussed a few days ago? Well, just so you can treat pensioners, both young and middle-aged, anyone in this country. Who introduced the funds for the treatment of rare diseases? Who introduced the possibility of being treated abroad? Well, all the things that Gilasi, Bastacchi and others are saying today are you in charge of the Old Town. So who brought it in? Isn't one of them a coincidence? It's hardly any of them? Only then, when the SNS headed Serbia began to implement Alexander Vukic's policies. When Aleksandar Vukic led the government, for the first time, these funds were introduced, significant funds were allocated, and we are increasing both the funds and the number of people from year to year. We increase technical conditions from year to year to year for Serbia to be properly treated. We have all the things that are best and most modern, which we bought to provide our citizens with health care. We are building clinical hospitals in several places in Serbia. Who do you think these people are going to turn to tomorrow, not by message of support, let them all to you, but with a vote in the election, which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65581	Right to the Republic MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65582	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, there is no point in discussing it this way when it comes to the bill. This is very important and important for 1,700,000 of our citizens. We are not the ones who are going to break over our knees, as we say – Gilas is yours, or Suljo Ugljanin is yours, and then we go beyond the fact that this period is not forgotten when pensioners are taken against the pension system, with an explanation and an explanation that it is for Serbia's rebirth. Remember how many times we've told you here in this assembly that there's another way out of the financial crisis, and the last one that needs pensioners to damage it. We here insist on some things to look at themselves quite realistically, which is that pensioners should, in any case, follow pension rates in Serbia and not be below 50%. It should be in the Budget Law to build up a provision, at least to build up a provision that is a commitment of state and government, to return some of what was taken from the pensioners. You start bidding immediately. We told you. It was a financial inspection in Old Town, it was audit. There were irregularities in the budget, so what's different than the government to carry out what's in accordance with the law, and not here to bid on who's who. It's totally natural. Why didn't you give it to the opposition? So when we're in power, when we're in power. This is all we're telling you to do, and we're not talking about conflicting opinions with you, or auctioning some names here. We don't care about names. They all came out or went out under your shoe. It's always a rule, under the rails the authorities come out like Bastac, like Gilas and the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65583	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65584	Yes, there was an inspection. By the way, there was another one recently. After our last conversation, there was another conversation, and you can imagine what they concluded. So, a new pile, a ton of problems have been identified. You know what else? There's been reports filed. If you call on system methods to deal with their own, I don't mind, we talk all the time, yeah, we're up for it and applications are filed, don't be afraid of it. We talked about another thing here. I spoke to Vojislav Seselj and asked him what was wrong with political responsibility, don't you agree? He agreed that it was people who were not acceptable to the Old Town municipality, but also to Belgrade and Serbia. And I'm saying it's good that you think it's good that you think and reason it, just tell me one more thing, where's the political responsibility in the whole story, will you let them continue to be in power? Will you continue to support them or will you stop? He wouldn't give me an answer, he just said if it was proved that they really burned books, that's the fascism of the worst kind, that's something that has to be condemned, we can't stand behind it. And, it was proven, proven, confessed to Gilas himself, Milus, I don't know if there was anyone else at the press conference, they confessed in front of the press. I ask, well, what would you do with those words now, with this relationship to political responsibility? Is it there or isn't it? It's not just a matter of relationship with pensioners. I'm talking to MP Risticevic, he says he doesn't know about the case. You know he follows it closely, and he often talks about it here. He doesn't know in case someone said we have defined municipal funds for pensioners, I advertise them on all mouths, and then we don't realize them, I just charge them. It happened in that municipality, and I agree, there should be a legal epilogue, but we have to talk all the time about political responsibility, do you agree with that or not? I'm convinced, I'm telling you honestly, that you don't support such things. Great, then show me that's how it is. Show that you do not support, say we do not participate in this in any way. Among other things, even by supporting the government that does these things, it has been found to work. I don't think there's a stronger answer and there's no clearer answer to my questions whether you support it or not. After all, what he's doing and how he's doing on a political scene, that's what fate tells him tomorrow. You know how much this Bastach, Miljuš, and it doesn't matter, you're right, what are they called, those Gilas, how are they going to get through in Old Town? They'll go to the polls even though they're lying about boycotting, and they'll pass by barefoot and live and see.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65585	Right on line, first MP Milorad Mircic, then Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65586	What the SRS insists on is exactly what the president of the SRS told you and what you've repeated here. In this regard, just to point out, if any member of the SRS is involved in what is being done against the law, which is being manipulated by budget funds, we will be the first to do so, Mr. Orlic, who will continue to comply with the law until the end, and the sanctions regarding the parties are understood. We can't wait to catch any radicals in crime, to show how it's done. We'd like you SNS to do the same, not to be selective when it comes to responsibility for the abuse of budget funds. There's no selectivity here. That's the one who's wrong about the law, the one who abuses budget funds has to answer, no matter what his name is. You're trying to honor us here that we in some way directly or indirectly support the idea or ideology of DS or former DS. For decades we have been fighting, explaining to Serbia, we Serbian radicals how devastating the policy is, and in the coalition of the Old Town we will tell you a thousand times both to the public, the same Bastac was expelled from the DS because he made a coalition in the Old Town the way it is, but it does not appall him from responsibility, if he has misused budget funds, as no participant in power in the Old Town. You as representatives and as those who exercise power, be principled so that all those who abuse budgets simply process, so as you did in Požega, no Serbian radical was involved in criminal activities. Not to say I'm not exaggerating, of course it's your rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65587	Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's quite offensive when colleagues say pensioners should be given, pensioners should be shared. I find that offensive. Mr. Orlic, if you understand what I understand, it's offensive to old people. They long ago earned a dignified age by their work. This power is filling them up more and more. I'll give you some evidence. Pensions are made, they don't share. They earn from production and services, generational solidarity. The funds that they set out no longer exist because they were spent far before this government. In 2012, the pension fund at the same number of pensioners was 500 and a few billion. Of which, 273 billion were paid out of the loan of the budget, etc. Less than 50% of those pensions were earned. Why am I saying that this government is a friend of the pensioners? Because he's looking to make pensions. Now the pension fund is 600 and something billion, 100 billion more. But they're mostly paid out of the PIO fund, which means the number of employees who pay the PIO fund has increased. The grant of 157 billion. The pension cover from the PIO fund went from less than 50% to 75%. This is the best proof that this government is organising a country that earns pensions, that our pensioners are entitled to a dignified age and I believe that future GDP growth will continue to grow because this generation will earn greater and better pensions for pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65589	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65590	Mr. Risticevic, I agree with you. I have nothing to object to what you just stated, and if it's a note from your side that I may have expressed myself inappropriately at some point in my discussion, it wasn't my intention. It wasn't my intention, really. I have the highest possible respect for our pensioners. Mr. Mircic, at the end of your discussion, you have actually confirmed that there is no political protection in the SNS. And I'm glad you did. So the one who is found to be responsible, or that level of reasonable doubt, he must count on us to have political conconsequences. It's a good thing you said that. Another thing, about this Bastac and his fate in the DS. You know, it doesn't mean anything to me personally. Did he get kicked out of the DS, so now he's back, or he's not back, but he's at Gilas's party now, and it's all the same to me. I don't see any difference. If the question of their personal relationship with their old party is some reason for us to value them, then we'd just get into some kind of a mess they'd never get involved with. Because they all, as you know, threw each other out, freaked out their party and hated each other, and then made new ones. Here, watch what Dragan Gilas has been doing since DS these days. He broke up like an old bucket. I don't know if there's any stone left on the stone. I see they leave the board meetings, replace 70-80 committees in one day, can't decide whether they have youth, don't have youth, they've been torn apart by Dragan Gilas in parades. If for that reason, because of his relationship with the DS, I should appreciate him, I, I'm sorry, can't do that. For me and us at SNS, it is a question of relations with others and the answer to the question -- how and how much we will appreciate them, their relationship, not to their party registers and their private companies, but to the state and the people. The worst people in the world were towards this country and its suffering people. And they, because they were themselves, greedy and insolent, thought, we can't appreciate. And how much more will they destroy each other, how much more money will they steal from their failed parties, let it be their personal torment and their personal question, only in the part where it applies to the people's money and to the summoning of the disaster for this people, we will be involved and, rest assured, we will always intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65591	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65592	Here's what especially angry pensioners, especially retired judges, and they're working on. They're wondering, and we're also wondering, Serbian radicals, why judges are so-called judges. Specially these departments, or special ones, as the people call them, special judges for war crimes and organised crime, why are they a special category of insurance? There's no rational reason for that. First, it is completely pointless that such departments of these special courts are formed and that judges, and every regime in those departments chooses its judges and prosecutors and they have three times the salary of the other fellow judges, have cars for use, have security and what do they do? What are they doing for war crimes? They're suing Serbs for fictitious war crimes. How many in this Special Court, as we call it, how many criminals are convicted of some crime against Serbs? It can't be found. They don't do that. And they are still, in addition to all the benefits they have, they are envisaged in this law as a special category and they will under special conditions in relation to general terms go into retirement, so, with less years of work experience, and then they will probably already in the next changes of the law, as you have now worked for the police, then you will determine that the loss of ability to perform a judicial function implies even loss of working ability. Of course, all of this is worth it, since they have three and a half times the salary of fellow judges who work hard, honest, hard, judicial work. It didn't occur to anyone to put other judges in this category, if you think someone should, but you chose those judges who do their worst work and who do the worst things for the state of Serbia. And those for organized crime, they've just gotten beat up from how many organized crime they've exposed, or the prosecution and the police have found out, and they've ruled out, how many criminal convictions have been issued since when there are even these special departments, but they're to you, imagine, even in this Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, a special, privileged category, which will retire long before those people who work in black, who work in blood, not only in courts, but in many jobs, and who will retire to 20,000 dinars or 15, unlike those whose pensions will be in the category of the highest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65593	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65594	According to us, Serbian radicals, the pension system must be unique and the same for everyone. Now you're going to say-- that's the way it is. Of course not. What is prescribed by law, working with special conditions, okay, achieves certain benefits, i.e. bearing certain benefits, but very often this regime, and the previous much more has been ordered who has to be retired. First of all, he thinks of those who actively participated in the defense of our country. We cannot say - the standard has changed, we are doing better, Vukic solved all of Serbia's citizens' problems. Empirical evidence has shown that the most funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget have been paid after the introduction of the combined collection of taxes and contributions since 1 March 2014. As it has been proven since the abolition of the Social Accounting Service, about 600 billion dinars have gone awry in 11 years before the introduction of a united collection system. Right? Yes, it is. Of course it was, it's all proven. The introduction of the combined bill showed, and income was higher in the budget, as if the new 200,000 workers were employed, and in fact, only 7,000 workers were employed during that period. We cannot say that the payment in the pension fund has only increased due to an increase in the number of employees, and we know well that in the first year around 75% of new employees have grants or subsidies from the state. That's how they don't contribute at that point. But retirement is something that is long-termly necessary for a person to lead to one security and the state must at this time consider making the system of voluntary retirement insurance as effective as possible. And funds, pension funds, in some countries, are the strongest investment funds. Why couldn't it be in Serbia, Mr. Minister? I don't know how interested you are today to follow the MPs of the SRS, but you should know, and I'm sure you do -- there's a lot of debt from people who pay pension insurance and they deal with agriculture. There are in Ljubljana, it's a small municipality, there are several citizens of Love who have over two, some even three million debts based on a pension internship. It's something that hangs, at this point irreparable, but, think about it, look for a way to solve these problems, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65595	The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65596	Thank you, Chairman. I absolutely agree with the government's opinion on this amendment and I believe that the adoption of amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is necessary, given the number of pensioners whose problem will be solved. We know that in our country 24% of the population are pensioners and it is clear how important it is to adopt this bill. The adoption of the bill will directly improve their economic and social position and not only the user of pensions, but also their families. What is the goal of every pension system is absolutely clear. The main objectives are to provide adequate pension, of course, as many users as would include one financial sustainability. I would also remind myself that the average pension in 2018 was 51% of the average tax-free and non-income income, as well as that it increased by 3.8% compared to 2017, which is certainly the result of an increase in pension rates by 5% in December 2017 and a drop in pension rates paid for in October 2018. I would remind Serbia, by the number of direct investments, has become a leader in the region and that these investments have increased by 12 times compared to the population and that three years in a row we have presented a surplus in the budget, which has allowed us to do the rebalancing and create conditions to raise salaries and increase pensions. With the appropriate application of these results, we have resulted in pensions being increased, salaries increased, which will certainly contribute to one development budget in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65597	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS promised before the 2014 elections a better standard, a better life for citizens, growth of the economy and everything else, and then tried to achieve this through the reduction of pensions to the poorest citizens of Serbia, pensioners and that after the justice that the pensioners agreed to. In a few years' time, the amount of pension that was reduced, which the pensioners received, each pensioner may seek a judicial way to make it up to him, because he has the right to do so. Pensions are acquired rights, pensions are property and they can't be taken. The pensioner who exhausts all funds in Serbia can reach the European Court of Human Rights, after which he will be a mandatory state, although only one pensioner will ask for it, to pay all those pensioners and compensations with interest. So this is due to these economic decisions by the Serbian government. Instead of saving itself to fund a variety of nonsense, NGOs, so-called. Human resources, which we know what they are doing and what they do in Serbia, the Serbian government, led by the SNS, have been defined as saving on pensioners. It can't go together a better standard, a better economy, and then aid than 5,000 dinars. By paying aid from 5,000 dinars, it cannot be compensated for something that has been taken every month from a large number of Serbian citizens. Where's the Quick Answers Office you promised, and you never did? Where's your red tape in Serbia? Where's your agency removal? What exactly are you changing from what you're criticizing most, which is the power of the DS? Nothing. Everything else is exactly the same, the changes are just, unfortunately, personal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65599	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65600	Thank you. I understand the opposition, first I respect that they sit here unlike those who don't come, which my colleague said, now it's going to be 400 days. Shame on them, pay gets paid, they get journals and they don't come. But people need to understand that in 2012, maybe one to two pensions, one to two salaries, and then bankruptcy. Everybody knows that. It's known how the budget situation was. GDP was down 3.5%. Guys, today is plus 3.5%, in the last six months plus 4%. We work, we create. How do we create? Come on, let's go from the beginning. Let's remember in 2008, how many people were fired? Four hundred thousand men. Well, it's not just $400,000, where are their families? So, a million people without bread. Who's gonna pay that PIO fund? Where'd the money come from? There's no money in the budget, no PIO maltene fund before decomposition, no pension money, no one to pay in the PIO fund, so how? We don't have a magic wand. We did, we promised, and we did a lot of things. So, what would they do? These people are patriots. The pensioner currently has a million and 700 grand. Let's keep them alive and healthy and keep them even more, that's our parents, they created this country, but the point is that we've done a lot. First we increase them, then pay them. What happened in 2012, you all know what the budget was like? We had to do the measurements in 2014. It's simple, it's necessary. I'm sorry the pensioners took the biggest burden, but that's why we're returning it to them first. When I hear that someone's giving social aid, so it's not social aid, it's a gift and there's always going to be gifts and there's going to be a raise in pensions. First there are pensions, then there are salaries, but the problem is that in the country there was one-on-one in 2014. One employee can't support a pensioner. It's always been three to one. Now it's one and a half to one, it's going to be two, so it's going to be three. The other day, it was opened at the Kragujevac factory, employed 200 people. Now we're going to open Park in Borca, we're going to hire over 10, 15 thousand people. That's how you charge the budget, that's how you charge the Pension Fund. And from the budget this year, just for the record, 100 billion less dinars for pensions. So we hired 350,000 people. They're paying into the Pension Fund. That's how it works, it's not ideal. I'm sorry we did it, but if someone was going to Strasbourg, this is... The biggest patriots are retired. What's he gonna do in Strasbourg when he knows, now he's getting a pension, let's make it a hundred thousand people, ten thousand, so it's not Wolf's fault they have ten thousand. Someone didn't pay those pensions, they stole someone. We're working on getting those pensions back, getting to the level where people can really live solidly. It's not ideal, but it's much, much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65601	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65602	I don't understand why you didn't say such things in the campaign, that you didn't say that pensioners would live better, we'd cut pensions. Why didn't you tell me we don't have the pension money, as soon as we get to power after these elections, we'll cut pensions right off. You should have said that in the campaign when you're already so confident of their support and justification for this procedure. How many pensions did they raise this year? What's the difference between only this aid was of 5,000 dinars and it helped all pensioners even those who have 10,000 pensions and those who have 100,000 dinar pensions, as if they were all the same category. You've been cutting salaries and pensions on the same basis, and now, at the same percentage, and now the salaries are rising by 10% to 15%, and pensions are only 5%. What's in it for someone to claim their right in Strasbourg, so he has his right. The Republic of Serbia has signed and ratified the European Convention on Human Rights. It's his right. His right to him is unfounded when the state takes the money to complain. What's the problem? It can't be your economic model. You say there's more money. Well, why do you give that money more to Bechtel 300m euros, you give to support in a state villa, in the residence of the President of the Republic today the former president of the Republic lives on the cost of all Serbian citizens, more than 40 million dinars each year. Is the Republic of Serbia so rich as to allow such a luxury? Where's your red tape? You promised the office quick answers. You talked about it every day in the campaign? Where did that come from? Where's your agency removal? Where's your subsidy reduction? Where is the 100 billion-euro investment that Tomislav Nikolic was talking about at a rally in Kosovo Mitrovica in 2012? You gave up all your pre-election promises and you just kept doing what they did yellow before you did. You also have a ruling coalition of differences in this baseless one, some say the 2008 pension increase, and your coalition partners just insisted on it and spoke about it the other day, even as it was justified and needed for pensioners. What are we talking about now?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65603	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Replica, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65604	Thank you. So 1,300,000 people, or pensioners, had no pension cuts, and you know it well. So 60% had no pension cuts, one. Floor two, Greek script. You remember that the Greeks, they all ended up like that in Strasbourg as long as the pensions were alive, because they were in front of bankruptcy, they owe as much as billions. So, what did they get? Nobody got slow. Secondly, we had elections in 2017, in 2014 we had a reduction in pensions, salaries and everything, heavy reforms. What did people say in 2017? (Faith Radeta: Bravo.) They didn't say bravo, but for the sake of this state, for the sake of survival of us and our children and pensions and wages, we vote for a man who does what? He's telling the truth. It'll be hard for you to get better. There's no magic wand, so now the pensions of 1,000 euros, where good luck. We'd all be so happy. But one step at a time, until the pensioners live as well as the whole normal world. It wasn't Vucic who set the pension of 10,000, it was before him generations and generations. How much? Twenty, thirty years ago. I'm saying again, somebody didn't pay in the Pension Fund, now they're asking for a pension. He'll get it after 65 years. Someone's been kidnapped, my dear colleague, Mrs. Vukojičić, says a yellow company. Remember, they beheaded the PIO Fund, stole everything they could steal, threw out everything they could, fired 2,000 judges, and famous lawyers, lawyers, everything. Who was that? You say, "Why don't you arrest them?" How do we arrest them when they make the laws to steal? We're making laws now so it doesn't happen, and it's never gonna happen again. That's why pensioners trust Mr. Vukic, and that's why he'll always vote for safety, not for a lie, not a promise, but for what's next, which is an increase in pensions, a normal life. And for televisions, of course they'll buy a TV or anything. Once again, don't, social aid, it's not social aid, it's a gift to our lovely pensioners, patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65605	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65606	There is a secret vote in the Republic of Serbia and no one can know who he voted for. So we can't just trust you. How do you know all the pensioners voted right for you? What difference does it make how many pensioners were affected by the pension benefits, well not all pensioners, whether they're 400,000 or one pensioner, are the exact same principle if the law breaks. The law breaks this way. You're saying-- we were telling the truth, we never lied, we said it would be hard. In Hala "Pinki", in February 2014, Aleksandar Vucic says – I do not let him touch the pensioners, I do not let him touch our poorest citizens, it is better to take it from our coat of arms than from the pensioners, etc. It hasn't been a few months, pensions have been cut. You say – Wolf decides. The IMF, unfortunately, does not decide what the World Bank decides, what they say, is that what is in your political programme absolutely has nothing to do with it unless it is in line with the World Bank's recommendations. That's why you're no different from the DS regime. You took unconstitutional pensioners their acquired rights, you took money from pensioners, and eventually you said that the pensioners agreed to it, even though no one ever asked them. You could have saved a lot of money, and you didn't, but you chose to take it from the pensioners, and now you haven't brought pensions to that level yet and returned that money that was taken from them. Everyone has a right to it, whether it was achieved in one way or another, whether through the Constitutional Court, whether through an international court. You can't play with someone's rights because you don't have a legal basis for it. That the situation in Serbia is that pensioners never live better, so how do you pay them back? Where do people who live well and live like all normal worlds get paid for help? It's a contradiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65607	Thank you. Replica, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65608	I understand, but you're saying something that isn't true. I said well, 1,300,000 pensioners were not covered by pension cuts. You just told everyone they're reduced pensions, so you're not telling the truth. That's not true. 60% of pensions weren't cut. Right? That's right. Let's move on, don't make this congregation laws, just adopt them. People's MPs are getting out of place. Wait, you pissed me off. Wait, wait, wait. The government and the Ministry... Do we vote for the laws? Are we making suggestions? I mean, as a young man, you should know one thing, 1,700 people voted, whatever the vote was, I'm sure half the pensioners voted for us. Why? Because people are coming to us, because they said -- I want to keep living in this country, I want my kids to live here, I better not get a pension twice as long as I need two years, but then get a regular pension, as we're getting now. Guys, we've got money today, we've got surpluses in the budget, so we're giving an increase in wages and pensions, and that's why we're giving gifts. Why? Because we hired 350,000 people, because every day we have a new investment, because today we have a stable state, because today investors come in and we open jobs. The other day in Kragujevac 200 people, every day something opens up. I don't know what you don't understand. It's not good that someone has 10,000, but we'll make sure they have a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65609	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65610	Mr Arsic, correct me if I am wrong, the institution of the sovereign government is the National Assembly under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly has, among other things, legislative jurisdiction, right? The most legislative body, it makes laws and decides everything in Serbia as the most important organ in Serbia. We have just heard that the congregation does not, in fact, make laws. (Ljiljana Malusic: You know I didn't mean it like that, but to adopt laws. ) But, yes, such perception was created by the SNS, as if it were asked for everything by Aleksandar Vukic, and then the work of the MPs in the Assembly to justify what Vukic had already decided, also Mr. Finance Minister was repeatedly found at press conferences of the President of the Republic, where, in fact, President Vukic decided at that moment - should be paved this time, that time, that school, that toilet and what I know. As far as we're concerned, we've turned everything around in our country. Was this a retirement aid or a retirement gift? We've been listening for weeks to help pensioners, and now we hear it's a gift. Is that a gift or help? Whether only one pensioner is reduced or reduced, it's absolutely the same if the law is broken it can't be right if there's only a little bit of breaking the law because there's not a whole number of pensioners involved. The law has been broken, kidnapping from acquired rights is a violation of the law and it simply has nothing to do with the number of pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65611	My fellow Seselj, for the dignity of the National Assembly, I am obliged to remind you that the National Assembly has passed the law and cannot break the law. (Alexander Seselj: May I continue? ( b) For the sake of the dignity of the National Assembly, the National Assembly cannot break the law. There's no way. I'll give you your time, don't worry. (Alexander Seselj: If you could give me 30 seconds back, Mr. Arsic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65612	So, we've heard now. I commented on Mrs Malusic's discussion, she said the National Assembly does not pass laws. What's this about? Why didn't you warn Mrs. Malusic about that? It is the same injured dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65613	Comrade Seselj, you've said five times that the law was broken under the law. That's what you said. My colleague Malusic had a lapus. You said the law was broken. The National Assembly passed the law and broke the law, so it turns out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65614	Mr. Arsic, do you agree that pensions are acquired rights? Is that not the same as the salaries paid to employees in the labour sector? Do you agree that it's not the same to cut pensions and wages? So there's one fundamental difference. It just can't be explained by our system to cut pensions. Retiring pensions is unconstitutional. There are a lot of unconstitutional laws, Mr. Arsic, this isn't the only one. This National Assembly has already introduced such a trend one, i.e. The ruling majority in it, to tolerate the unconstitutional laws that the ruling majority adopt. Don't let us hide in front of that and pretend like nothing's going on. One of these is reducing pensions that are unconstitutional. All I'm saying is, it doesn't matter if all pensioners have a pension cut or if it's only been reduced once. So it can't be justified to cut pensions by not reducing pensions to some number of pensioners. When you break the law, it's not an absolutely important number of people who suffer under that violation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65615	Right on line, MP Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65616	Very short. I made a lapus lingvee. I guess you know I've been here five years and I know why we exist here and what our basic function is. We have a control and legislative function, and you can see that. I know what I'm talking about. Yeah, you know that, it's okay. The Constitutional Court has pleaded not to break the law, one. Two, I know how the opposition works. We were the opposition, too. Of course we're going to attack the position, it's so normal. I like you to sit here because we have someone to talk to, to exchange opinions with. You're very constructive, but once we put an end to the pensioners. A million and three hundred thousand people are not reduced pensions, period. So, out of a million and seven hundred, how many people are reduced pensions? Four hundred thousand people. Now we give it back to them and we raise pensions to people who aren't cut. I don't know what's not clear about that. There'll be more pensions and more pensions and an ever-increasing standard, and a higher and better standard. With 27% unemployment, we have a historical minimum of 9.5%. That's how you charge the budget, and that's how we're gonna get the pensioners the money. There will be this PIO fund while SNS and Mr. Alexander Vukic are headed as president. Thank you, period. I don't want to talk about pensioners anymore. Besides, there will be elections very soon, so we'll see how we, the SNS with coalition partners, and let's see how you go and see which ones don't go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65617	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65618	If a party wins most of the votes in the elections, it does not mean that the party can do whatever it wants, even if it will arbitraryly interpret the laws and then behave without some basic respect for the law. That just doesn't mean it. This only means that the party can exercise power, but the government must comply with the laws in force in Serbia. Four hundred thousand people suffer and suffer from pension cuts. It cannot be an excuse for someone being taken from acquired rights that they do not represent the majority in Serbia. Just that they cut a pensioner's pension once again, that's the problem because that's how the law was broken. There's got to be talk about it. It is one of the most important topics in Serbia. It is also in contradiction with the pre-election promises of the 2014 SNS. The Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vucic pledged not to touch pensions, to get off our backs, probably thinking about politicians or not knowing what, and then after that, the first decision was to cut pensions. When did the Constitutional Court plead on that matter or any other matter? When did the Constitutional Court come forward and say it was in accordance with the Constitution? Please let us know, maybe we don't know. The Constitutional Court did not report on this and this pension reduction is unconstitutional. There can be no justification for the result in the elections and the number of votes for any decisions that are illegal and cannot be better for a pensioner because aid is now being paid. You're paying for pensioners' help, and you're talking about their standard. Why are you helping them if it's all right? Where's the money to get back to them, the one that was taken from them in the previous period? What's gonna happen to that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65619	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65620	In the light of the amendments and additions to this law, it is said that, with the approval of, or consultation with, the World Bank, this amendment and the addition of the law, especially when it comes to this, in the nature of things, is a very, very vulnerable category of the population, and these are pensioners. You're here talking about independence, about independence, about something that should in any case beautify whoever is in power, and by reason of this proposal you admit that you still need to hear the opinion, advice and instructions of the World Bank and the IMF. Where's the independence? In what? In urban traffic? Is there independence? About buying city traffic stamps, is there independence? The World Bank advises and determines whether you pensioners, in accordance with what you've taken away, will return most of it. Where's that? There's only one in the colonies. Where the colonial government is, where the World Bank, IMF and European Development Bank masters are, this is how it is done. You here explain to us how pensioners not only should be grateful, but that they should vote for you for the rest of their lives. When do you think so and with so much resources, in the end, do you have, so why didn't you go after the model to raise your pensions as much as you raised your salaries in the public sector? Just remember that in the same percentage and same amount, you've reduced both wages and pensions. How come they were the same and the same, so you treated them, pensioners and public sector employees, when you cut their salaries and pensions, and now, when they increase, there's a difference? Now those who receive salaries in the public sector are privileged. They are more damaged, and they have been wronged more than the pensioners. What kind of logic is that? Do you really underestimate that part of the population? These are people with very great life and professional experiences. You can't explain it to them like that. Find an explanation that will at least ease that poverty, that misery, that uncertainty in that endangered category of population.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65621	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65622	Let me help you out a little bit and give you an answer why there aren't any of these on our right. Well, they're not there because a lot of kings have robbed and kidnapped, because Serbian citizens have turned black, and when it comes to their policy and yours, there's no big difference. Both of you have an imaginary way towards the EU and obedience and a great obedience to international financial organisations. It's something that's almost identical, but when it comes to pensioners, you're in Article 10. The bill said that the rights of spouses and extramaritals are equalized. Well, that's what the Family Law said, and I don't think it should be particularly emphasized. There's no need. When we tell you who told you, someone once said that in 2012, or in 2014, it was a completely empty register, and you are now continuing and extending it. If you hadn't brought such measures, if you hadn't taken it, maybe you'd have said it right, kidnapped her, I don't have a problem using that word, from the pensioners, what would have been the situation and what would have happened here? Let me tell you what that looks like. It's a simple thing. It's like if some savings had a thousand euros in the bank and now the bank takes it away from him, and then it tells him -- if you still have a chance to save in three years, we'll give you interest, instead of the previous 2%, now 3%, and it won't apply just to you, but it'll apply to others. Well, you said there was a solid basis for raising pensions, for increasing earnings based on increased national income, and that's probably the result of increasing that, and that one you took something, something and you had no right, and now you're just asking to return. This – we are taking care of pensioners, I am a little bit of a looker, I said a great contribution to budgeting had been the introduction of a combined collection of taxes and contributions, because business banks couldn't or could not control them in the previous 11 years, before 2014, and we had the consequences of having and instead of those creators and promoters of such tax collection and protection contributions, they were also abused professionally by some, so I'm not even sure that they were well-intentioned in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65623	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65624	Thank you. I absolutely agree with the government's opinion, because, of course, Article 10 doesn't need to be deleted. Why? Because the provisions of Article 10 are fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, the right to a family pension is equaled by the non-marriage and marriage partners, just as the Constitution says. Of course, given the 2011 census, over 50 years of age living in an out-of-marriage community has about 2% and certainly this will not cause anything much greater to pay off family pensions, but certainly this creates first legal certainty in out-of-marriage spouses, and then creates material security. Equality of a marriage mate, except in the exercise of the right to a family pension, except that it is in agreement with the Constitution, as the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia, is in agreement with all other documents, i.e. laws in the practice of the Republic of Serbia, but also with all other international documents that form part of the legal legislation of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to a prohibition of discrimination on any basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65625	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65626	Well, first of all, I have to say, if it's necessary for the public, that I, my colleague Vukojičić, greatly appreciate her activity as she has, so on a daily basis in this House. We didn't ask to shave Article 10. This is similar to a colleague of Oliver's who once said there was a member of the 10th, but this is an intervention. The family law said that marriage and extramarital partners are completely even. In this law, but then it would be an unconstitutional law, it could only be said that out-of-marriage partners have no right. It could have been, someone might have suggested it, but then he would have been unconstitutional. So there's no need to repeat what's already been defined by Family Law. It said they were even and what you tried to explain, to say, and other regulations evened it out. I'm in agreement here, and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65627	Right to replica, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65628	One of the basic rules is that the laws of each other should be in full agreement. Of course this law should be in agreement with the Family Law. So far, it has not been envisaged to exercise the right of an extramarital partner to a family pension. It is these amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, that the extramarital and marriage partner has the exact same rights in achieving a family pension and, of course, that the Family Law, which has a lower legal fact than the Constitution, is absolutely in agreement and we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65629	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65630	We'd like to point out the use of some of this government's resources, which can't be called rational. It is, above all, as we had the opportunity to see, already known partner in the construction of the Moravia Corridor, the US firm Bechtel, which has agreed to a direct contract for a price of about 300m euros from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government of Serbia, to build the Moravski Corridor. So that's 300m euros, which could have been saved. I will remind you, Aleksandar Vucic spoke in the National Assembly that a share of the Ljig-Preljina highway, which was built during the DS government, was overpaid 40m euros. Forty million euros have been overpaid, and now 300m euros more should be spent on the highway, for Bechtel. There, the money that could have been directed, for example, at the pensioners. Forty million dinars are financed that Tomislav Nikolic lives in the presidency of the Republic every year. It costs 40 million dinars to every Serbian citizen. Isn't that scandalous? The government of the Republic of Serbia is funding through the Human and Minority Rights Office with 300 million dinars of human-right NGOs, which we later see being imposed on us by genocide in Srebrenica, Kosovo's independence, fabricated responsibility for some Serbian alleged crimes, responsibility for everything that has happened in the Balkans, who knows since, this has been financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of paying for it, that money is much smarter to be used and to raise the standard of living and our poorest, but also to all other citizens of Serbia. So, don't just talk about how it was necessary to cut pensions, that's not true. The money could be found, but the IMF and the World Bank said pensions should be reduced and the government of the Republic of Serbia reduced pensions accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65631	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65632	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, the SRS requested that this member be deleted, on the grounds that the amendment is in accordance with the amendments to Article 6. It's a bill of law. This ministry is a supporter of changes and additions, not new laws. This amendment and supplementation is already 17th, and these changes have 40 members, as well as a whole new law, let's say about agency employment. I would agree here with the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts, let's say one or two months were proposed, so long those deadlines would be with other ministries, i.e. their proposals, not to be passed as so far, which has been in practice from eight to nine months and more. Several interventions are scheduled with this proposal. For example, the question of harmonising pensions, the right of the extramarital community to a family pension, voluntary pension funds, a deadline for a foreign employer, persons from a farm in the capacity of entrepreneurs, etc. The issue present in the public about early retirement is open to me, unfortunately, this time although health workers' trade unions advocate it. The issue of all issues in the PIO system is the long-term economic responsibility of the pension fund's sustainability. This is all a story, piece by piece. We see that some new mosaic is coming together, and we're going to see what effect it's going to have in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65633	Thank you. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65634	First, we had the opportunity to hear more times about the stability of our public finances, how we are now able to have sustainable growth and chase some German standards, how we have bigger growth than the Germans, "Switzerland formulas" etc., and we don't see, in fact, how much worse lives than we live in some other countries that we compare with. So we just need to know one thing. Just because we say that Serbia will live better when Serbia becomes an EU member does not mean that it will live in Serbia as in Germany, as in Sweden, as in Finland, as in some other EU member states. What is envisaged for us is the model of Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia. That's what we can hope for. How do you think you live in that country today? How high is their external debt, how high is unemployment, and how large is their demographic outflow? This is what is foreseen for these countries to represent the EU lobby, so-called. "West Balkans" or "regional" or whatever it is called. It is that delusion that we need to get rid of as quickly as possible and that someone will help us because we are successful on that European path, it is a lie. No one will help us, just what they want from us is that we give up our will in our territory, we break our constitution, we give up all the time of Kosovo and Metohija, and the fairy tale of a better life is only one fiction, one lie that will never happen in Serbia in this way, through these European integration processes. Accordingly, we should act and, in time, before it's too late, look for some foreign policy alternatives, expand our economy, that is. to promote our economy and to increase it, not to fool ourselves that the EU will help us, that because we have fulfilled or opened a chapter, we will automatically live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65635	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65636	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the payment of contributions to Serbia can be a problem. Here we are mostly talking about the current state of affairs, how to redistribute GDP and how old people deserve to separate part of the GDP for old age. That percentage is about ten comas something percent. So it's close or about five billion euros. Now no one here is saying that in Serbia, the average age of the population is almost 44 years, that seven million people live in Serbia, that the number of under 15 is now below 14%, the number of older than 65 years 17%, that in 10 years, that trend will be approximately 12%, the younger than 15 years will be 11%, and the older than 65 years will be about 22%, which means that the new pensioners will have only one employee. The only way out is the population policy that started to run this government, that in some future, not so close, the number of young people under 15 has increased compared to the number over 65. It will be extremely difficult, but fortunately, the life span continues, but population measures to restore and rebuild the population and no longer lose, because 65,000 are born in Serbia and 101,000 die. There are 260,000 unmarried in the village. There is no need to expect a more positive score, but we must take care of GDP. If we single out, here, the minister is there, 10% of GDP for pensions, if this is a standard, only one offensive economic policy and GDP growth, based on productivity, new technologies, etc., with a small number of employees to support pensioners in Serbia, who are expected to grow sharply in the next 10.20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65637	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that counterpart Marijan Risticevic submitted should be carefully considered, most of all for the reason that many untrues were told before his discussion, concerning pension rights. You know, this is where citizens, I guess in that desire and the struggle for votes, are given promises that can't really be fulfilled. So, that promise that pension should be 50% of the average income in the Republic of Serbia is just as harmful, if not more harmful, than the pension increases in 2008 and 2009, when we increased pensions based on an increase in public debt and ruined all the results of an increase in pensions, even more effectively, the pensions were less. The other thing is often mentioning the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. There was even a discussion that the National Assembly was breaking the law. Pensions are reduced by law. The constitution of the law values the Constitutional Court. So, I ask my colleagues that only on the basis of the Constitutional Court decisions do they assess whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. If you look at article 70. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed only the right to retire. It's a matter of law. Milorad Mircic: That's right. Where are you, genius? () Since various benefits have been earned, and some have even been called upon by the European Court of Human Rights and thus invite citizens to sue the Republic of Serbia, their country, to have the right, but do they not tell them to expose them to an incredible cost risk with the prospect of obtaining a dispute that is none? They really think they're working for the benefit of the citizens. Here, I say they tricked everyone they invited to stand trial with the International Court in Strasbourg. Why? Because the position of the International Court of Justice is the following: the limitation of the rights to property which constitute the content of the other of those basic rules is justified, legitimate, if legitimate, by the law of the State of the signatories, because that is how the rule of law is ensured. Has the Assembly passed the law? Yes, it is. Second point - if taught to achieve a legitimate goal, i.e. in the public or general interest. Is it public, general interest that the Republic of Serbia has a stable financial system? Is it fixed? Is that what the Constitution says? So that condition is fulfilled, too. If they are proportionate, which means that the right of an individual to enjoy assets peacefully must be measured with general interest, i.e. with objectives to be achieved for the sake of the common good, etc. Well, when you call the citizens, read them this. One more thing. All of this I have read, the following is said - pensions fall within the concept of the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, provided that the right to pension is acquired on the basis of the right of the state of the signatories. However, the right to a pension of a certain height is not guaranteed by Article 1 of the Protocol, and we have signed the protocol, and that is explicitly specified by the verdicts. Well, should I read you the judgment numbers? So when you make promises, say nice - to 1,700,000 pensioners, a thousand dinars, calculate to increase pensions, how much money from the budget, just for a thousand dinars. And you promise that 10 and 15 thousand dinars will be increased, so count on 1,300,000 pensioners, as much as that, and translate whether or not the state can pay for it. Well, to end everything, the whole state apparatus, and the police and the military and education and health care, the state can't pay for it. And whoever promises it, I say he's lying now. He's lying, he can't, or he thinks badly of his country. And those who think ill, we have seen their results by 2012, and citizens have finally learned that those who make false and unfulfilled promises never again give majority confidence in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65639	Thank you. Comrade Seselj, you want a replica of the presentation of fellow Arsic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65640	With all due respect, Mr Arsic, no one else can predict the outcome of any court dispute or any court dispute before the European Court of Human Rights. When we talked about raising pensions, we talked about that minimum pension so much should amount, therefore, not to all pensioners, not to those who have 80, 90 and more thousands of dinar pensions. Now you just said-- pension is property, pension is not profit, and the main thing is you didn't say it before you came to power, but you promised not to do it. Just what I'm saying right now - pensions are acquired rights in them are not touched. That's what Aleksandar Vukic said in February 2014 in Hala Pinka and you were probably, as a high-ranking official of your party, at that rally. Did you hear Wolf say that? Now you're saying something that's quite the opposite of that. You can find money to increase the pensioner's standard, not with one hand, etc., gifts, you can call it whatever you want. You want to invest in a national stadium of 250m euros. You give Bechtel 300m euros more money to build a highway, the US Embassy in Belgrade pays a racket. Why is that money being spent so much? That's irrational. Why, when you're so brave, when you're so responsible, you didn't tell the pensioners before the election -- as soon as we win the election, as soon as we form the government, we'll cut your pensions, not everyone, but 400,000 for sure, but you said he didn't touch it, he can't, and then you did everything the other way? Please, I guess it wasn't that long ago, Mr. Arsic. So money can be found. That's not a lie. I didn't accuse you of lying, and you should choose a priority. Is it a priority that we listen unspeakably to what comes to us by the IMF or is it a priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia to take care of the better life of Serbian citizens? I think this is different, and then you assess, however, the responsibility will later be on you, the representatives of your party and the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65641	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that an esteemed colleague is not telling the truth. Alexander Vukic said the pensioners' rights would be the last to measure. That's what he said. As others have understood or transmitted it, it's not my problem. As anyone understands, it's not my problem either. Furthermore, why are there no untrues about Bechtel and the highway? The conditions were met by all the companies that applied for the procedure, which bought out the documentation. No one, no Americans, no government of the Republic of Serbia, no competent ministry, has been banned from making an offer. The only offer was ‘Bechtel’. We're probably all driven by our own economic interest. No one could stop any Chinese company from competing. Why not? It's their decision, completely legitimate. Let's move on. I'm just talking about pension property, no amount guaranteed. The amount is determined by law, not by the Constitution. One more thing, the Republic of Serbia is a signator of all international protocols on the rights of citizens, and based on these protocols it is explicitly determined that the amount of pension is not guaranteed. Why are you inviting citizens to sue their country and expose them to a terrible cost of losing their lives? There's something else I need to tell you. For a million and 300,000 pensioners with an average salary, as you say it is a minimum pension, to be 250 euros, as you say, calculate how much from the Republic of Serbia's budget and whether the Republic of Serbia can pay for it. It's easy to make promises, but pensions are paid off of what the state makes. If we're going to act irresponsible, like in 2008, you act like one, we won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65643	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65644	Alexander Vukic, in Hala Pinka, says: “I won’t let pensions touch it. Better off our backs to get off than to touch the acquired pensioners' rights. “ Is that collapsing with what you just said, Mr. Arsic? I think so. You were saying everything exactly the opposite before you came to power, you acted differently when you formed a government. We don't invite anyone to sue their country. It's property. It's not the same as making money. We don't invite anyone, and we don't expose anyone to expenses, and we don't want anyone to get along on purpose. We opened it up as a possibility. The Republic of Serbia has lost many disputes before the court and would not be the first. We want that money back and you're talking now, that story is completely unserious, if we paid it off all of a sudden, I don't know what would happen, we would go bankrupt, etc. Successively, try, try, you don't have to suddenly, pay it in pieces, but that money has to come back. You can't break something that's a basic principle, which is the integrity of property. The integrity of the assets is not the same as the reduction of public sector wages. That's what pensions are all about. The money could have been found. Now you're talking about these companies, interests and what you just said. Then why are you doing business with a direct contract? If there's no corruption, no crime, what's the direct deal? The whole world is operating in tenders, only here in Serbia, in these developing countries, semi-colonial status is done by direct contracts, and then we have that damage, it's normal. Aleksandar Vukic talked about it, and related to the Ljig-Preljina highway, said 40m euros were stolen there. Now it's about to steal 300m euros, eight times more, almost eight times. What are we talking about? You could have found the money, you could have made these pointless projects, national stadiums, funding NGOs, financing Tomislav Nikolic... There's a lot of that stuff in Serbia, it can't fit in two minutes. You could have found the money, but no, this is where it was chosen to get rid of the pensioners, and then it's justified how they expected what we announced and the pensioners agreed, they supported us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65645	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not yet seen the greater respecter of the character and the work of Alexander Vukic than Alexander Seselj. I didn't see it. So, quotes, studies, acknowledges the results that Alexander Vukic has. Only to learn that the right to retire and the amount of retirement is not the same. That when he learns, then he'll fully understand Alexander Wolfich. Furthermore, the European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg are a source of rights for future rulings in the same legal matter. Why are you inviting citizens to sue the state when the outcome of the trial is known and will lose? If you call them, make a public promise here now that you will bear the costs and then invite the citizens to sue their country. It's easy now. Furthermore, is life supposed to stop in Serbia? I ask that question – should life stop in Serbia to satisfy a group of citizens in the Republic of Serbia? I don't think so. I don't know why you keep asking that. All the investments that come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia represent a cost and that something is being taken away from these pensioners. What's being kidnapped? Tell me what? We now add 170 billion from the budget, 157 will be next year. From the budget, from the tax, that pensions are as they are. I'd understand your concern that the state is taking from the pension fund, and then you'd say we're stealing from them. No, we give it to them. You're still saying we're taking away the property of the pension fund. The way we kidnap them when we fill their fund, they get funds from their budgets. They're not liquid. Learn some things once. You can't give a flat rate and on that basis, because of the political points, you bring out things that can't be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65647	I thank my colleague Arsic. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not yet seen a greater respecter of the character and the work of Tomislav Nikolic than Veroljub Arsic. He's his true political heir. Tomislav Nikolic is his ideological role model, and today in the National Assembly is a political vision and ideology of Tomislav Nikolic. Don't, please, make Mr. Arsic feel threatened, I commended you. We didn't invite anyone, but we referred to it as a real danger, a real possibility. That could happen. The Government of the Republic of Serbia should be prepared for that. I guess it's better to work on the standard of living of all citizens, including pensioners, and not to brag about the senseless, i.e. It may make sense, but for now we don't see it, there's no study of economic justification at all, for example, for that national stadium. Twenty-five million euros for the national stadium. Who's coming to that stadium? What's that gonna develop? Living and business spaces are actually a model of development. Well, it won't be. Subsidies for foreign investors up to 15,000 euros even, thus Serbia will develop and will not. That's what Serbia pays salaries in companies it doesn't own, and then the owners of the company and Serbia make extra profits. Now it will be interesting to see when Megatrend is sold, when taxes are paid in Serbia, how it will affect our standard of living. That would be an interesting topic to discuss. The main thing is that you have chosen the worst possible solution for fiscal consolidation, that you have reduced the amount of pensions, that you have taken from pensioners, and that you have been able to save on many things that you are very generously funding today from human rights organisations, through the construction of some projects that are not needed today in Serbia, but also here we have some of these investments that come, for example, the construction of highways in road infrastructure, which have been overpaid, and where has this been subscribed? It went into corruption...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65649	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have never mentioned Tomislav Nikolic, and opposition colleagues cannot possibly forgive Tomislav Nikolic. They cannot forgive Tomislav Nikolic for beating Boris Tadic and taking the DS out of power. They can't forgive him for that. Plus, they thought they were gonna do it, they weren't capable, maybe they didn't want to. I don't want to get into it right now, but the fact that they'll never forgive him. However, I learned some things from Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Seselj, which is always the truth here. Unlike what's happening now, I can't know my opposition colleagues. So, according to them, they know how much the highway costs, they're the best builders in Serbia. They know whether something is constitutional or not, they're judges of the Constitutional Court. They know if anything will be ruled by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the judges are the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. They're all them. There's only one problem, you gave up what I learned while I was in your party, it's to tell the truth. That's why no one trusts you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65651	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65652	Taking into account that today's progressive Serbia is all the other way around, so the lie is actually true, so the reduction is actually an increase. Tomorrow will be the day of night or vice versa, black white etc., so we can hear things like this. The Serbian Radical Party is the only political party in Serbia to mark within a month of 30 years of existence, which has never changed its political ideology to come to power for this reason, to have any benefits, any privileges, and ask yourself how did you find yourself in another party, Mr Arsic, how did this happen? Was it for the truth or something? You are the ones who say the truth, the one who does not speak. I read to you more than once what the current president of Serbia said about pensions, and what was after that when he had the chance to do so, and he did it completely the other way around. So you promised to protect the pensioners, and then you cut their pensions. You say you didn't mean it. You're being misread. You convinced them before the elections that you wouldn't touch their pensions, and then you cut them down, and you could save money. We're not much smarter than you, so now we've seen how the Moravia Corridor is going to be built. That's what Zorana Mihajlovic was talking about here. The US ambassador spoke in the middle of Serbia's government on this occasion even welcomed and said Kosovo is an independent state for them. It all happened in the Serbian government to sign a protocol with Bechtel for the construction of the Moravia Corridor, which is at least 300m euros more expensive than any other offer or offer that would come from China. Anyone who tells the truth, who lies, can judge someone else, but you have to accept that you don't justify yourself in that way. You've been cutting pensions for the pensioners. You could have found the money another way, first of all by preventing the corruption that is happening in the government of the Republic of Serbia. That'll be your first step, and then take it slow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65653	I thank my colleague Seselj. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65654	First, to clear up right now, a letter of intent or a memorandum, as someone calls a document, is a paper that doesn't guarantee anyone anything. He doesn't guarantee anything to anyone. So someone wrote a memo, suggested we sign it, where he said -- we'll make an offer. It doesn't say anywhere that we have to accept the offer. Nowhere. We invited others to make their offers. Why didn't they? Ask them, leave us alone. Leave us alone for that matter. Next, don't tell me you know how much the Moravia Corridor costs. You don't know. Based on what? An arbitrary, like, obvious method? Milorad Mircic: We have an offer. Do you have an offer? Give me that offer. One more thing, when you talk more about taking something from citizens, it happened in 2014 and 2016 we had elections, you didn't have as many votes as there were pensioners who felt the fiscal consolidation measures. So you didn't have that many votes, if we're going to talk about a secret vote, since someone mentioned it. We had elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. You didn't have as many votes, your candidate as there were pensioners who were struck by fiscal consolidation. Now one question logically – why are you crying at someone else's grave? And those who have felt the fiscal consolidation measures don't trust you. You fight for their votes for free – you won't get them. You won't, they don't trust you anymore. There's no more of that. The Republic of Serbia now has a secure future, stable public finances, feels better, will be a little better every day than yesterday, and a little worse than tomorrow. If you blame Alexander Vukic for leading Serbia that way, then I know if you really love your country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65655	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65656	If it's so irrelevant to the protocol, the memorandum or whatever, then what's the American ambassador going to do with irrelevant things? If that's irrelevant, what's the U.S. ambassador to the Ministry of Infrastructure doing? If that doesn't matter, he could have sent a job messenger or some attaché there, right? Where did we get information for Bechtel? It seems to me, Aleksandar Antic, Mr Milicevic correct me if I am wrong, was the minister of infrastructure before Zorana Mihajlovic. This was before 2014, when it was first discussed the construction of the Moravian corridor. An estimate of the Chinese company is 500m euros and one company from Azerbaijan, and then we saw that it is priced at 800m euros. So these are all facts, you can easily check on the Internet, how it happened. What Aleksandar Vukic also criticised is corruption over the construction of the Ljig-Preljina stock, where about 40m euros were stolen, was attacked by G 17+, the Democratic Party and others, now doing the SNS, only more money will be sucked out of Serbia, 300m euros through Bechtel. How can it be the same if Bechtel has three years or two more of time here to investigate the move to build a sea corridor of privileges compared to any other company. Insufficient information, that's not allowed, Mr. Arsic. How can you deal with direct contracts? An invitation is being called so that only Bechtel can pass, no other company. That's what you've done and that's what shows that absolute differences between SNS regimes and between DS regimes are purely personal, and we can see that they're less and less personal, the same player, but other uniforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65657	I thank my colleague Seselj. Only a small suggestion, Mr Antic was not the minister of infrastructure during that period, but the minister of traffic, if you're talking about the period 2013/2014. (Alexander Seselj: It is related to the construction of the highway. ) Traffic infrastructure was singled out. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65658	It now turns out that our ambassadors all over the world must not lobby that our companies in those countries where they find themselves get jobs, because if we forbid it to the American ambassador, everyone has the right to ban us anywhere in the world. Now, it turns out in this discussion that Chinese companies are less capable than American companies because, according to my esteemed colleague, only Bechtel could meet the conditions prescribed by the ministry. So it turns out that Chinese companies are worse than American companies, or less capable. That's what you just said, I didn't say that. I'm just asking a question - where are their offers when a public call was made? They met the condition to participate in the procedure. Here, I tell you, they're as good as the Americans, if not better, but their offers are gone, they didn't show up. Now you expect, I suppose, that Serbia should stop, that nothing should be done until someone assesses that it is in his economic interest to accept the call of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't say that. That's impossible. One more thing, when you talk when something was stolen, it was stolen by 2012. Well, don't say that. You condemned Tomislav Nikolic for winning and stealing until 2012, so you can't forgive him. You can't forgive him for taking off the yellow ones. You will never forgive Alexander Wolfie for not being able to beat him. You can't go back with the yellows to power, how will you? Then we'll talk about that Serbia should stop, that everything has been stolen, that everything has been abused, that nothing is wrong, etc. That's all you have to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65659	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65660	When you are a semi-colonial country or even a colony, when you cannot make any sovereign decisions in any area, in the economy, in the social sphere, or as far as infrastructure is concerned, of course one representative such as Bechtel will come from the Empire to pay for the racket. That's what you unfortunately allowed. Bechtel had more time here to explore the market, Bechtel had a special status compared to any other potential performer, Bechtel had the support of the US ambassador, who even then spoke in the middle of the government of the Republic of Serbia about how Kosovo is an independent state and Serbia needs to be reconciled as soon as possible. Without any protest, without anything, we're signing protocol with Bechtel, all great. That's what's problematic about it. Chinese companies are much more quality today than Western European companies. Here are the Chinese companies, they built Milos the Great highway, the pride of western Serbia and our travel infrastructure, right? And we bring Bechtel, we pay 300m euros more, and instead of hiring some Serbian subcontractors, they will hire Turks. This is how we develop our industry, i.e. our economy. As for the yellows, you just said we're unhappy because we're no longer in power with the yellows. We're not with the yellows anymore. I think you've mixed some things here, we're not in the town of Novi Sad with Nenad Canka now since 2016, but at local level, we're not in various municipalities around Serbia in a coalition with DS, such as Petrovac at Mlava, where in the coalition power of SNS and DS, until recently in Meroshina were together, SNS also supports some DOS leaders, Sulejman Ugljanin in Prepolje, in Priboj, Tutin. Serbian advances are with them in the coalition, and how are we with the yellows? What do you mean, Chanak, DS, and Ugljanin? These are your coalition partners you're ruling today. Don't say that. He can't hide it no matter how hard we try.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65661	I thank my colleague Seselj. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65662	Mr. Chairman, in order to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, please respond next time someone calls Serbia a semi-colonial country or has no sovereignty or partial sovereignty. It is claimed that our sovereignty threatens us with Western countries, while the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is at a working meeting with Russian Federation President Putin. So much for how they know and watch politics. We want to cooperate with everyone and safeguard our economic interest and our economic rights. It's the only way we can survive. If anyone thinks we can do otherwise, let them show me how, I'd like him to sort of explain it to me. Next, don't be false. The Serbian Progressive Party is not in a coalition with DS in Petrovac, Mlavi. It's not. That's where the DS doesn't even have any councilmen. They left the board club and supported SNS policy. One more thing, never a great river pours itself into a small river, but vice versa, a small river into a large river. So Nenad Canak in Novi Sad must support the SNS program. He has to, if he wants to be here. It must support every other political option... (The Faith of Radeta: who today are pearls all. We are, we are pearly, because we carry out the measures. So everyone comes to the coalition with the SNS if they respect the SNS program. We're not afraid that if someone cancels and we don't have a majority in the National Assembly anymore, to discuss elections unlike some, but I also have the right to ask, does the SRS as a minority partner in the Old Town support Mark Bastac? Because when you're minority, then you support whoever has more councilmen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65663	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65664	We heard just before that Nenad Canak, as he pours himself into the SNS, must support power in Novi Sad. No, he must support the SNS government in Novi Sad... (Veloljub Arsic: Program, not power, different things. )......................................................................................................... And to be in the coalition with the SNS in Novi Sad because you gave him the Company water and sewerage and the Communal Company of the Market. That's why he has to support the SNS, not the program, what a program. So you and Canak have the same program. Am I here to understand you well? What's the program, Nenada Chanka? Is the programme Nenada Canak an independence of Vojvodina, Serbia is a fascist state, Serbs have committed genocide, Kosovo is an independent, all possible worst thing about Serbs and the Serb people? Is that his program since he showed up on the political scene? Yes, it is. So, you agreed on the program, you couldn't find yourself around some other things, probably. So we're in a coalition in Old Town. Come on, when you attack like that, do it, arrest someone, arrest someone. Whoever broke the law should go to jail, see if there are radicals out there who broke the law or someone else. Recently, in the municipality of Pozega, the entire leadership of the SNS was arrested with all the presidents of the municipality. Arrested for stealing, and the SRS, which is also in the coalition government in that municipality, found that there were no irregularities because they were honest people, and the advances were all arrested. First you investigate your ranks where all your thieves are, and then we can talk about some other municipalities. No, they left the DS, so they're with us. Well, yeah, it's not like that, then everything's fine, then it's like they never had anything to do with the Democrats. Please, first you need to see the log in your eye before you transfer someone to the thorn in his.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65665	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65666	I really, I ask one question and it doesn't get an answer, it gets something else. In 2014, the SNS had 156 or 157 MPs. We have called upon all who wish well to the Republic of Serbia, which is the principle of our programme, firstly to be able to participate in the SNS government. Here at the republican level, those who approached it respected all the agreements and programming objectives of the SNS. Now, whether Nenad Canak is in the coalition at the republican level with the SNS, and the question of the autonomy of Vojvodina is the issue, the republican issue, the problems related to our southern province of KIM are political issues at the level of the Republic. Is it or isn't it? No, he's not here, he doesn't support the government of the Republic of Serbia, he doesn't support Alexander Vukic. That we'll clear our ranks first. We clear our ranks. There were MPs here, so they were stripped of their immunity on certain matters. But I have to ask one question, I understand that some political interest makes a political party maybe do something they wouldn't otherwise, I understand that when it comes to Old Town. But there's something you can't cross over. It cannot be moved to support the president of a violent community, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia saw it, harassing citizens of Belgrade, harassing everyone who doesn't think the same as him, putting bags on people's heads. That's what his best man says. What are you going to do with a man like that? The other are political attitudes, this is one of the most common thieves and thugs and nothing else. You support him to receive two salaries, one as president of the Assembly, and the other as a member of the municipal council. In doing so, you're still giving support to beating up citizens, taking away their money for illegal construction and harassing people who are passing through the Republic Square, you support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65667	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65668	Please, whoever breaks the law to go to jail. So, the SNS has been in power for seven years, all the ministries are in her hands. Whoever breaks the law, you obviously know all about it, go to the D.A., go to the police, explain everything about it, and go to jail whoever broke the law. Don't give us that. We saw how it ended up in Požega. That's where they were arrested all the way to one of the advances. That's what we're talking about. If anyone here has broken the law, that's what it's supposed to be. You say the program is important, we've invited everyone to participate. You called in the markets, in Novi Sad, Chanka and invited you to the Public municipal water and sewerage company, in Novi Sad Nenada Chanka. What can they contribute there? They are exclusively working their entire existence against Serbia and violating our territorial integrity and sovereignty. There's an independent Vojvodina in their program. You support it and you give them public enterprises in Novi Sad. Where is Mr. Atlagic, let's see what he calls your coalition partner, Nenada Canka, from Novi Sad. Don't do that. Don't transfer, solve your problems first, then transfer something to us. You support Sulejman Ugljanin, who said Stefan Nemanja is a war criminal, that Serbia is a fascist state, that it has committed genocide in Sandzak, which speaks the most disgusting things about our people, is your coalition partner in Tutin, Prepolje and Priboj. What does that mean? Is it then that you've come together about this program, like the program with Chanka? Please solve these problems first, and then when you can without the burden of your coalition partners to talk, then we will discuss other coalitions in Serbia, why not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65669	Comrade Arsic, do you want a replica? No, I don't. ) We continue according to the amendment, the word of the People's MP, Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65670	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, first and foremost for these coalitions on whether we are with Ugljanin and this abuse of those coalitions for political purposes. We are in coalition with the people, with our neighbours, friends who are members of both DS and BDZ and SDPS. This Sulj's outings, that he's taking off at moments when he's not connected to the chair, we're trying to ignore it, to rise above the situation, and to make nothing worse where we live in peace and harmony, and so we plan to move on living. The same Sulejman Ugljanin, in previous presidential elections in Tutina and Sjenica, where the presidents of the SDA municipality, called for the vote for Sasa Jankovic, and then for these Gilas and other candidates. Both in Sjenica, and in Tutin, Aleksandar Vukic won over 70% of the votes. It is precisely Alexander Vukic's policy to rise above the situation and to keep Ugljanin alone in those statements. I know very well that I come from the Rasko-Polym area, my name is Cross. What a nickname he'll give me, I don't know. I don't know, I know it's the Rasko-Polym area. But I know I won't let anything disrupt our field relations. As I know you don't want it either, you don't mean anything to Bosniaks or Muslims. But that's the way it is. We are directed at each other and we must use those differences to be even better, in favour of a better future. As for the coalition in Požega, the same very interesting situation. First, I think you should respect something that's a legal alphabet, which is a presumption of innocence. You immediately said these people were thieves. Let's see what this process is going to say. But your men in Pozega have made a coalition much faster with these men who have been arrested than with these new people. Me and Despot broke together when we were building a new power in Pozega. And do you know what was the problem with your committees supporting the new leadership in Požega? Because the president of Pozega municipality, they say, is very young. And he's as old as you are. Does that mean you're not good too because you're young? He was an excuse - because he was young. That's exactly why I think he's good, and that shows. I don't think you're bad either because you're young. But don't run into those convictions and stuff. On the ground, things like that happen, but if we're going to look at it like that, in general, I haven't heard a member of Sulj's party tie up a Serb and put a bag on his head, tie him to a chair and ask him for stuff. It sounds strange, but all these coalition partners you've listed, and considering them harmful to us, they're always more than welcome from the garden. And I think it was more correct that you fenced yourself from those councilmen, but you said earlier, yes, we do. So you didn't fence yourself from those councilmen, and that's why you didn't even fence yourself from Mark Bastac. Is it normal for someone to tie someone up? Is it normal for someone to send someone there for a racket? That man admitted it. Imagine, try to imagine that this happened in the ranks of the Serbian Progressive Party, that the godfather of the SNS community brought something like that to the media. We'd be crucified. NIN would have to throw out its circulation three times a day, just for the front page, if it had happened that the godfather of the SNS community had done something like that. But if that were the case, that godfather would probably be... I mean, anything that's harmful to the SNS, we have no doubt. It's commendable on their part, but I'm telling you, coalitions are not made for the sake of power. All the places you've listed, we don't depend on the voices of these people. So, we in Priboj, the SNS won out of 41 councilors itself 22. No one needed us, that we were only eager for the authorities. But we're not just eager for power, we're eager for peace, stability and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65671	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica of the exhibition of colleagues Janjusevic? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65672	Of course, no one should encourage any inter-confunctional or ethnic tensions, and from that point of view you're absolutely right. Serbs and Muslims should live in brotherly harmony and love. But we cannot compare, if someone is accused, primarily in the media for corruption, and someone who calls for the secession of part of the territory and recognises part of Serbia's territory as independent, as Sulejman Ugljanin recognises Kosovo's independence. So, it's about corruption and the greatest crime for which you go to prison for life, an attack on constitutional order, i.e. High treason. It's not the same. You're talking about the presumption of innocence. You're right, I couldn't agree more. Then first you should tell your colleagues to respect the same assumption of innocence among everyone else, not that in advance some people are convicted and accused. Your colleague, Mr. Nolic, spoke a little earlier about how members of the SRS were also stealing from Old Town and whatnot. Where's the presumption of innocence? Please, if there's any crime and corruption, go to jail. But we can't compare someone who's only been accused in the National Assembly Hall, in some media, there's no indictment, there's no process, there's nothing, and you're still attributing it to us. What's up? Is there someone up there who talks about Serbia as fascists and Serbs as genocides, or is there someone up there who makes some pointless performances around Belgrade? There's got to be some difference, isn't there?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65673	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Rade, submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65674	Thank you. When Nada Mesarovic, as president of the Supreme Court, read the verdict on the murder of Zoran Djindjic, then she was told the truth and said - we received a verdict. I was convinced that no one would ever overshadow it until today, a colleague of Ljiljana Malusic and the public said what is unfortunately a sad truth - that laws are not passed in the National Assembly, but that only votes are made here. We know long ago that this is the case and that the National Assembly is in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but, behold, it is good to hear it from someone who is an MP of power. Here is one of the previous amendments, when it comes to equalising the marriage and the extramarital community when it comes to pension-inhabited insurance and, of course, it's a good thing that's the case. But she's also a co-worker who's been lecturing on the fact that she hasn't actually read the bill. And it really is a fundamental problem, which here colleagues from the government, and it is not a position, as the colleague says, but there are authorities and oppositions, and not the position and opposition, so the colleagues from the government only have this mantra -- the Bravo Government, the Wolfic, bravo this, bravo this, and they can't even get into a serious debate about the bill at all. If marriage and extramarital communities are even and the court ruling determines the right to endure, that is regulated by Article 8, what will Article 32, which specifically prescribes it? If that's what the court is gonna do, then it shouldn't be standing here. As far as the amendment is concerned, our proposal is to coordinate pensions twice a year, compared to the rise in prices to small and the growth of average earnings in Serbia. It's only realistic to reach as much as a decent amount of pensions, because what's now is something that's unworthy of the life of a man who's worked for 30, 40 years. Here, I end up with this sentence, the unchanged position of the SRS is that the lowest pension, as well as the lowest salary, can't be less than the lowest consumer basket, it's at this point 37,000 dinars, everything below that is an insult. Everything below that is social aid. Everything below is incompetence and carelessness of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65675	Thank you. My colleague Malušić mentioned you during the presentation of Rade's colleague and you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65676	Thank you very much. I already said it was a lapus lingu, or I was interrupted. Indeed, in this assembly, the first thing we read in the Rules of Procedure is what we do here and what is the function, and you know it well that I know, legislative and control. But I wanted to say that we don't make the laws, so you interrupted me by laughing, not me, but by saying, "Bye-bye," like the yellow ones did. O you who have stolen, call on us constantly, so how can you not arrest them? How can I arrest them when they've passed laws and for the sake of their own interests? So this one bought Sugar for two euros, this one did this, this one off the bank's debt, this one has this one... That's what I wanted to say and you know it. Let's talk about pensions again. Of course it's good for the government. How big is our budget surplus? Sixty-six billion dinars, of course it's good for the government. This year, 1.314.5 billion dinars, of course, is good for the government. Now you're going to call me back, because we've made 350 kilometers of highways. We make fast tracks, we renovate hospitals, schools, we build new schools. In a year, two days, we'll open Corridor 11. We do everything we need to do and everything we promised. I have the right to make a lapus, as you all do. If we get there, I'm gonna start writing who's talking and every time someone calls, I'm gonna answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65677	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Comrade Radeta, would you like a replica? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Right on the line. Here you go. (Alexander Seselj: Not the language, but the right language.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65678	Yes, it's not a language, it's a right, it's an old folk, here, it's often proven true. Does it say anything in the Rules of Procedure? It says. Is the Rules of Procedure respected? You don't respect yourself. Does it say something in the Constitution? It says. Is the Constitution respected? You don't respect yourself. Here, specifically when it comes to pensions. We had an entire debate here today about how we should see what the Constitutional Court said. Do you know what the Constitutional Court said when it comes to pensions, or the law on the basis of which pensions were taken for four years? The Constitutional Court said it would not be declared because the law of temporary character. Imagine that abnormality. Imagine, for example, that some congregation majority, far away, fall to the thought of passing the law – the next three months allowed to kill on the street. The Constitutional Court, this one of ours, would say – we will not assess constitutionality because it is a law of temporary character. Then you're even talking about the Constitutional Court, the role of the Constitutional Court. He can be 300 times the Constitutional Court, his decision is unconstitutional. It's something no one can... It's not the Constitutional Court of the Holy Scriptures, something inscribed that can't be criticized. If he can't be criticized, then put him somewhere in the illegals, like Zagu Dolovac, for putting him in the illegals. A colleague's story about how big she is. I have to say, there's no Minister of Cynthia Malloy right now, he would certainly agree, because he's a man of that matter and he knows it, the one who boasts about the surplus doesn't know what the budget is. There's no good surplus in the budget, no deficit. A government that can't make a real budget, makes a budget either with a deficit or with a surplus, the way it suits it. Do you think it's some real situation, you have a lot of money somewhere, etc.? Don't deceive the people. As for what he bought three-euro sugars, is that what he was sentenced to 12 years in prison for this crime? It's not? No one's convicted. Shut up then.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65679	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65680	The hundredth time, so we didn't bring it, the yellow ones passed the laws so they could rob. We're passing completely different laws, which is why the state is moving forward. As far as the budget goes, back, since 2008, 2009, not to mention what their budgets were like before, when they were bigger? We need to talk about the budget surplus. To increase wages and pensions, to give gifts, to build highways, there are living 730m euros in the budget for the Moravski Corridor? How would you build high-speed rails? Of course, from the loan. But we also have living money, people, why don't we brag? We do good, we don't steal, like they steal yellow and the rest with them. Who he was, I don't care. I can't talk about theft anymore, but I have to brag about those results of our work, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president. Why not? A man works every day, I don't think anyone's ever done what Mr. Wolf does. And if your president was the Republic, I would, believe me, also say. It works and has work results, that's the point, and I'll always say what's good, and I'll criticize what's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65681	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65682	Well done, colleague Malusic. The yellows passed laws so they could steal, says a colleague. They, like you, just voted, didn't bring, but it doesn't matter now. Here, it is true, so who was against those laws, who fought in the National Assembly, who told you what the laws would produce, but we Serbian radicals? But what happened in the meantime? Why didn't you change those laws? Why don't you pass laws on which you can criminally match the one who's a thief? Why don't you apply the laws that exist? There are a lot of laws that would take a lot of people long to be in prison, but you're not going to do it because you're protecting them. We will repeat a million times – Dinkic, Labus, Vlahović, Pitic, Djelic, I forgot, of course, at least this many more. You from the government, perhaps co-worker Malusic isn't even aware of it, maybe she's too aware of some of her ideals about "Bravo Vlad", maybe not many of you, but, remember what we Serbian radicals tell you, who we know perfectly, the government deliberately protects these people, prolongs all of this to soon come out of obsolescence and that they can say, each of these people -- you can't tell me that I'm a thief, it's been 20 years and from the crime I've committed. He can admit then, then he can go on TV and say, as Dinkic – it is true, I entered the National Bank with long pipes. When it's 20 years, no one can touch him or even call him a criminal for it. Guys, there's got to be something to learn and read to discuss in this room. So, on purpose, you do it, the government works, here, I won't tell the MPs... The executive government is doing this to get all these crimes out of date because you've been hanging out with these ex-government thieves, some of them in power, some of the ministers, some of the state secretaries, some of the directors of public enterprises, some of them aren't formally any of that, but they're informal and they're both with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65683	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65684	Thank you. They say to read a little bit? Here, we'll read it to you. In 2013, the indictment against former Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragina and 20 other associates was confirmed. Was that it? It was. Who did that? You're not safe. The trial is ongoing. The privatisation of Luke Belgrade, is being tried by former Economy Minister Predrag Bubal and seven others. Was that it? It was. Who did this? You're not safe. The first acquittal was lifted. The second trial is expected to end in December, they say - we will see. Abuses in the Nub Invest case are again being tried by former Environment Minister Oliver Dulic and his associates. He was sentenced to three and a half years, and his deputy, Nebojsa Janjic, to three. The appeal court has not confirmed the verdict. He's ordered a retrial, currently in progress. Have they become the subject of competent authorities' interest? Yes, it was. Did you do it? You're not. - Who was that? ) Who do you think did, if it was 2013, 2014, 2015? Who do you think did it? I'm asking who did it. It's not Dragan Gilas, for sure. So who did it? It's not your Dragan Gilas, for sure, but those people and that country that you're talking complete nonsense again that they're not going to deal with this. Do you see how he won't? Also, a first-degree court epilogue should soon win the Metals Bank case and Agrobanke, and you must have heard of it and that it was and that it was not you, surely, which is the state you unjustly accuse of not dealing with. We're as representatives of the majority, and that's what we were talking about here, we passed a law based on which... (Marian Risticevic: What about Milosavljevic? ) That is right, the subject of organ interest has also become Milosavljevic, also a former minister, so that you do not worry about it. The law that we have passed as Members of the majority, here are some results. Because of corruption right now, under that law that we passed, 172 is in prison. Reports filed against thousands of officials and officials. The charges against about 1300 now, 65 are in prison for various abuses of position, 37 convictions for money laundering only this year, 34 in prison for bribery, and 641 were forced to reach an agreement. So, found guilty, admitted guilty. Now someone's saying we're not gonna deal with this. It's funny, on the one hand, but what's not even funny and it's inconclusive when someone tells us, and you did that at the end of your exposure, we were sedated with thieves. There's no bigger thief than Dragna Gilas. When his laps walk around Old Town? Do we maybe?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65685	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65686	Maybe a little inappropriately, I was throwing away and asking my colleague Orlic -- who, who, when he was talking about who was arresting and who wasn't arresting. I did it on purpose to make him say what I wanted to hear, and he said it was them -- government, state. So he also said that the institutions of the system don't function. I'm not going to talk about whether Sasa Dragin, Oliver Dulic, Milosavljevic, Bubalo, whether or not they are subject to a presupunciation of innocence, but as a lawyer, I say, a good lawyer, I dare say one great legal sin for Vlahovic, Dinkic, Labus, Djelic and Djilas, is so obviously a crime, that I can't even get over their mouths with their innocence. When will they, gentlemen, respond? He says, Gilas is the biggest thief, the criminal, what did his colleague say, but when is he going to jail? When's that money he stole on the bridge? He's walking that bridge free, he doesn't care. He's still proud that it's his bridge, that it's the work that's left behind. Vlahovic holds a lecture to the government of the Republic of Serbia, he is the president of an economic forum there, sitting the prime minister, like this, sitting down, here, and Mr. Mali and the others. Vlahovic gives them a lecture. What does he teach them? How is it stolen? How are thieving privatisations being conducted? Where are they responsible for those criminal privatisations? Yesterday someone here mentioned how many hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs because of these privatisations. Yeah, it's true. That's what we've been talking about and talking about for years. We were the first to say that privatizations were committed only to obtain good locations for malls, hotels, etc. First, we Serbian radicals talked about it. A man at the conference said that the other day, he remembered. So we always say that and our attitude has never changed, but you change your attitudes. That's the problem. If you tell someone he's a thief, that he's a criminal, that he's a thief, then you can't accept him to be with you in society, my people. Of all the ones I'm listing, you're not open with Gilas right now. When I say it out loud, you'll see something else soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65687	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65688	I really don't know who's changing attitudes? If we're talking about this Giolas, who you just mentioned, and it's good that you mentioned him, we're telling me the same thing all along, and I, to remind you, called a press conference the other day because I had this question to ask the Republic Attorney. So it's all in the hands of the institutions and it should be. But, look, let me explain to you this stupid and naive how it's possible that this Gilas that I said was a thief could, with everything you say, be obvious to you, and obviously to me, still be free? Here, I don't understand it. I don't understand how he can still be out there. How can today be a day of gardening and boasting, that's not clear to me, and that's a question to be asked to the prosecutor, and I asked him there. It's good to see some things seem to be moving, so as much as anyone might have hoped some obsolescence would occur, there, there's an investigation. It's been a few years, but it seems it takes some time where they've been trying to get a good lead, so there's been some investigations. I can only hope, along with you, that these investigations will have that epilogue that every honest man in this country hopes for. That, first of all, concerns that jilas thief. But wait a minute, do you want to talk about changing attitudes? Do you want to talk about principle? Now you've named Dragan Gilas among the biggest thieves, and what are you doing with him in Old Town? What a shift in attitudes not from today to tomorrow, not from minutes to minutes, but from sentence to sentence in the same exhibition. Do we agree that he's one of the biggest thieves? You're saying I don't even admit his innocence prejudication. Here, I don't admit it either. What are you doing with him in Old Town then? What kind of principled behavior is that? It's the same level of principle as that, since you mentioned an investigation into some privatisations, I'll remind you of that, when, just over 19, 20 years ago, he commented on the privatisation of the 1990s, Vojislav Seselj. Do you remember what he said then? He said it was a matter of order in society whether or not you can cancel the privatisation. To remind you of his words then. He responded to someone - let them pay one mark, if the state has admitted that the purchase is legal, then no one has the right to undo it, because it brings anxiety and destroys the economic system and any future investment. That's what he said then. What did you just say about one, two or three euros and privatisation? I'm not going to argue with you about it, I'm just telling you how principled it is and in line with what you said before. (President: Thank you, colleague. () Why did I react here earlier? You said one thing that's much harder. You said we were dealing with thieves. Now rewind, let someone bring you the steno notes of your words two and a half minutes ago. Is Dragan Gilas the biggest thief? Do we agree on that? Then who was dealing with Gilas, not to say dealing with thieves?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65689	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65690	Do you know what we're doing with Gilas? A chat with him about what it was like when he was Vucic's president of the basketball union of Serbia. We love it so much. As for what I said and how we were changing attitudes, I didn't say now, nor did we ever say that we needed to take something away, but everyone needs to be held accountable. Whoever bought the candy for three euros should go to jail if they... But not just him. That job is corrupt. He can't be any different. So someone from the government at the time, from the top of the government, has to go to jail, along with whoever bought that candy. As for that, you're talking to the D.A., poor you, so the D.A. won't react. You know, no matter how the three branches of government are set up in Serbia, according to our Constitution, you, both as a parliamentary majority and as a government and as your representatives, the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and in the Council of Prosecutors, have the most powerful instruments to move, to initiate the dismissal of prosecutors because of unconscious work, for keeping cases in drawers. You have and it's not an influence on the judicial branch of government, but this branch of government, legislative, which is even with the executive and judicial branch, is a little more equal than these two branches. That's what you'll agree. That's what the Constitution says. This branch of government also has certain supervisory functions. It has functions in what it proposes and chooses certain people for certain functions. Whoever does this has the right to start the sweat of someone's good or bad work. So, a million and 976,3, this is what someone would say at the conference, there's a reason to put a report on this agenda here for Zagorka Dolovac's work, so if we were to talk -- we file this criminal charges, we file this criminal charges, we file criminal charges for Brussels agreements, we file criminal charges for Tom's degree, we file criminal charges as long as you want, and then Mrs Zaga comes, and then we convince you that she really doesn't do anything, that you vote, as we do, that you don't adopt her report and that she has to leave, but you won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65691	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65692	If we'd done it all that way, we'd be even bigger than the Democrats, the dictator we already are. Do you know that? We listen every day – autocracy in Serbia, dictatorship in Serbia, not to let people breathe, they take over all institutions, they usurp everything; then we get to that prosecution and then you say we have no control. You resent us for not doing as much as we could. What kind of dictators are we, then, and what kind of tyranny is this here, I don't know, and I don't understand? It's pretty much the kind of tyranny we're running over the media, and for that, every day, God is accusing us of justice, and then on the front page, Alexander Vukic can appear with a sniper rifle pointed at his chest. Is that right? It's the most normal thing. Then it can do the same thing again the next day just now it's a little bit sketchy, now it's a little different because it's drawn, but it's the same message, it's the same picture. Sniper again pointed at Alexander Wolfiche. Then the third day can appear, Alexander Vukic, with eight targets all over his body, I guess they choose which corner they prefer to throw at him, which part of his body to throw at him. So we're big dictators in the media. We're such big dictators when it comes to the police. You see, the police, so the M.O.P., takes action, finds some of them who were growing marijuana and then tells us -- it's not the police you have control over, it's some other police working against you and you're guilty of all this. What dictatorship are we? What are we under God's command here if we don't have the police under control, we have nothing under control? So that's all the answers to your questions about how scary this is here with us. Zagorka Dolovac, mentioned by you, on the day I held the conference here to ask her this, this is for Gilas the thief you're asking now. That day they went to protest against her those who brought her in to be who she was. So, Djilas, Shane Petrovic, the one Borko Stefanovic, we remember him since that "Satellite" Davinic affair, the insidious Bosko Obradovic, all in turn have accumulated that against those women they brought in, something like protesting and saying -- she works for us. See for yourself how much he works for us. You say - Gilas the thief, I say Gilas the thief. It is not clear to you what he is on the loose, I say – it is not clear to me either. We both turn our heads to the D.A.'s office, and there's a pain in the ass. It's such a big dictatorship and so much of anything we abuse. I asked you something else earlier, you won't give me an answer, you say, "You're talking to Gilas." Come on, when you're talking, ask him about the 619 million. It wouldn't be bad if you revealed it not to me and Serbia, but to the whole world. The whole world wants to know how it can be so beautifully capable that while you're in office, in power, you're rich for such abnormal parity. But there's something else I wanted to tell you, these laws I've read to you that we adopted them, they fit. That law that, don't worry about it, we'll also adopt it, as far as the origin of the property is concerned. He's making them nervous, and that Gilas and that crew of his who serve him, among other things, in Old Town. When you talk about voting, since you already resented us not only doing anything but voting, because otherwise you don't do it, and you don't vote, come to that law when it's on the agenda to vote together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65693	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65694	We asked Gilas and he said - I don't care, I know I'm a thief, I know I stole but I don't want these because I'm with some people beautiful, as they say in Serbia. Otherwise, this debate turns into a conversation with the benches, we as serious politicians don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65695	Thank you, colleague Radeta. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Comrade Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65696	There is much unclear in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and therefore illogical when it comes to explaining the reasons for the adoption of such laws. In fact, it is the "Switzerland model" which refers to pension increases. When we talk about a total increase in both wages and pensions, then we have one explanation that to raise wages in the public sector, which is that GDP growth is at that level that can be done. It is that the inflow in the budget is so much that it can go towards an increase and ultimately that the budget surplus is so much that it can withstand an increase in wages in the public sector from 8% to 15%. This growth in budgets and budgets is equally available for those who are retired and for us who are working and for those who are just about to start a working relationship or to be pensioners. For everything equally. It can't be discrimination when it comes to GDP, so it applies to public sector employees and not to pensioners. That doesn't make any sense. Second, this “Switzerland model ” is based on something that is, at the very least, strange. It is based on the average income in Serbia and net income, without contributions, without taxes. Receipts are all receipts, including contributions and taxes, that's all that gets and earns a man. This reduces the percentage of whether half of that average income. Secondly, the next factor, or what is taken as a model for the Swiss way, is an average of some price or cost increase. That's half a percent of it. Look, a man can't believe it, there's a thought being imposed, you're just playing with that category of population. You explain to them that all this revenue in the budget is increased, which is growing GDP, it's not valid for them. They're exempt from it. Only half of Serbia's income average and something that is completely unclear is the rise in real costs or these average costs. No one knows how to explain it, nor do we understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65697	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Comrade Arsic, would you like to make an amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65698	Here, let me explain. Growth in public sector earnings enables one part of pension growth and pension growth. Here, right away, it allows pensions to grow because of my colleague Mircic's 100 dinars that he gets from his salary, of the 100 dinars 36 goes to the PIO fund. If he gets 110 dinars, he'll go 40 dinars. Now, if we start with this one demagogue, then we need to be aware that we're going to have a higher budget burden to touch on the amount of pensions in the PIO fund. There's one difference. Every public administration employee has net and gross budget participations. It's gross with all the contributions. The net is reduced by contributions to the budget and the PIO Fund. So, if you're against the increase in public sector earnings, not only are you against those who work in the public sector having a better standard of living, you're also against raising pensions. Talk about it with you once and for all. So you can't attack one another, and that one's causing the other one you're defending. You can't. So you need to know what's gross and what's net about pensions and budgeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65699	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Comrade Mircic, you want a replica of the exhibition of fellow Arsic. Milorad Mircic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65700	Don't be angry, colleague Arsic, but you look more and more like a dream interpreter to me. What you're saying is, it's based on a part of a science called economics, finance, but this is about increasing pensions and wages. I guess they should depend on both of the same factors, on increasing GDP and on increasing revenues in the budget. How come when wages and pensions were cut, they were reduced at the same and equal percentage, and when they increased, it was different? How is salary increases affected by GDP growth and pension increases are not affected by GDP growth in the same proportion and level, how? How do you explain that? That doesn't make sense. Secondly, the private sector, the developing economy, is the most responsible for surpluses or the increased revenue side in the budget. It does not create most of the GDP of those working in the public sector, but those working in the private sector, in the economy. Most of it they create. How is it disproportionate to growth, economic growth? How do you interpret that? Not as an interpreter of dreams, but something based on real economy. You can declare that GDP is a record, not behind Hungary in the third quarter, but that it is a record. It has nothing to do with what reality is. This increase should be explained to pensioners, as it is not in proportion to the increase in wages in the public sector, and when it was reduced, it was the same or the same reduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65701	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65702	I'm not going to interpret anyone's dreams, I just want to talk about facts, and the fact is that the pensions since 2016 have been partly increased, i.e. that the burdens that pensioners have to do with fiscal consolidation have been reduced. By 2019, public sector salaries were increased only in police, military, one part in education and one part in health care. So, for five years, the public sector had almost no increase. Because of these five years that they haven't had an increase, today they have 8.8% and are equating with all others who have had increases, counting pensioners as well. Here, it is, so no one can argue with it. So now we've brought to the extent that it's been with all the increases since 2014, which they've had, to say the reliefs, not the increases, which the pensioners had, one large number, between a million and 200 and a million and 300,000, have not been reduced. I suppose you expect those who work in the public sector to have a right. The most affected are young people, who are at the beginning of their careers. Well, what do you think a graduate lawyer and economist, who starts working at the public administration, knows how much he has a salary, 35-36 grand, and he needs, except he's coming to work, to start a family, to make kids, to teach those kids. Well, I guess those kids are the future, huh? Well, I guess because of these children, born and born, the pensioners supported fiscal consolidation measures. They supported, the great majority, and you can't argue that. Forget the story. You will no longer get votes on pensions, no one will get votes, no one from the opposition and the former regime will get those votes, because the pensioners today are living better than they did before 2014, and they know that every year they will get better than the previous ones. That's why you won't get any more votes for retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65703	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65704	Oh, they live so well, you'd say Kočić's hero David Strbac, sing, sweet, we're not hearing it. Mr. Arsic, no one here speaks in order to win the electoral body or vote from a part of the population living in Serbia. This is about the truth. You're trying to explain something that is not only contrary to economy and legality, but to mathematics. You, for example, took 20 out of 100 dinars. So then, to those 80, they increased 10%, and they said, "You got that back." Well, it's not. That 10% is based on base 80. If it was returned, it would be based on 100. It's just the base on which you're calculating the increase and nothing else. And that's where you get a little lost, not in a bad way, but in the sense that you're trying to convince the pensioners, that they've been increased, that the malts, as you say, should return now after this 5% increase. We're just asking, we're asking the question -- if the budget rise, if it's a budget surplus, if GDP rise, why are pensioners 5%, and those in the public sector 8% to 15%? Why? What kind of logic is that? If it's an ominous method, we don't mind, say - that's right, that's how it's estimated, that's how it can be done. Whether she's evaluated by the government or by someone outside the government, we can discuss it, but don't convince us, don't explain what's unacceptable, what's coming down with a science called a percentage bill and it's in mathematics, Mr. Arsic. So it's not worth it. Don't call all the time - we want the votes of the pensioners. Who will vote for whom Serbia will vote, we will see that next year. What are you burdened with? First, try to return these for which the EU has given you the imperative, to return them to the elections. It's your preoccupation. Don't be burdened with us Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65705	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65706	We can also talk about percentages and percentage amounts and we can talk about everything, but only one information of all games of numbers deny and sets it right. The pension fund for 2020 is higher by 200 billion dinars than for 2014. What are you talking about? Two hundred billion dinars will be paid more to the pensioners. You can count the percentages, basically, to turn upside down, nothing will fall except 200 billion dinars more for our pensioners. Now, whether it's less or less, I don't know, but 200 billion is a lot of money, money that's earned by our workers, is not spacers, and that's what they earn in the domestic sector and foreign investors, it's the evil ones that rob Serbia, which we pay for jobs. Well, who works at those jobs, even if someone is subsidized? Well, our citizen. So, what do we need money for without our citizens? Now it bothers you. It's a surplus, so there's no surplus. Let's figure out what the interest on the current public debt is. Well, a billion euros. If we gradually reduce public debt, every penny saved from these interest goes to public sector employees, goes to our infrastructure, goes to pensioners. Is that what you want? That's bad? We don't know we're planning a budget? We showed that we knew. Five years ago, we showed that we knew. Now that someone wants what's visible, tangible to close their eyes and say they don't have it, that's his problem. Only when he comes to, when he sees it, it's usually too late and usually it's called an ex-post mind, as you say, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65707	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65708	For my collegiate and humane reasons, I don't want to argue with my colleague Arsic anymore, I can see that his pressure has increased in style and manner, so let's keep this public, so the pensioners will most likely believe a series of arguments you've brought here. Only in the argument did you not use an out-of-body insemination argument. You haven't used that, you probably haven't had time to perfect yourself in that area yet, but I'll be patient, so I'll wait for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65709	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by the people sent by Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, with his team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, pensioners, we have submitted an amendment that reads – pension starts from pension for January of the current year is adjusted to a percentage of 40% change in consumer prices and 60% change in average income without taxes and contributions in the public sector. We from PUPS in constructive co-operation and discussion with the Union of Pensioners of Serbia have submitted this amendment. You're gonna ask maybe why? Well, here. After us difficult years have been followed by a measure of tough fiscal consolidation, and we all agreed that the greatest burden has actually been borne by pensioners. We from PUPS, as a responsible political party, at times when it was necessary to support the heavy fiscal consolidation measures, very difficult, on the one hand, but also very bravely, we made that decision and we supported those measures with the goal of saving the country from bankruptcy, even though we were aware of all other risks. What's next? There was a stabilisation of finance, followed by a surplus in the budget, year after year in a row. Last week, we adopted a 2020 budget that envisions further investment, growth and investment development in almost all sectors. We also agreed that we and other relevant actors, even members of the Fiscal Council, that this budget is developmental. Also, it predicts salary growth and pension growth. For us at PUPS, it's good that pensions are regular and secure and guaranteed by the state for them. Also, I have to say that the Constitution of pensions has acquired the right to an economic category and we have to work hard and try not to turn it into a social category. I deeply believe and I am sure that this will never happen, and the reason for this belief is just yesterday's statement by our President Alexander Vukic, who said that only in October, Serbia achieved a 5% economic growth and that the annual expected economic growth will be 4%, which places us in the fastest growing countries, not in the region, but in Europe as well. A party of united pensioners of Serbia as a constructive partner understands the government's proposed solution, but based on exceptional facts, it tries to submit an amendment to improve the proposal and ensure additional economic and legal security and pension growth. This coincides with the bearing value attitude of PUPS and its President Milan Krkobic, which is famous for 3P – pensions follow the salary. So pensions are followed by salary growth in the public sector. Why do I mention the Union of Pensioners of Serbia? The pensioners' union of Serbia is the most relevant talker in terms of pension levels, pension growth, because it has 650 thousand members, in 170, which is municipal, urban, and regional associations. We consider this to be the most representative and relevant Talker and PUPS partner in efforts to provide pensioners with a further and better standard of life. The Alliance also retired in its operation decided to continue, we in PUPS understood that, at the establishment of a single body, that they had young people, which is the Council of Youth Rights, how people in the employment relationship have it, and that is the Social-Economic Council, a mixed working group that cares about the status of employees. Thus, the Union of Pensioners of Serbia insists on establishing a single body, a council in which they will be relevant representatives and decide on the status of pensioners, on their standard, on their way and quality of life, on their right to free use of spas and other types of treatment, for those pensioners with minimum income. For us from PUPS, the Union of Pensioners of Serbia is a relevant and relevant talker and together with them in this time of new economic policy we will try to do everything possible, together with the Government, as a constructive partner, for the better life of our pensioners, our pensioners. That, Mr. Minister, is today our parents, our relatives and our neighbors. In a certain number of years, we too will move into that category of pension users, so as we worry about them today, expect that some future generations will take care of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65711	Thank you. The 23rd amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65712	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome you all again and declare that we have submitted an amendment that reads – if according to the statistics authority's data, the amount of the average pension has dropped below 50% of the amount of the average tax-free income and the contribution of employees in the public sector in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is an extraordinary harmonisation of the amount of pensions needed in order to reach 50% of the amount of the average income without taxes and contributions of public sector employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All this as a basis for the continued growth of the standards of pensioners and based on experience of applying the Swiss formula between 2003 and 2005, when at the same average pension with 60% of the average salary reached a level of 42% of the average salary with a trend of further decline. In view of that one thing, let me say, not so pleasant and not so good an experience, we propose this amendment because for PUPS and its President Milan Krkobic, as well as for the Alliance of Pensioners who have reached a consensus and are determined that the average pension should not fall below 50% of the average profit, because pensions guarantee the state and they are an economic category and we strive to maintain this extraordinary harmonisation level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65713	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65714	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, while we are still talking about pension and disability insurance, we should perhaps sum up the debate so far, and I will try to do so in the part relating to the bill. Therefore, first of all, the pension and disability insurance system will be harmonised with the rules on voluntary pension funds by establishing that pension and disability insurance is mandatory. An out-of-marriage union with marriage with regard to the exercise of the right to a family pension has been leveled. It is also arranged for the payment of funeral expenses in the sense of the commitment of the PIO Fund to refund those costs. Finally, the public needs to explain what the pensioners are waiting for from January 1st and why we're talking about so-called pensioners. The Swiss model, whatever the name of that model is, pension harmonisation will be good for both pensioners and the state on the other hand. Therefore, pensions will be adjusted to a percentage of half the percentage of consumer price growth and half the percentage of profit growth. Despite the different opinions on this bill, I believe that it should be adopted with all the proposed solutions and given a chance to apply it. Today we have a PIO fund that is more and more independent. The state is getting less and less touchy about paying out pensions, and on the other hand, there's a possibility that pensions will grow. The fiscal consolidation measures were difficult and certainly not popular, but they were necessary and we are subjective. We do not say that Serbia is all the best in the world, we say that there is still a lot of work for the Serbian government and for all of us, but we also want to say that we are aware that we have achieved some results. Accordingly, I believe that this bill should also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65715	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65716	Mr. Minister, we have a very important situation here in this Article 29 for future pensioners and I'm glad Minister Djordjevic came. Last year, when we amended the Law on PIO, you had the intention, Mr. Djordjevic, to speed up the issuing of a retirement decision by changing the bill to the accounting year in which someone applied for retirement not to wait calendarly until the end, but to take an average from that year and from the previous year to speed it up. In practice, however, that is not the case. The Serbian Radical Party is against the fact that the PIO Fund, as this law has given you, which you have changed and now we have a new amendment, brings so-called. temporary solutions. There is no reason, unless it is the right to retire with a job internship from abroad, from some of the areas of the former Yugoslavia, so due to obstruction of the PIO authorities there cannot be all that data. Simply Mr. Djordjevic, those people who applied for retirement, and they've been waiting for a solution for three, four months, and there are cases and longer, are asking for such a practice to be interrupted. There's a colleague of Stanija who's worked on these jobs for so many years in Kosovo Mitrovica, so there's the same problem, is that when it comes to collecting that internship from various businesses, and especially from those who robbed these yellow ones, they didn't pay their contributions to retirement workers, but if it's all right. This way, I call on all those people who have received a temporary solution to immediately submit a request from the PIO Fund's competent unit to be given a final solution. That deadline could be up to three years now. What's going to happen to this member, who's asking for a change in the SRS? If that period goes away and someone's got an advance amount... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, Mr. Milicevic. This is important for the citizens. (President: here you go. )......................................................................................................... If it's paid in a much higher amount, that someone after that has to give a third of what he gave up, and we're asking it to be a fifth, and so it doesn't happen at all, simply let it be issued as soon as possible, finally, and then everyone knows how much his real pension is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65717	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Constitutional Court's decision - Article 166. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – The Constitutional Court is a independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding, I hope for the MPs, especially those who have adopted this Constitution. I wasn't in that position, but for me, this is a binding, special decision of the Constitutional Court. We've mostly heard about sharing here, very little about creation. I repeat that pensions, as well as salaries, are earned and we are obliged to earn not only our salaries, but also the decent pensions of a generation that has retired. Why is pension related to GDP? If GDP rises 4.5%, that means, Mr. Minister, that we have earned more than a billion and 800 this year than the previous year. If pensions participate with 10%, if I'm not mistaken, in GDP something more, it means the new 180m euros for pensioners and therefore the weight should be thrown at creation, not division. I have a feeling that some MPs, as if they were taking liquid out of some bowl, some would just take and give nothing and it could take a certain time and then when you take the rolls everything, there's nothing left at the end of it. So we also need to take care of creation. This GDP is what we peasants experience – each has little participation in a cake. GDP is one big cake. Someone sows, someone sows, someone reaps, and then someone sows it, someone mixes the dough, someone bakes it, and when we all participate together, then we need to make as much as possible, and when we do, then each of us can share more. If we sow more, we shave more, we grind more, we mix more, we bake more, we'll all be satisfied, and that's why the weight is also on pensions. It's supposed to be a creation, not just a division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65719	I thank my colleague Rističević. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65720	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30. The draft law on PIO and this amendment was not adopted by the Government for formal reasons. According to the Government's argument, the procedure, i.e. if it is initiated on official duty or upon request, must bear the same date, but so be it. However, it is not the biggest problem with this member, nor with this law. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the biggest problem with pensions is that pensions are small, their amount is low and that citizens, or the users of these pensions, cannot live on them. In fact, here we have heard from many colleagues from the ruling majority that pensions are not a reduction in the large number of pensioners, millions and 300 000 have not had the opportunity to reduce their pensions, and that is certainly fine, and that is all to praise, but all these pensioners, millions and 300 thousand pensioners who are not reduced pensions fall under this category of people who can't live on pension. That's the biggest problem. Of course, we can't just accuse this government of all of this. It's an inherited problem. There are more factors that affect that, above all, the age structure. Unfortunately, every day on average, Serbia is growing older and older and a large number of young populations are going abroad, but that is why you should not boast that you have increased pensions so much because the largest number of people still cannot live. They used to be happier times when it could. Unfortunately, it's not possible now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65721	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Something that's been heard here more than once today, I have to repeat, and I'm saying that I don't share the opinion of those who, for fiscal consolidation measures, had to enter into someone's acquired right, which is pensions. They may have taken the advice of their European advisers, and we think there were other options. You have in the Parliament the majority, you could vote lex specialis, you could vote that Serbia is in the Middle East, you could calm that money down from tycoons, NGOs agencies and similar parasites on our people's backs. I would say that our pension system, although in a few stabilised, is still very vulnerable and the most important issue for the government – how to make a stable and long-term sustainable system? However, it is not clear what measures will be taken to implement this system. We see only indications here, and we need a vision of the country's further development, of investment, of new employment, which will improve the key relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners. We are closer to believing that there are still more enigms on this plan than you claim to have put the system on sound ground. Often mentioned in the public Swiss model, we were thought to have been radicalized only by the accounting technique. Switzerland's beautiful sounds like a rich and above-average stable country and this model is working with them, and whether our economic climate will fit for this pelzer remains to be seen, and whether and how this Swiss mechanism will also be realized on our Serbian economic drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65723	Thank you, colleague Boyic. Comrade Mircic, you do not have the opportunity to speak according to this amendment, since you have submitted in the same text from the same parliamentary group, you and your colleague Bojic, so counterpart Bojic took advantage of this right. Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65724	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected pensioners and you who will be healthy in the future, we want to tell you at the end of this debate on amendments to the Law on PIO that the SRS will continue its political fight, in particular to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, but also to improve the standards of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For us Serbian radicals, it is absolutely unacceptable that the lowest pension and lowest wage, popularly called the minimum wage, are below the level of the lowest average basket in the Republic of Serbia. According to statistics today, it is the amount of 37,000 dinars. We insist that the lowest pensions and the lowest wages must be 37,000 dinars. This is no populist story, we have been talking for 20 days, since the debate on the budget started and before that, to representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which these funds can be provided. We talked about poor budget spending at the expense of workers and pensioners, we said that various NGOs are being paid, and then we think about those who are working against the interest of the Serbian state, we said that the funds are being spent non-intentionally, for example 300m euros in Bechtel, on the name of building part of the highway from Cačka to Pojat, we talked about how in advance, here I will end soon, that we are taking credits that we won't actually need, and on such loans we have to pay interest regardless of what we haven't started to spend and there are many opportunities hidden in the various hidden apropriations in the budget that we would turn, i.e. So once again I repeat and finish, the lowest salary and the lowest pension should not be below 37,000 dinars, which is the lowest amount of the consumer basket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65725	Thank you. National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is considered an amendment in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become part of the bill. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65726	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed citizens of pensioners, in the proposed article 34 after Article 124a, the name of Glava Xa is added - the compensation of the funeral costs of Article 124b, which regulates the compensation of funeral expenses, without the defined amount of those same costs. As a result, we have proposed to amend Article 124b in paragraph 1. so that – the Fund will pay to the person who incurred the cost of the funeral of the beneficiaries of the pension, the compensation of the funeral expenses of one and a half of the average pensions in the Fund in the previous quarter, as compared to the date of death of the beneficiary, with the reason that in the text of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the proposed new member, it is necessary to maintain the precise definition of the amount of the funeral expenses contained in Article 75 of the currently applicable legal text. In fact, not knowing the amount of compensation for funeral expenses leaves room for equal recognition of an account of 30,000 dinars, but I'm also afraid of an account of 300,000 dinars. So that there is no deviation, and let me express my suspicion and prevent possible manipulations. Please consider whether this proposed amendment can be an integral part of the law. Finally, all of these amendments to the PUPS once again have been made in co-operation with the Union of Pensioners of Serbia, submitted in order to preserve and improve the standards of pensioners, while respecting the financial opportunities of our government and the strong support that pensioners provide for further economic growth in our country. All of this with a ultimate goal for an all-inclusive better standard and a better life for all of our citizens. Once again, please, Mr. Minister, your team and our government to consider these amendments that I have spoken of. If it is not possible to do so now, then I ask you to install the same proposals in the legal framework in the time ahead, and apply them. The PUPS Group will thank you very much for that. We support and understand all your solutions, but understand our efforts and our struggle for a better life for our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65727	Thank you. National MP Natasa Sp, Jovanovic, submitted to the 38th amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65728	If the PIO Fund is not agreed on the basis of a potentially higher payment until a final pension solution has been established, the pensioner shall be obliged to recover that higher amount from one third of the pension. We have suggested that it be one-fifth of it, but you really try, gentlemen of the Fund and you of the Ministry, act like it's not happening, except, I say, in exceptional cases, because last year about 19,700 solutions were issued for new pensioners and it's about 5% of it, and that's really a lot, they got these temporary solutions and that later people don't get into trouble. Mr. Minister, I mentioned it once when we talked, but I want to make it public now, the citizens of Serbia living in Malta and working there for many years, on their return to Serbia, have a big problem with achieving the right to recognise that internship they earned in that country. That's a big problem. There are even a few tens of thousands of our countrymen, who, coming to Serbia, have spent five, 10 and more years and worked there, have no possibility because there is still no bilateral agreement with the country to be recognised by automation. The Serbian government has to find a solution because the problems are really big, because someone who's worked here for 10, 20, 30 years, so for the last 10 years, he's been working on Malta, someone that Gilas and his yellow bull's been forced out of work through robbery privatisation, had to go there to get along, to school children. There are a lot of intellectuals, and now that they're back in Serbia, they can't achieve the right to retire by automaticity, because they have a problem recognising the internship. In the name of these people who have spoken to the MPs individually, that has been said to the public, many articles in the papers, and they have made their own statements about it, I really ask you to do something as soon as possible to make an agreement. You told me, and that's certainly true, that they, or we, can't right now, I didn't quite get it right, we have a problem with bilingualism, or not implementing their solution into Serbian. Give way to get over it somehow, because many of them, and now they're back in the country, would apply for retirement, but they can't for that procedural reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65729	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65730	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65731	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for our viewers, those who boycott the work of the National Assembly, for Gilas's and Solak's business, have been costing us a total of six thousand pensions for a year. So six thousand pensions could have been paid for the money these yellow unfortunates who boycott the work of the National Assembly are boycotting that job they got citizens to trust. Let's say each of them will have three percent of their pensions in this year's time, undeservedly earned. So what other earners they lay down get. Let's say, Goran Jesic, he's gone, if you remember three years and 10% of his pension that won't be small, and some people don't know who he is, it's an Indjia MP, Goran Jesic. The man who brought the chair from this congregation broke one foot into India and on October 5th we celebrate as the day of the sacred foot in India because it enlightened us. So he's gonna get 10% of his pensions on the continuum of this drone. To conclude, peasant pensions should be increased, pensions should be increased at all, but all of this should be paid off from that cake we call a gross domestic product. You're free to get rights if you don't have them. If you have that GDP and it's growing and it's growing, then we have something to share. If that cake goes down, then the pensioners and all of us will have less. That's why everyone from their corners, everyone in their jobs, should put forth effort, knowledge and energy so that we can all together, together with the pensioners, make money and share what we've earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65732	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction has adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the next item on the agenda. You have received an amendment, which was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević, on the proposal for a law on the suspension of the validity of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent income from the users of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like the reform of the pay grade to be done as soon as possible. It is unacceptable for me to continue to pay in the public sector of certain officials, certain officials we appoint and choose to be 4.5 times the salary of the President of the Republic, of the Prime Minister's salary, of ministers' salaries in the Government and of the salaries of MPs. It's just not right, and I'm not saying that we have 400, 500,000 dinars like some of the ones we're choosing here, we're setting up, we're calling, I'm saying we've got at least the same pay, that's to get their wages in line with our salary and the profits that we're getting here. One more thing, I am willing to support myself because of the lack of the work of a number of MPs, the apparent lack of work of a long-term and long-term boycott, so that even the salaries of MPs are valued on the basis of work and time spent in the National Assembly if not at the National Assembly Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65734	Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the next item on the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65735	The law on corporate tax changes 16 or 17 times, and it is one of those laws that goes with the Budget Law, but when you see this argument where the government wrote the reasons for the adoption of this law, then you really wonder how that tax on the profit of legal persons has functioned so far, because it turns out that there's a lot of things that you're doing because you're only doing it now, and that's how you wrote it yourself. You say that the content and objectives to be achieved by adopting this law are to create conditions for the implementation of a 2013 action plan, some economic co-operation and development organisation. As it worked in 2013, we don't know. Then I don't know how to comply with a law that regulates the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs. As far as we've been informed from the public, the Swiss franc problem has been solved. How she taxed the profits of legal persons if only now through this law, specifically through this article, which I have changed a little technically arranged predicts. Of course, we can't remember a bad law here where you made the state of Serbia pay serious funds in the name of those loans that the citizens had concluded in the Swiss francs, and we still claim that the entire damage suffered by those citizens had to go to the bank's burden because the banks were enormously rich and still rich, of course, because in Serbia they were very expensive loans. Furthermore, you say again that you are adopting this law in order to eliminate double taxation of resident taxpayers who are also active abroad by recognising the right to tax credit. So again, the law that already exists, as well as encouraging investment in investment funds, again the law that already exists. You have a gap - you pass one law or more laws, and some law that needs certain things under those laws to regulate, you bring years or months later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65736	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65737	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on corporate tax, where I asked for a new item 3 to be added after Article 2. The purpose of this amendment is to define in a better and more precise way the subject matter of this law. In fact, it is a matter from which Serbia's budget is to the greatest extent possible, and therefore there should be no gaps here. But regardless, the SRS believes that there is always room for certain taxes, certain taxes, to be reduced, especially in that section that applies to our poorer citizens. And if there was room for that, we've heard it many times from this room. We have huge redundancies from Serbia's budget for various NGOs, for even NGOs that work directly against both this state and against this government and against the institutions of the Serbian state. So, there is a need to reduce these NGOs and other institutions, in order to reduce taxes, imposes, contributions and everything else. Of course, the famous Bechtel affair. You see, on the one hand, the government is saving wherever possible, and on the other hand, through the Ministry of Infrastructure, whose head is Zorana Mihajlovic, and the hand and hat are divided, i.e. by means of contracts that harm the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65738	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65739	Thank you. Apparently, for Gjorget Vukadinovic, better known as Djoku Vlaha, he's still early, so he hasn't woken up. But there's time, so from 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 hours, so little he comes to the congregation, just like that to see what he's doing. So this is about tax credit for the conversion of Swiss francs. Some of the things that have been happening are very interesting about that. For example, Professor Danica Popovic of the Faculty of Economics is famous for always supporting banks. Gro her texts, which is the teacher who signed over the late colleague, translation work from cover to cover, Danica Popovic, therefore, plagiarizer. But it doesn't matter. Because students forget to visit the doctorate, or Faculty of Economics, and that the conditions to check her translation work, where she prescribed her late colleague Babic, the translation work, and for that, according to some of my sources, she received a million and 400 thousand dinars. I think somewhere on the television channel, student Jaksic is doing it and how he proved it and showed it, everything she wrote. It was the easiest thing for him to show what she hadn't written in that textbook. So, the lady is very interesting. She asked that the Swiss francs, that everyone who was in charge of the loans, have to return it to the Swiss francs. What's interesting? That she somehow made 36,000 Swiss francs and bought an apartment for cash. So 365 thousand francs, one of the professors of economics. I didn't know teachers were so rich people, they could suddenly cough up 365 thousand Swiss francs. And in return, look at the wonders! She argued that all those who had borrowed credit in Switzerland had to pay back that debt in full, which was almost impossible for them. She did it all the way up to this agreement recently, and then she rebelled, but she never said where 365 Swiss francs came from, and the Anti-Corruption Agency, to prevent corruption, doesn't deal with teachers, even though they receive salaries from the same public source where we're getting from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65740	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65741	The corporate income tax is one of the more important public revenues of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia creates conditions for a better economic environment, and this should be, by definition of the state, by the Constitution, so. However, it is noticeable for us, Serbian Radicals, that since 2000 and beyond all regimes, all authorities have somehow taken more care of foreign business entities than domestic ones. And right now we can hear the answer - well, in Serbia, all registered faces, domestic faces, etc. But capital, founding capital, it's clear that it's some foreign, or whatever you say, direct investors. In particular, these foreign banks were favoured, which were only profit-making, and in return, other than expensive discounts of their funds, provided nothing else for the state of Serbia. We believe that practice should be interrupted. Well, that's why we suggested, first of all, that banks are put in a more favourable position here, and we suggest that, as a tax loan, the highest of 2% can be transferred to banks to make use of at some later point if there is not enough need at that point for using these funds. If banks were to settle their obligations regularly, if other business entities were to settle their obligations on a regular basis, and not to display losses, both simulated and false losses, then certainly business entities whose headquarters is and whose founding capital is originating here in Serbia would be in a much better and more favourable position and then employees would have higher salaries and in the field of health, in the area of security, scholarships, everything could be more, and imagine 300m euros, which would be spent more on building the Moravian Corridor, but immediately to say that we are to build this corridor, how much pension or how much pensions could be increased, or minimal personal income, which are not even close to the lowest consumer basket.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65742	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65743	When an amendment to the Double Tax Act has been made, it is precisely defined which is the part that legal persons should not pay if the tax is paid abroad and can be used as a tax credit. However, there has been a problem in practice since the change has been going on for a year. On the very submission of the application of many accountants, even those with decades of experience are not the rules that the Ministry of Finance has understood in a legal way, and therefore, many are late in exercising their right. I want this opportunity, since it fits perfectly into this topic, and the problem that has a large number of businessmen in our country, to re-launch the issue of delaying VAT vomiting. That's what my colleague Mircic is always talking about at the Finance Committee, he talked about here, and then when you do a quarterly analysis of the situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget, of course this expensive VAT that you've charged to show up, and the delays are unwarrantedly large. In the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in the Law on Vulnerabilities of VAT you draw the possibility, I think there is a member of 320 and some of these laws, that the tax inspection check whether this legal entity for a reason and established submitted a request for VAT refund. I don't know and it's established, we didn't even do that analysis, because we're not all available to us, but these World Bank mentors of yours, who you're blindly listening to, they've been doing an analysis and it's proven that over 46% of the delay in VAT vomiting is because someone deliberately obstructed it in the IRS. Who? This someone you gave the warrant to - keep that money, because we need it for that, and to show us right then that we have it in the budget. It was clearly shown through the tax inspection that 328, I believe, is the correct information, the solutions were issued that there was an unfounded request for VAT refund. What about everyone else who's late, who can't use their money? Why don't you explain why you're not paying off that money?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65744	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65745	What is interesting to the public, is that the emphasis in this Amendment on amendments and additions to the Law is placed on the reliefs for banks, commercial banks, especially for that part of the loan that is in the Swiss francs and where the state, in order to help citizens, has in some way made it easier. However, for incomprehensible reasons, we are going to make the most of it to the banks. Banks benefit, banks operate according to clearly proper principles, banks make money anyway. Not to spread the story now to the period when they convinced the citizens that the Swiss francs are in debt, but here the state is making an additional concession to the commercial banks, thinking that this way the banks will be willing to continue to operate according to some of the rules that the Central Bank has and ultimately and the law by which they should function. Banks are foreign, no matter how much you convince us they're domestic banks, and they come from abroad. They make their profits, their profits in a very, very strange way. No one can explain how you can't stop and get in the way of those speculations that you're serving. The profits are being drawn out, transferred to the headquarters of these banks, and here they are still working on deposit funds from depositors who are, not only the economy, but also citizens with their savings. According to us, Serbian radicals, although some concession was intended to help citizens, should not have gone this far in "pity" when it comes to commercial banks. Commercial banks use their speculations, their moves, how they do it on this market, and how they collect huge profits. The least of this benefits Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65746	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65747	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the SRS refers to Article 1 which is changed and read - In the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of goods, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", there are now many numbers, so that I do not read them, mostly in the years, ranging from 2001 to 2018, in Article 5 of Section 1 of Section 6 after the word "electric" is added to the word "electrical" and the word "electric" is added, if one of the power plants, etc. hybrid vehicles’. We welcome the introduction of tax relief for many categories, as well as for vehicles with one of the power plants, so to speak. ‘Hybrid vehicles’, which is the subject of my amendment. As far as guns are concerned, it's a special story and an open topic. As for his taxation, it is necessary to see if it is passion, love of arms. If it's about passion, she pays a lot of money everywhere in the world. When exempting from taxation of passive registered weapons, a lot of logical questions are raised – is the weapon bought in the market, what is its price, is it cheap? Why are public calls for the arms to be returned and handed over to the police, as well as how many weapons are available with Serbian citizens? We Serbs have one traditional tendency and love for weapons. Maybe it dates back to a long time ago when we've fought a lot of wars, and I'm going to illustrate that to you with one example. The greatest Russian poet of the 19th century, Aleksandar Sergeyjevic Pushkin, spoke of Serbs as one small and brave people who loves weapons, so he dedicated a song to the daughter of Karadjordje, where he spoke of a girl of a few years who was not playing with rags and dolls, who held arms. Perhaps in this traditional love we can consider, we can also see the purpose of remaining a habit and when the need to carry and handle weapons ceased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65748	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Ensigned Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65749	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on the use, keeping and carrying of goods. The government has not, of course, accepted this amendment, but is therefore boasting that it has adopted one provision, as the law stipulates that, from now on, when a vehicle is registered, it can all be paid into one account, and then from that account, so those in charge will be distributed in a certain amount to certain accounts. Principleally, it's not bad, although most people have done it up until now, but not directly in this way, but through agencies that do, through insurance companies. That's not the point. The SRS believes that taxes are still, no matter what, especially those charges relating to the largest number of Serbian citizens, mean the broadst layers of society, that these fees are still inappropriate to our standard and that they should be reduced to the part where possible. We always say there's room for something like that. There's a space, we see that ever since the public record scene, public executioners have been on the scene that taxes have been increased multiplely. Why is that? There were a lot of words, right here in this session today, a relative called me, his last name is the same as me, it doesn't matter, if it matters to you, and his company is doing some extra job classification, and now they need them, there's a danger that some of them will probably lose their jobs and everything else, and now they're asking them to stab them, to deliver all the documentation they can to stab them. Imagine, just for an overa degree, a testimony, it's about a man who has a fourth degree of professional training, he needs three thousand to pay at a notary. It's 10% of his salary, and we think it's really something that's not appropriate, absolutely, to this country or to these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65750	The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65751	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the proposal to add, after Article 15a, Article 15b, which reads - the tax on the use of the vessel is not paid on vessels for which the taxpayer is an IAP, on the grounds that the amendment in a better and more precise manner defines the subject of this law. We have seen that this same provision applies, as my esteemed colleague Bojic said, when it comes to power plants, or hybrids. When it comes to weapons, the thing is quite different, and he's with the citizens, not to say much, but quite certainly, even too much. Who knows how many individuals there are with two or more weapons. What are the effects in relation to the state of security and are all possible negative effects in the event of the sale or return of the registered weapon being removed? There's no valid argument for this. Weapons are specific, often dangerous, and sometimes tragic, because if someone intends to deprive someone of their lives, it doesn't matter whether the weapon is registered or not. Therefore, it cannot be argued that the exemption from taxation of passive registered weapons contributes to the taxation of the relatively economic power of the obligor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65752	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65753	When the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods is said above all to think about holding and carrying weapons. Of course, there are other good ones, but this particular amendment that we have submitted to Article 4 is precisely about holding and carrying weapons, or weapons. A large number of objections and objections from Serbian citizens who have come to arms in various ways, from shopping, to gifts, to trophy gifts, which increasingly point out that taxes, i.e. taxes on holding and carrying weapons, are large. That should have been done, probably once, some analysis, and since we're doing well, because we have more money, or money than ever, we should think, not maybe for some gun-holders, but for some, we should definitely do that. How and in what way, perhaps the commission, which would be composed of members of the MUP and the tax administration, could give the best proposal for a solution to the problem. Furthermore, a problem arises in practice, where arms are taken away and it takes up to 10 years, and the owners and holders of the armed list are obliged, when it comes to the tax administration, when they cut that tax, are obliged to pay, because they pay on the basis of the armed list, rather than on the basis of possession. These are the things that should be resolved, to meet the citizens of Serbia who, for some reason, want to have weapons, because they have a gift or in some other way came to them, so they may be emotionally bound to it. That should be solved in a fairer and fairer way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65754	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65755	The problem was with a large number of Serbian Hunters' Associations, some have marked, such as the Stragarets' Association in the Forest, a decades-long existence, and all have asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to make one law that will define exactly what their trophy weapons are, what they have, and no longer in use, and it is registered that they do not have to pay each of those weapons the prescribed tax. But, Mr. Minister, there are some problems when these hunters are involved. On the other hand, in Serbia, you have a criminal count on every corner, illegal arms flows. Even the minister himself has repeatedly pleaded about it – we cut this one, that channel, but the problem is that those who have an orderly license face certain problems. In the old mountain, in the village, the famous village of Temska and the settlement of Rakita, there was a disturbance of hunters who for many years were members of the hunter's association from that beautiful Serbian mountain and from pure peace came a police patrol, which was recently taken from them. They say, "You are dangerous; neither do they know for what reason. Nor do they deal with perjury, people really know in this area that they are also famous hunters, but they bother someone because they are activists of the association "Let's Defend the Rivers of the Old Mountain". Now I can really expect that certain Peric, who has set up the entire Milutin Jeličić Yutki affair, will begin to take away, that is, his influence, or he is supposed to have it, to order hunters from that area under the Kopalnik to take away the guns. Please make a single order in this area. Here, look at any article on these Internet portals, where you talk about how many legal weapons there are and down there, to see that anyone commenting on it will say that it's a total mess and that people who are really, that's why we submitted this amendment not on the day of the weapons registration, but on the day of the application that it should be paid, because that's probably fairer. (President: Bringing the end. ) The weapon is registered the moment it is produced in the factory, that is, when it comes to where it is being sold, and only when someone gets permission to carry that weapon, to hold a weapon, then they have to file a request and report it, and you put it here by automaticity when a weapon is registered. What does that mean? Every weapon has its own number, but it doesn't have its owner yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65756	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65757	This is just about the SRS proposal to specify this Article 8th amendment and the addition of the law, which is when it comes to the seized armed list on the collector's and other weapons, here in the bill, it is said – it refers only to the seized weapon, and we say it refers to the correcting and keeping and carrying arms together with the weapon. So, when it's taken away temporarily or otherwise, we're just here saying that a license along with a weapon is taken away. And here, the promoter says only that the license is withdrawn. What is very important is that there is further debate here in the law about the situation where a tax on the use of weapons is paid and if that weapon is taken away during the year, then the law is thinking about how the rest of the year will be treated when it comes to the financial resources given, the legislator, or the proposer here, says it would be a surplus payment. And that's quite an example for you and an opportunity to say. You're here thinking about whether or not it's going to be treated like an extra payment or something else, and when it comes to VAT, it's a pain in the ass. And there's people having big problems, where the funds are in a much bigger amount than they are here in particular. So, it would be about too much or too much to add to some of the things that are much smaller in financial terms, not marginal, compared to what is crucial and important for the functioning of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65758	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65759	When I talk about these purely formal and mandatory amendments to the law on various taxes, it is good to mention through this debate and how the tax administration works. I'm going to paint it like this today on a case of a gentleman from Nis, who, fortunately, is a pedantic gentleman, so he's been keeping records and accounts for decades. Now watch how the income management works, and if that man hadn't had the bills today, we'd already have a lot of executioners at his door. In September 2015, he received a warning that he had not paid taxes for 2006, follow, please, nine years and five years is a period of limitations. He then took a receipt, and on December 3rd of this year, whether it was yesterday, when it was, yes, yesterday, he received a reply from the income management asking him to bring the original 2006 receipts, a receipt that he paid the tax. Are you even able to track this madness that's happening in the income management? The statute of limitations in this case is five years old. It's been a long time since the 2006 debt. General obsolescence is ten years old. So, it came in 2016, and three years later, it's looking for the income management of the original payment card that someone paid the tax in 2006, 13 years later. This is really something that's amazing, and this way, among other things, they set up jobs for public executioners. Whoever doesn't bring in the original account 10, 12, 13 years old, he'll have the perpetrators at his door, because God has no proof that 12 years ago he paid a tax. Unbelievable, but it happens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65760	The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65761	Thank you, Chairman. About the weapons, and just today when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic in Sochia with Russian President Vladimir Putin, when Russian President Vladimir Vukic was further strengthened by Russia and Serbia's co-operation, when the president gave the Russian president an icon of Turning the Lord, and Russian President Aleksandar Vukic gave the original rifle to King Milan Obrenovic, supporters of Boška Obradovic had one gift, a new gift for Alexander Vukic on their Facebook profile. Mladjan Radjenovic wrote -- there was another Alexander who led Serbia a little over a hundred years ago, and he ended up as this "g" will end, and then in comments below, and everything on the subject of migrants, so he hung up a video where the president commented on migrants, and then under it he wrote "Mladjen Radenovic" -- under urgent "g" to kill. So NIN didn't mean when he was putting on that target, they didn't, we all got it wrong, we all have the wrong angle of looking, and only a few people, obviously Gilas and the team, have the right angle of looking, as many of them as they have voices. So many of them have a real angle of view. We all misread the target, so they said they removed the target from the cover of the NIN, but it runs faster on the cover of "Today". Wherever that target ends, they move it, they hide it, it's obviously in their heads. Here's what they're doing -- they're creating an atmosphere that's perfectly normal to pick up one by one and say that the president of Serbia needs to be shot. On the subject of weapons, who has all weapons, serious people sow hate, serious people in terms of capital sowing hate. What do you need? You have a weapon, it needs a target. Who's the target here since the last days? When they can't hit the censorship, let's make an atmosphere for someone to hit Alexander Wolfie. I'm asking the authorities to respond. This is more than a serious situation. So, as a rule, at a certain interval, someone who threatens, more specifically who calls for the murder of Serbian President at a time, they say, dictatorship, and at a time of democracy, there was a situation that Ranko Panic, because he wanted to walk and show his dissatisfaction, the last thing he saw in his life, saw a police boot. At the time of dictatorship, as they call it, those who walk can't see a cop on the street, but they can draw a target, can say Obradovic's supporters that when they come to power, migrants should settle in our houses to rape mothers and daughters members of the SNS. After all, they're surprised they can't cross the census. This is very serious. There are no political issues here. We must defend decent Serbia here, and that is the task of all of us. I ask that we rise up in one piece and be united, and that is in the defence of decent Serbia. The disaster is that someone, too, says... It is unacceptable for the NIN front page to be that way in a country where the prime minister's murder has already taken place. What if it wasn't for the prime minister's murder? Would that be acceptable? So it would be permissible until the prime minister's murder occurs. They're sick, and they insult us all, and they say we misread it. Here, now we don't understand what the word "shut" means. Let that be their answer, to help them. They say - Alexander Vukic needs to be shot urgently, and we will all, here, pretend not to understand what the word means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65762	Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law amending the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for public media services. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic, with correction, and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65763	In the principle debate, we kind of touched these topics, which is paying a fee for public media service, where this fee is increasing from 200 to 255 dinars. We're essentially against the way this tax is paid. This fee continues to be paid with an electricity bill over a subscription to the count, and in order to draw attention to the public, we cartooned things and said – how long will Serbia pay public service by including a ring on an electric stove to cook its own coffee immediately has to pay the public service subscription, and there is no TV? It's a completely absurd situation. There is something much bigger than this trivial reason, which is the work itself and the way public service works and functions. When I say public services, it's the Radio Television of Serbia and the Radio Television of Vojvodina that are financed in this way. When you look at what the programme is, what editorial policy is, what is the relationship of the most responsible people, then we are almost convinced that most of Serbia is against this kind of payment. This is a paying tax under the sea. Watched your RTS and TV or didn't watch you have to pay. The program is a disaster. Here, let's say I take an example of what you're doing. It's a disaster, it's a circus. Reality, it's nothing. The "single" is negligible compared to that. It may have been a good idea at one time, maybe it used to be, but it doesn't look like anything right now. It does not look like a reason why it is not respected at the end of the day and the will of the Serbian citizens. There are parties in parliament, party representatives who are on the basis of voter will, Serbian citizens present here, and there is no such thing in the Public Service. There must be no "s" from the SRS on TV. Is that normal? They also pay those who voted for both the Radicals and the Progressive Party and other parties, and everyone wants to see the representatives of their political options, if that's what we're looking at. No, it's a will, and in doing so, it's mandatory with an electricity bill that you pay 255 dinars. Where's that? There's nowhere to go. This government, this furniture stood firm in the positions that such a way of paying a fee should be abolished, in order to achieve it in some other way. In the end, why not respect most of the work and competition, so let's see how much this quality public service programme looks at and how much other TV is watching? For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party proposes to delete this Article 1st and height and manner, primarily the way in which it is paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65764	Thank you, colleague Mircic. On the amendment of my colleague Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65765	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, there are a lot of arguments, when the editorial policy is criticised, when management is criticised, and that is where we can agree or disagree. The method of payment is always problematic when something happened to us, which, fortunately, some other republics, did not happen at the break-up of the SFRY, did not cancel the fee, did not cancel the pay for the radio and somehow in the old days the radio-television was quite normal, paying by phone, electricity and everything else. At one point, we abolished the payment, so we returned it, so we raised it to 500 dinars, so we cut it down. Now from 220 proposals to raise taxes to 255, but of course the budget allocated to public services is reduced by a billion and a half dinar. One reason is that the building was completed on Mishenluk i.e. TV will soon take over its building, i.e. She had one broadcast last week from a new address. The public service RTS records good results. By paying taxes and reducing budget cuts, we are actually fighting for the independence of editorial policy and for the independence of the Public Service. I would agree that as far as information is concerned, there are often dissatisfactions, but it's not just the public service. We need to know what all public service is. Public service is the guardian of national goods. Public service is spreading culture, growing language, keeping huge phototheques, videos. Serbia's public service, one and the other, experienced that no one else was -- bombing, destruction, and then October 5th was that famous revolution, with exceptional intellectual sizes like Joe's baggerist and these others. They're about to kill the director of television. Therefore, we need public service. Commercial televisions, first of all, are facing funds to earn money. Only through the Public Service can we accomplish all these good things. In the end, if there wasn't a Public Service, there wouldn't be any of this session, or the session's transmission, because probably commercial television wouldn't want to do it. Therefore, I invite you to consider and support the Public Service. Public service needs Serbia. With the circumstances these years, as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, I was a member of an association dealing with the development of public services in the Western Balkans. The Western Balkans are all those countries that are not in the EU and we have had opportunities to see all other public services. I can tell you that Serbia's public service is far ahead of all others, that it is still the most watched television in this part, while in these other countries, commercial programs have long taken over every role over public services. Can you do better? I'm sure it is. Management's replaceable. We can always count on it, but please take care of the importance of the Public Service – the culture of dialogue, the repair of the culture of dialogue. After all, we ourselves in front of the citizens are who we are. Perhaps that is why many of us are chosen just because of the public service that conveys everything we do. It's kind of our control, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65766	I thank my colleague Krlic. Comrade Mircic, do you want a replica of my colleague Krlić's presentation? Milorad Mircic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65767	Dear colleague, there's a clear view of us Serbian radicals here. The way you pay is controversial. With the electricity bill, that's what it's all about. There's another way. There is, after all, why run away from it, to finance from the budget. You don't have to run from it. If we make some systems here so that both in which way and what should be financed when it comes to public service, then we'll also have to figure out how to pay, at the level of payment, some criteria, and let's say that those who have a stove with a ceramic plate that they pay half of this because they save more, that those who have an old operating system of electric stoves, especially ovens that pay maybe 15% extra at this price. What's this all about? We all know what the role of the Public Service is, but we also see what the Public Service is. We have an absolutely incredible situation. We have a TV-capital building that has spent a large amount of money, a huge amount of money, and the decision remains that this TV is the media promoter of the European Vojvodina. On a proposal from Serbian radicals to think, not to enter such an investment that will cost the budget, this country has an empty space. The Sports and Business Centre of Novi Sad, which has functionally everything to function as a Public Service. There's space, there's infrastructure, there's everything. It's still been accessed. Now what are we to explain to those who include, say, the ring, to say -- you know, it's a future European Vojvodina, and put a little bit more on those stoves to make this service called RTV work as best as possible. There must be clear rules there. If it works, then the money needs to be treated rationally, not to invest huge money in a new facility, in a capital building by making it a monument to someone tomorrow, and yet this decision, colleague Martinovic, knows well that it is a promoter, a media European Vojvodina. (President: I thank my colleague Mircic. That's what Bozidar Djelic signed back then. We have to decide something, or we'll pay the European Vojvodina or we'll do it in a more rational way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65768	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on the line, MP Mirko Krlić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65769	Just the rationality you're talking about has contributed to this solution being over the electricity bill. Special printing of accounts, distribution of only these accounts would only increase costs. But we can argue on how to charge. However, what you are wrong with, the law requires, in the end, and all globally, European standards that as little public services as possible not be financed from the budget at all. Funding from the budget is a real, direct influence of the one in power, on public service. Perhaps at this point we would prefer that the public service be fully financed from the budget, so that we can dictate, as someone who controls power. But SNS policy is that every year we reduce budget funding and that the public service is independent in its financing. It's the only way he'll be independent of the program and everything else. I'm sorry that we're getting regular reports, and I hope they're getting members of the Committee on Culture and Information from the SRS so you can see regular reports, three-month reports and the RV of Vojvodina. their new programming scheme, their definition, their mission, their vision. I agree with you that it is a free Vojvodina and that there have been many different stories, which in its time of those years, long ago when someone imagined a republic and strengthened the province's organs, really strengthened that television in that direction. I don't think she's doing it today, with all the criticism we can make, and I can't agree with you at all. I can only tell you that on November 12th, a public hearing was held on how to improve the electoral process and how to reduce discrimination in media space in future elections. All political parties were invited. About 18 political parties were reported with their two representatives, and representatives of REM, representatives of international organisations, and MPs, the Committee, as well as all media, were invited, even those media who do not have a national frequency, which broadcast a television programme. Directors and editors-in-chiefs were invited. To my great, yet here I may give you the right to my great sorrow and duty to inform both the public and the MPs of this, only the directors of the public service have not responded. I think it's a little disrespect for the Assembly, and at this point I want to give this criticism to all the MPs, because I don't know what was the most important place and what was more important than being in the National Assembly, to be in front of the national representatives, which this people they need now to pay a tax, gave support. But again, it's not management that makes us need to think about public service. It is an exceptional number of people, an exceptional number of qualities and extremely social, a national treasure that stands in public service, in PGP, Radio Belgrade, in RTV – Vojvodina, etc. As a result, it certainly supports the public service at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65770	The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65771	Well, what's quite clear is that no one thinks 100% of the budget should be financed by public services. But what's important for the state, for society, it's supposed to contain budget funding and no one's against it. When it comes to TV Vojvodina, real needs are only due to national communities and minorities living in the area, I am concentrated because they are most in the Vojvodina area, in large numbers. And that's the programme, the programming scheme for informing members of national communities, or national minorities. Do you realize that Serbia is 6.5 million people, seven. In some real exchanges, it's a mediocre city in some world scales. We have two services here. Three, I'm sorry, thank you very much colleagues, three repairs. I'm sorry, I dropped it on purpose, so we've got three repairs. There's a justification for why these two, but that's the RTV of Vojvodina and RTS, but there's no justification for such investments. Secondly, fellow esteemed, you forget that this goes to the collection bill for electricity. When you pay the electricity, you come to pay the electricity bill, you are charged a public service subscription. It could be in the same envelope with an electricity bill, but especially to be paid. What would one who doesn't have a TV pay for, one who doesn't use those services? Where are you going to pay for services you don't use? You have to pay for the electricity. Secondly, in that account, if you haven't been paying attention, there's something that's expressed as a percentage cost at the total cost, so that's something that's illogical. Here only from earlier ideas were to increase the participation of budget funds, was the idea that this was special, and here is the complete logic of things, to go in the extreme case, but as a special paper, a special account in the right sense of words and to be paid in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65772	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on the line, MP Mirko Krlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65773	Just for a little while. I'd like to hear that suggestion about how to pay a tax otherwise. It would be a good idea to have these proposals directly and we can make a full debate about it, but it turns out that the most effective charge is this and we keep track of the year-to-year increase in charge, which is very important. I think he said something about Mr. Komlensky in his debate in principle. But I'd say something. I can't believe that you're not and that you're not in favour of restoring what NATO has done with the bombing. It's broken down the RV of the Duke, destroyed that space, destroyed the technique. There's a college in Novi Sad. The Faculty of Philosophy teaches journalism. Every year dozens of students graduate from the university. They should have their jobs, they should do information. Information is very important. Technology's progressing, we can't end up in some buildings. Right now, I think Vojvodina television is working on several addresses. I think it's an honor and pride to have a real public service in Vojvodina, which has its own tradition, precisely because of what you said. Because of national minorities if nothing else. It is very important that national minorities have programs in their own languages. Of course it's not commercial, it can't make a profit, but it contributes to the democratisation of our society, the good relations with our neighbours and everything else that we can really be proud of right now. So, once again, I want to get the RV of Vojvodina to move into the new building completely, it's partly moved in, and I congratulate you on the first broadcast of the TV diary from the new address.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65774	I thank my colleague Krlic. Mr. Komlenski and Mr. Mircic have the right to reply. We respect the opposition, first my colleague Mircic, then my colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65775	It's a rare opportunity to work and live in such a pleasure. My colleague Krlić, you call it something that tradition is and you say it full of mouths, and you know it was a monument to the future independence of the autonomic government at the time of communism. It was uncanny at the time that it was being made in that place, I'm talking about TV Vojvodina, about a new facility, and now it's out of your mind to do it. The fact that you're a little alluded to something that got hurt in the bombing, of course no one cares to discuss it, you're right. But you have total indifference, you have a huge space in the Sports and Business Center of Novi Sad, Vojvodina, which you're losing, unequivocal, and a new building for TV is being created. In that building called the Vojvodina Sports and Business Centre, it can all stop and have even more space. There are studies here for the World Cup in table tennis, and you know it well. No, but, literally stubbornness or some other reason, we will see, time will show, is behind the rise of a new building, to continue to be a symbol of the future European Vojvodina. It's a danger. As far as college is concerned, you're quite the subject of principle. Do you know, and you know for sure, that the lecturers are at this very university, in the direction of journalism for journalists Dinko Gruhonjic, Marina Fratucan and all the top journalists who are in the first place how and how to spread Serbia, how to train as much as possible. journalists to do the job effectively. It's common knowledge. It's this independent corpus that works at the Faculty of Journalists and directly works them so that in a new building, with a huge surface, completely untapped, so that if it wasn't for Bora Ottic and the ottics, no one would watch the Vojvodina Radio Television, believe me, as you wouldn't have read the New Sad diary if it wasn't for those obituaries. It's sad, but it's true. What are we talking about here? We're talking about justifying huge funds. It was an earlier idea, when it comes to the charge, that the percentage of electricity consumption was paid for the subscription to television, and so it was. We tell you, if you're paid, you can use the same envelope with an electricity bill, but as a special account.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65776	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65777	I thank the chairman. There is one of my discussions obviously not well understood by my colleague Krlić, and I have to say the following, and given what Mr. Mircic mentioned, and it is that unlike him, it is a pleasure to me to build new RTTV buildings, because certain RTS capacities are being restored, but it is also an exclusive pleasure to me for this ordinary world that works there when cameras, makeups, producers, journalists and others. What I do not agree, I do not agree with this tax increase, is not an excessive amount of 35 dinars per month, but I no longer know another way to deal with this kind of management of RTS, which I believe from the Socialist Movement, and many citizens in the Republic of Serbia are not satisfied with, that by their work, that their editorial policy, when the area of culture, when it comes to education, is not satisfied with even the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we could conclude from the response of Mr Vukosavljevic when we had a session with the Government. Therefore, I can't be satisfied when I'm not able to watch Serbia's team games at public service, when not only was I unable to watch games, but they didn't find out what they could do or what they could do, which is to take over 90 seconds of the time of those others who were allowed to take over, so let's see goals from those matches that interest the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or the most important moments of some sporting events, and on this money, budget money is financed by the primary first series of certain series, when they reach an appropriate level, suddenly RTS is no longer interested in transferring them. I am very interested in some of the series that I liked looking at in the second and third seasons, but I am not going to pay anyone extra money to watch and invite citizens of the Republic of Serbia to boycott watching and racketeering in this way to watch some of the shows that we all loved to watch. It is a way for us to deal with RTS management, which will be very difficult to change or bring to order to work exclusively and solely in the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65778	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. My friend Krlic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65779	Comrade Komlensky, there's a lot I'd agree with about your discussion. But I'll give you one piece of information, 11 December in the RTS building, there will be a public debate on the RTS programming council, i.e. Public service, it will be a great opportunity and I call on all other MPs and those who are interested to come and make excuses before the management and chairman of the programme council. It certainly makes a lot of sense in what you said, but I'll do it again, that's management that's replaceable. He's now and as long as I don't know. My further objection is that we do not have a director of Serbian television. We have the CEO of RTS, i.e. Public service, we have a radio director, but three competitions were held for the director of television, all three were rejected. The competition was attended by employees, Mrs Vacic can confirm this, employees of people with great experience, with great international recognitions and awards, as director of television unfortunately, since it is discreetly the right of the Director-General to propose which of the candidates he will be, the director of television has never been elected. I think that's another thing we need to talk about. I can only tell you that, as far as the two names you said were concerned, a professor from the Faculty of Journalists. Reporting, the Faculty of Philosophy, I can agree that it was someone who earned that function by once being against a system, which destroyed that system, and then got a teacher's place for the prize. But it's only two cases, there are great professors there, and we're not going to say that the University of Novosad, i.e. that the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad has no staff and there are no professors who can really train and train future students and come out of that university very good generations. I'm sorry they're not representatives of modern Serbia, they were, their representative was on the board. Their proposal wasn't just this, a charge or a budget, it was not to finance a public service at all. This is good for the citizens of Serbia to hear, especially you MPs, because the interruption of public service financing means the removal of public service. It's good that public service workers know what the opposition thinks about tomorrow's election and what their plans are, their abolition, the absolute abolition of public service and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65780	Thank you. Please, we have three reported replicas, three colleagues, two colleagues and a colleague. You'll definitely get the word. First, a colleague named Gjorge Komlenski was mentioned. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65781	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Krlić, of course I will accept your call and the 11th come and say much more than I have the opportunity to say in this transmission. But the question is, will I come to do it just so my conscience will be completely calm when I launch an initiative to replace RTS management and its management? You yourself said in your discussion ten minutes ago that such disrespect for this home was shown by the failure of the Director-General, the head and responsible editor of RTS to this house when discussing an extremely important issue for the Republic of Serbia, which is electoral conditions, creating equal conditions for the elections that await us in a relatively short time. Is that some kind of an epidemic of insolence? What have they become, who? Over who? Above what? I seriously don't think you should accept a proposal to increase taxis. I'm very sorry for every RTS employee and RTV, who do very well and do their job honestly, besides these people who spend their days here with us doing their job probably for far less personal income than many others. But management needs to seriously discuss whether this is a public service that has to take care primarily of culture, education, the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, the national interests that are above all, and that they turn around and return to young people, not to make more of their own private combinations that they think we are stupid and not to see. We see them very well, and we hope that the prosecution will see them soon, too, so they'll have a little chat. And when the D.A. gets serious about doing his job, hopefully soon, we'll have a lot to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65782	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Fellow Members Mihailović Vacic, you are mentioned during the presentation of your colleague Krlic and you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65783	I thank the chairman. He's exactly a colleague of Krlic's. I know what kind of enthusiasts and professionals do at the Public Service, and I know that we have to make sure that those people who work there have the best conditions to work. The rest of my colleagues ask if and when was the last time you spoke and asked the cameramen who were here in this room from morning till night, or perhaps colleagues sitting in direct all day, in what conditions do they work? And there she could agree with her colleague Komlenski, but it doesn't mean that hearing estimates about the dissatisfaction of management doesn't mean we should appeal to abolish the subscription. The public service must be stablely funded. The government is devoting certain funds from the budget to help RTS as a public service to consolidate the tax as a stable means of financing. There's a lot of ground now. My colleague Mircic mentioned the building. And the building belongs to basic and basic working conditions. You told my colleague Mircic that the role of TV and the justification of its existence is only because it broadcasts programmes in the languages of national minorities. Well, what else are you going to do? Only that is more than enough, because one of the legal obligations and the role of public service is to promote diversity, diversity and the rights of national minorities. When it comes to the charge of a charge over an electric number, this is determined because the electric count, i.e. that way, provides the most secure and maximum charge. This time, citizens know exactly how much that tax is and what they pay for. I agree, if anyone exists in this home who knows better and what the flaws and advantages of the Public Service are, I know. I spent 25 years there. Can the information program be better and the public service is doing better? Of course he can. But let's get the story serious and see the impact and importance of the Public Service for Society and State. All that the state of Serbia is in both cultural and valuable terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65784	Thank you, colleague. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65785	With all due respect to journalists, cameramen, technical staff, we still need to discuss this more seriously. It is known earlier that RTS is, and thus, RTV has been pre-renamed when it comes to the number of employees, and this is an acute problem from earlier periods and no one has entered today by management to solve the problem slowly. There are thousands of employees, and many of them needlessly there, as it comes now to take time, but everyone knows, by different keys, on different grounds. We understand and understand that those who are part of the technical service, those who are journalists, those who are professionally doing their job, are not at all easy conditions and, above all, for their work, and are ultimately not adequately paid. But please look inside the house how much does Olivera Kovacevic have? From television to TV, from Vucelic to Borko Stefanovic. And now we have to go over the electrician to pay for those adventures of hers. Well, you can't do that. That's the stuff that sells. We're buying, there's this part that my colleague Krlić is absolutely right about, and we all know, there's something that's of interest to the state, to society, but there's something called a commercial, which is represented in public services. Excuse me, if someone won't pay for that stuff, why would they force him to pay it over the electricity counter? Why would they do that? A special bill, with an electricity bill, so if anyone wants to pay, let them pay, if they don't, so let them take some roads that are regular and according to the law. But you can't make someone pay for that luxury of management at RTS without talking about tv and I'm behind it. The core justification of RTV only in the existence of a programme for national communities, national minorities. When it comes to the building. It is a missed investment, it is a waste of money, unless it is thought to maintain the continuity of the European Vojvodina and don't play it at all is a naive question, the issue of Vojvodina is a question that comes after Kosovo on the agenda, if not before.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65786	Thank you. Now, let's go orderly by amendment. First, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65787	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I would ask only Mr. Chairman that you follow closely when you give the replicas, given that you have broken the Rules of Procedure several times, because the one who received the word has not always been mentioned. And this topic that we've opened, about paying public service fees, is primarily a financial topic. Why? Because we are talking about sustainable use of financial resources when it comes to funding national television. When we talk about it, we have to say that once the tax was 500 dinars, that once the budget was four billion dinars, that today it was three billion and 150 million dinars, and that the tax was twice as small as it was before. This means, however, that RTS has succeeded in a certain way, on commercial grounds earning and supporting its employees. Does she do her job in line with Serbia's citizens' demands to be informed that they know everything at all times in the best and most efficient way possible? It can be discussed by the Committee on Culture, but when we talk about how much tax there will be, then we see if it is really worth it in terms of certain budget contributions and whether it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. According to this, according to the proposal made by the Government and by what the MPs voted on the Committee on Finance, this is one proposal from the Committee on Culture. We think it's acceptable at this point. Therefore, any expansion of the topic, the discussion of the Vojvodina policy, of what teachers do, where they work, and why they work, is not in the interest of the general discussion that we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65788	Thank you. On your note, just a few sentences. I am very closely following the presentation of the MPs. In accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as chairman, assess whether there is a basis or not to be given to the MP after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. If it indicates a breach of the Rules of Procedure or if it considers that it has a right to replication. As far as the reference is concerned, it is not the word, the basis for the replica, not only must it be a personal reference but someone misread as counterpart Krlic said that he was a wrongly interpreted colleague of Komlenski, as he referred a specific question to counterpart Vacic. So it was the basis for giving colleagues and colleagues the opportunity to answer questions, suggestions or suggestions. Of course, you can always point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. By amendment, MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65789	Thank you, Chairman. Every community service has to be paid. This is what I believe is supported by the vast majority of Serbian citizens and especially by Serb hosts living in the country and watching RTS and RTS programmes. So first of all, I ask you, and I've pointed out this several times, to get rid of the obligation to pay the TV subscription all the numbers that are not in the position of watching television, at all, and especially the agriculture of production in stables and the lampposts in the irrigation function. What do the village hosts expect from public service? They expect television with national frequencies to be dedicated to their impact programmes for at least a few minutes for the village, rural life, its successes and problems. I'm only looking for three minutes a day for the village. Three minutes on Dnevnik TV, that our citizens of old and young, current and future Serbian hosts see that national television for which they pay the subscription respects them, their viewers. I ask members of the RTS Management Board, directors and editors of the most watched TV in Serbia only three minutes for our village, which has fed us all and preserved us in the most difficult times. Dear MPs, it's 90 minutes in a month. That's how long a football game lasts without any extensions. Is three minutes much for 43% of the population and 87% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65790	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word has been made by the MP Alexander Markovic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65791	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have long been registered in the system because I wanted to point out a few things about this debate on RTS and several speakers have brought out the most important things when it comes to funding. I must say, I am inclined to defend the principle of public service being financed by citizens of Serbia. I think it is the best principle of funding, since public service, as counterpart Krlić said, should not only be seen from the aspect of the information programme that I think we all have a grudge here and that these objections are very justified and I have great regrets about the work of the information programme myself. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that the Public Service also contains a cultural and artistic programme and that it contains a scientific and educational programme and that these are, in principle, non-profit programmes. This is the answer to the question why the state, or citizens, must finance the Public Service. So, I don't think there's any special ones here, there's no need for a particular controversy. On the other hand, Mr. Risticevic and Mr. Komlenski and many others have looked back on the information program "RTS" and are absolutely right. Mr. Krlić also mentioned examples of disrespect by the "RTS" to the National Assembly, and I myself witnessed the example that Mr. Krlić spoke of, when they did not come to the public hearing organised by the Committee on Culture of the National Assembly, when they did not allow the editor responsible to come either, so neither did the director, but they sent one journalist, if I am not mistaken. But they have a whole series of other disrespects of the National Assembly by that particular RTS. I will remind you that on several occasions I also spoke at a session of the National Assembly that radio-television rarely when there is a report of a session of the National Assembly, which was on the agenda, which we passed and so on. So, rarely when. I look at all the programs, I try to watch "RTS" as much as possible, and I am almost never on their main diary, so on the second journal I saw a report on the work of the session, or a report from parliament. During yesterday, only information was that President Belarus Alexander Lukashenko came to the National Assembly and gave a speech. What we discussed, the amendments and everything else, there was no words, no pictures, no words. Someone said something about a show called "What the hell are you doing? “ or whatever the name of the show is. I think it is a shame that all the activities of the National Assembly, MP groups, whether ruling or opposition, are contained in one show that has 15 or 20 minutes and is called "What the hell are you doing? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” On the other issues of "yellow" Bujket, "yellow" Oil and who we have already mentioned here, I think that the whole of Serbia knows our position and the attitude of other parliamentary groups, but it is really important to defend the principle that the public service must be financed by citizens. So, about the modality itself, in which way, I think it's neither the time nor the place that our authorised representative, Mrs. Tomic, said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65792	Thank you. My colleague Rističević, you are mentioned, you have a basis for replica, your colleague Marković mentioned you. You see, colleague Tomic, now imagine that we do not allow colleagues Risticevic to respond. Here's a colleague, Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65793	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Markovic, not that I'm right, but 1,000 times right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow modified political organism, the youngest Tito Ljoticvac is a crab, if I remember correctly, for "RTS" every socio-helpful work is paid. I haven't heard of this kind of social-helpful work that's been paid. It was probably transferred from this youngest age of Titus, the youngest Tito's Ljotic committeeman interpreted that social-helpful work must be paid. He probably charged for it, so as a high school student from Cačka, he became Tito's youngest councilman, i.e. The youngest Tito Ljotician in Belgrade. In doing so, he sided with those who robbed farmers by confiscation, kidnapping, confiscation of property, property, agricultural products and so on. And today is the fight for the village. He modified himself, dressed up as a folk costume, although he had never worn it before, and now, suddenly he remembered that he had been paid for the community service. Mr. Markovicu, agricultural emissions on RTS are a real gig. I had a reporter here in a leather jacket and fur, what's her name, a collar... And it's just so filled up... and asked me to make a statement about the furry, about the chinchillas. So, I stood up when the fur can be worn and imported, so that it can be produced. She put in my contribution some articles with bloody animals and so on, and by finishing that contribution she covered with a scarf so that it would not be seen that she and how a fur lover were. Each of these agricultural leaders in these agricultural programmes on RTS has its own weight, advertises certain agricultural products, advertises certain importers or campaigns, this time for the benefit of fur importers against producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65794	Thank you. Given that several members of parliament are registered, according to the amendments, the first word must be given by the authorised representative or by the head of the parliamentary group, in this case by counterpart Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65795	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, only to remind the citizens, and many colleagues here. So, the introduction of a fee for RTS starts from 2005. When the SNS took responsibility for running the country since 2012 and when there were ideas about removing this model from the EDB number of each user, it was that UNS, NUNS, and all associations had rebelled precisely because they said they would, practically, come to the brink of financial collapse, when it comes to the public services of Vojvodina and Belgrade. So, what are we talking about today? Today we are talking about an increase in the level of compensation, i.e. the fee for using RTS, i.e. public services and the Vojvodina Radio Television, which is no longer 500 dinars. At the moment we came to the conclusion that, as the Republic of Serbia, we cannot pay neither salaries nor pensions, when we came to the results of the work of an irresponsible authority that today is Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, we have come to the conclusion that this tax of 500 dinars, today we have a proposal from 220, to increase to 235 dinars. At that time, at the time of its introduction by 2012, there was an opportunity for the tax to be abolished, there was an opportunity to make a whole new modelling of this fee, there was an opportunity for RTS to enter the market and become one of the sustainable funded televisions. However, if we want this principle of funding for citizens to simply participate in the financing of the Public Service, then it is perfectly acceptable for citizens to have the right to be informed in an adequate manner, rather than for those who pay to edit the programme. You have many private televisions today, as Mr. Marijan Risticevic has explained many times here, how are they financed? Of many NGOs, of many re-emissions, by some organisations that are not even in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we want Public Service, we want it to exist in a way that requires all high standards. As you can see, we are one of the countries, members of the Western Balkan countries, which obviously have the highest level of development in public services. For us, this is very important that this is financing in an extremely sustainable way. This now budgeting is much less than it was in 2012, 2013 and 2014 and acceptable for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65796	Thank you, colleague Tomic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65797	Dear Vice President, Mr. Milicevic, let me briefly say that the Public Service needs to be financed and I think that most people really think that in this high house and that it is one serious service, one serious television despite the objections that we all have and MPs of the ruling coalition, as well as from opposition parties. What is very important, which is that I regret that today there are no those on the Committee on Culture, those on "The Alliance for Serbia", from the DS, and some other newly formed parties, who have sought maltenes to be represented on a daily basis. It can go on private television. Serbia's radio television is a serious service. He informs about the institutions of work, and then they have objections that too many representatives of the ruling coalition, that Boris Tadic, while he was president, was doing his job and he would be more present on TV. This depends on activities in the first order and on institutions, the institution of the Prime Minister and individual ministries, etc. There are many internal problems that some of the MPs mentioned. They'll probably solve it, but I hope and believe that RTS will finance itself in the future. There's no doubt whether we should support this or not. When I said that individual representatives from the DS and other parties, those from the Alliance for Serbia, were breaking into RTS, they are not here today. You know why they're not here? They really killed democracy, not only in the state of Serbia, but also in their party killed democracy. You know who killed their democracy? Zoran Lutovac, in a nation called “the strayer. ” How? Dear citizens, you know very well, through Dragan Gilas, who in all ways, through Zoran Lutovac is trying to completely control the DS which, behold, he has destroyed in time. That's the point. That's why they're not here. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, and you from the Association of Journalists of Serbia and you from an independent so-called. Serbia's journalism that none of the journalists came forward for an attack on the government of Djukanovic on 30 November 2019 on the Banjic plateau by those from "The Alliance for Serbia", while along with the children and the wife went. Why were NGOs silent? Did one of the honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, come forward? None of them are. What were the press associations doing? Did you follow? None of them answered. But look at the wonders, someone said today - they need journalists. And it's true, first of all, being a patriot. A journalist who is not a patriot cannot perform his duties. Now let me tell you why, by example. Journalist Mališić, I guess she's the deputy editor of the NIN list, it seems to me that Snezana is called, is on the show "The impression of the week"... (Miss Radeta: Marco, Vesna's name is.) Vesna Mališić, I guess. So I know the last name is Mališić. In the show, "The impression of the week" she said that "Serbia is crazy and that one man holds the key to that asylum," a quote concluded. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there he was, along with the president of the Association of Journalists of Serbia, it seems to me that his last name is Radomirovic, I apologize if his last name is not correct. He was amazed at the end of the show, however, recommended to Mrs Malisic, to change her profession. Look at the wonders, the beautiful Olya Bećković, was amazed, if you saw. She didn't react, she's gone, but she's still amazed. What I can say as a man and a citizen - shame. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected journalists, I address you, not one, I will take an example of Germany or any country in Europe, a German intellectual, no German journalist or publicist will ever work to harm their own people and the state. Find it for me in the history of one. He will never say anything ugly about them, as Mrs Malisic said. You individual Serbian politicians, not only Mrs. Malisic, depicted in "The Alliance for Serbia", waved opposition party activists from "The Alliance for Serbia", come to European countries, as well as to Germany, here, and other Western countries, but also in Serbia propagate anti-Serbian and anti-state positions under the company of democracy and freedom from dictatorship. That's the problem we have. I believe that many MPs see him. And, behold, miracles, Vuk Jeremic, in a people called "The Wolf of the Seed", called Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, quoting: "The houl, against which the warrant of Interpol will be called," finished the quote. The day before yesterday, the same Vuk Jeremic said, I quote, "She deserves much worse qualifications," and Mr. Seselj, Mr. Sapic, Cedu Jovanovic and others were called, quoting: "Dumps" and others from the opposition. Mr. Jeremic, I am some of those you have called, there are others, I don't share the same political views, I would never say that to a political opponent, but I believe what I know today, without seeing what I think of Cedomir Jovanovic and Nenado Canka, but I know that to this day I am not familiar with the members of the international group of thieves and frauds, like you, Mr. Jeremic, were with Sheik Tidian Gadia and Patrick Ho and other white-world thieves. I will no longer speak of what this white-world thief is doing against the interest of the Serbian state, just to remind you, I have spoken here at every international visit by the president of the state, going to that country and muddying the state and the president of the state when he visited Mr. McCron to France, Mr. Pens to the United States, to the Russian Federation, etc. Do you know what that Wolf Jeremy is doing? I don't have time to tell you everything, whose money does it take into account its centre for the sustainable development of democracy, from which countries, whose interests does it work? In the end, Mr. Vice President, I'm just saying, have you seen Mr. Branislav Trifunovic on the same show? I ask him publicly, in front of Serbian citizens, whether it is true that on a round table, let him plead, not in a drama piece, but on a round table in Leskovac after the performance, he said: "That various crimes are committed under the Serbian flag and that it is not his flag and that the split of the Serbian flag is a patriotic act," the quote concluded. This is a quote from a serious list, not a tabloid, of the Serbian state. I'm calling him public, have him come to any TV and say if he said it or not. And the RTS representative who left the meeting, I really congratulate him, I think his name is Conic or Contic, doesn't matter, but he's a representative of RTS. The honourable MPs, in the end, the Public Service should be financed, the tax should be a little lower and lower and the time will come, as in neighbouring some countries, when the Public Service will be able to finance itself. The opposition's objections do not stand. Mrs. Macura can't come to the board and say that she, as a MP, has never been invited to RTS. Imagine miracles! She can be recorded here every day by RTS, but she's never here. It's called in the people of "the sick ambitions of the MPs of the people." Now, that's it. They also cannot demand representation from a party that is not parliamentary. She says - her party, and I don't even know what her name is, because every day she flies from one side to the other, like that Marinika Tepic Cobanu, in the evening she lies in bed in one party, in the morning she wakes up in the other party. So we can't even know which party he's in. Once again, in the end, we support this proposal from the Government to fund the Public Service, regardless of the objections we have individually. There are, thank God he can do better. Can I have internal relations, because I see that many make remarks, of course they can and should. Because, please, I wasn't going deep, but I know there are some things that are impossible out there. But I think they'll handle it. And we, when the report is held at the sessions of this high house, the annual reports, have the opportunity to discuss that too. In that name, we'll vote for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65798	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Branimir Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65799	Thank you, Chairman. Today when we talk about the Public Service, we actually need to look at two aspects. The first is the quality of the programme, i.e. the means of spending, financial resources in RTS, and this has already been discussed by colleagues. My colleague, Natasa Mihajlovic, spoke about the conditions in which RTS and TV employees work. As for the quality of the program, we should always talk about it, it should always be the subject of our debate. But, RTS, as far as the quality of the program is concerned, has one obligation that is not commercial television, and we always have to keep that in mind, which is that it must have a quality cultural-art program, a quality educational program, a sports programme, a program intended for national minorities, a program intended for disabled persons, and not to list any further. The public service needs to put the quality of the program first, not the profit. We must insist on that quality. The second aspect we're talking about is the justification for paying a TV subscription. We can't let RTS finance itself out of commercial income alone. I'll set an example of how it works in the world. Generally, it is a practice for TV subscription, where TV subscription is paid, to be paid in the same way as in Serbia, via an electric number, in most European states. Somewhere it is financed only from the budget -- the Netherlands, Spain, Romania, somewhere it is funded combined, as is the case with us, in part from the budget, somewhere in a TV subscription, such as in Hungary, the Czech Republic, the Slovak case. And it's just a matter of methodology of how to finance the Public Service. So far, this is the best way we have. That he's the most righteous, he's not. It can certainly be more just, but for now, we don't have a better solution. I will remind you that in the world of journalism, BBC is considered a good example of the Public Service, and this British public service totals 6.6 billion euros and 75% of those funds, so two-thirds, comes from a TV subscription, and one part comes from the government budget. Also, public service exists in the United States, it's a Pi-Bi-Es, since 1967. He's not the same as in Europe, but he's similar. And it is based on the same principles as public services in Europe, which are, above all, objective information and quality artistic, educational and documentary programme. Public service needs to be financed. Whether it's going to be more out of the budget or out of the subscription, we can always talk about it. But in any case, we can't leave it to the laws of the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65800	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65801	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, whenever it is on the agenda, that is, the topic Public Service, the controversy is fierce and I fully understand it. What I would, only if I could make a few contributions, important, to this subject -- I agree with the government's proposal. It's not a dispute and it's not a problem in 15 dinars of increasing TV tax. But we who come somehow from within Serbia, from smaller places, are allergic when the tax is mentioned. In 2012, I had this privilege and happiness in the campaign that with Mr. Vukic and Tom Nikolic I am clearly and loudly saying that we will be pushing for the cancellation of the TV tax and then it is hard when I come to the situation today that I should vote, including that the dinar is an increase, let alone 15 dinars. Mr. Mircic, that's what you know. So it's hard for me to vote for 15 dinars. (Faith of Radeta: 25.) What, 25? All right. But one thing I would like to mention, the Honorable Chairman, is that my colleagues have said before, and I would only say to my distinguished colleague Tomic that we should all work together and as the National Assembly to return the term of regional public services. And this is something very important and very important, because unfortunately, the interior of Serbia, we have heard this here in the debate, that there are very few thematic shows as it lives, but the problems of the village, the problems of young people in small towns are very little represented in public service programmes. And if there's no room there already, it would be nice for us, for example, to have a regional public service in Shumadia, to have Kragujevac TV back or some other channel that I don't mind funding through public funds, but to be a public service again. I spoke to my colleague Risticevic here a moment ago. Here, I'm a national MP living in the country and I'm currently paying two TV fees. Here, I'm one of those MPs who's currently paying two TV fees. And please, Mr. Minister, if we can really, appreciate it, because thousands of households in Serbia are even worse than I am and pay three to four TV fees. I think it's high time we at least helped these people, who have irrigation systems, have separate husband systems in their stables, and that cattle just doesn't watch TV and there's no need to pay TV fees on the numbers. That's it. We can talk about the public service itself and their information program by tomorrow, but it won't be a big deal. That's why I'm asking you, at least what's real and what we can change, that we can change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65802	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65803	Thank you, Chairman. I will join the wish of some of my MPs that soon the public service will be able to finance itself, but until then we should support their functioning. In that sense, I will vote for this proposal in the voting day, because it gives us a certain solution to this issue. In addition to the remarks we have been able to hear in the debates so far, there is indeed absolutely little information about what we are doing in the National Assembly. Sometimes it seems to me that we can get more information on what is going on in some other countries than in our country. I want to say that I agree with everything and everything that my colleague Aleksandra Tomic said, so I wouldn't repeat myself in that sense. I must also say that we have a situation that, on the one hand, there is no Assembly or is represented in a very small minute, and on the other hand we have very instructed television and journalists who openly attack both SNS and in their shows very openly represent the opposition, more specifically the Alliance for Serbia or various organisations, such as "One out of five million". That way, I don't know if they're aware of it, they're just giving support to a link to their political insatiables. It is obvious that in Serbia today some things are normal that were earlier or should not be. These are daily pressures on Alexander Vukic and on the SNS. We don't give in to these pressures. We're fighting and we're gonna keep fighting, no matter what they're drawing targets that put on our breasts or make some of them just funny cartoons and photo montages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65804	Thank you. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65805	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have come to such a situation... So, we were just saying that for RTS, which is paid by all budget citizens, Kosovo is an independent state. In all information and other programmes, they publish a map of Serbia without Kosovo. This is funded in a very abundant way from Serbia's budget. It's now as an argument to be what used to be financed more, and today it's less can't stand. Because, if there is a situation in Serbia, we should probably have a national television that, if financed from the budget, then there should be a supervisory or management board that names parliamentary political parties, rather than paying out of the budget, to fund anyone who uses electricity in Serbia and uses public service and pays RTS, after which they are elected and we do not have any influence on who is elected there on these boards and on what principle. That's the first one. We have heard here that the essence of public service is diversity and diversity of the programme, i.e. Content. It is diverse. The RTS can also show Vukic and Vulin and Drecun and all others, some of the top MPs or SNS officials. Where are the other political parties at the public service, and how much time do they have? So that's one of the basic questions about that, and that we watch as some others are, so so we, too, I think, as far as RTS is concerned, don't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65806	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MP of the People, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, with a correction, and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65807	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, your right to know everything. It's the slogan of the RTS Public Service. As a multiple subscriber, i.e. a tax payer, I four times pay the public service that censored me, not only in the 1990s, to Mr Martinovic and Orlic, in the middle of the Assembly. I believe I'm the only MP here who's been censored multiple times at National Assembly sessions from the RTS Public Service. Your right to know everything. I can say I don't mind paying, but I won't vote. To vote for the yellow Buicket and the yellow editors set by Boris Tadic, I will not vote for it. I can pay four times. I can stand being censored. I was recently called to the Questionnaire. After 30 years, I almost went live on an information show without being tied to the election. Almost, but they called me in the morning and said, "You know what, we'll call you some other time. Basically, two oppositions, two, who were supposed to be, those two, and I, they conditioned it. If I come, they won't participate, so it was easiest to write me off. (Jorge Komlenski: Which one? Djordje Vukadinovic is one of them. So, despite everything, I will pay, but I won't vote, because I got the answer from Bujosevic that, on his contract with Gilas, it's a business secret between the two sides and I can't know, and it's our right to know everything, the contents of those contracts, because they agreed that it was a business secret. That's why our viewers can't watch television broadcasts of the most important events that are passed on by illegally fake cross-border televisions, which are still broadcast and commercials and RTS don't object to it, because when they need money, they turn to us from the budget, so we're funding both the yellow Buket and God to me and yellow Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65808	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Mirko Krlić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is difficult to break the arguments stated by my colleague Marijan Risticevic. Indeed, there are many of them, and he has opened up the eyes of many of what is really happening on this television market in this topic of the general use of the media that broadcasts the television program very deeply. However, I would ask him to change his mind and decide to support the public service. It's been said here even once that there are too many public service employees, and that's true. It's a founding state and there's a large number of employees. But something about these employees, too, we have to tell the truth about it, and because of the people who work there. I had the opportunity to be a member of the delegation that visited the ORF in Austria, Public Service and Radio Television of Slovenia in Ljubljana with the association and session I was talking about. These cameramen, who are behind the mixer, would probably be thrilled to see the ORF technique, see how all the studies can be faced and how all the technique has progressed. However, as we spent a few days there, we had opportunities to watch the program. That program, I'll say it freely, isn't even 30% of RTS quality. I mean, technique is important, but public service in Serbia makes people, and we have to respect these people for these people, not for management, because of those who make this programme and who, once with a technique that may already deserve to be a museum exhibit, produce a program that is amazing and that is certainly the best in this part of Europe. That's why, Mr. Risticevic, let's forget management, because these people deserve their salaries. I'll tell you that a young journalist who graduates and now gets a job on one of the radio televisions, i.e. in the Public Service with the Faculty of Journalists, whether in Belgrade or Novi Sad, it is part of the fourth category journalists with about 30,000 to 35,000 salaries. That's another thing we can't discuss at this point, but I think we need to think about that social side, and that's why this tax is also necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65810	I thank my colleague Krlic. Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65811	I'm afraid my colleague Krlić got it all wrong. I'm not saying we don't need a public service. I say we don't need a public service like this. So, I'll take the decision and pay four subscriptions, but it's time for something to change in the management and manner of the Public Service. I don't even ask the ruling parties to have a discount, I don't even cry over the fact that Bosko Obradovic was five times, that Sanda was four times in a year, that Djordje Vukadinovic was five times in a year, that I wasn't one. So, I accept that, too. It is their right to an editorial policy to eliminate me as one of the most active MPs and to have some drowsy who boycott, play, I don't know, four, five times. They're forgiven. But I can't accept that management, so I can pay anything, I can't accept those who, for example, narrated half an hour over the fate of the DS on one political show. Ten thousand people showed up on Nis TV for three seconds, a three-second protest, but then a Martian showed up behind it. He's going five seconds, like someone touched him while he was walking. They jumped each other, the 35-year-old big-time student. I can't accept that RTS doesn't object to cross-border channels that drain some of his money through commercials. So unregistered television broadcasts broadcast Serbian ads, Serbian brands, Serbian factories, etc. And that's how they get directly into the RTS pocket. I can't help waking up. Because RTS doesn't buy rights, but buys them from Gilas or doesn't buy them at all, so the most important sports events viewers, who have the right to know everything, can't follow it. For those reasons, I can't vote, but I can take a decision. We need public service, but this one with the yellow Buicket on its forehead, and that yellow team of editors, and I didn't share any national frequencies, nor did I name those editors, nor do I have a porter, nor do any of you have a porter there. So let him edit his editorial policy any way he wants, but I can't vote for that team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65812	Thank you, colleague Rističevci. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65813	There are a few problems here. First of all, you promised to cancel the subscription in the campaign, so you didn't cancel it already, and now you're increasing it by 35 dinars, these 35 dinars is about 12%, a strange calculation for the same percentage you've increased your toll in time. Where the government gets to that percentage - nobody knows that. We're not going to talk about what you promised, so you didn't live up to it, it's just one in a series of unfulfilled promises, but there's really a lot of problems, and you're going to vote for this bill, as well as us who won't, you mentioned the editorial policy of the so-called. Public service as very bad, which is absolutely correct. But we should mention the fact that we pay and direct transfers of the National Assembly, and that it happens more and more often that this RTS interrupts the transmission of the National Assembly sessions, that it intersects some sports events, then some films, etc. So this is the civilization fluid we fought and fought for nearly 30 years ago and no one can stop transferring the session anymore. When we say, "Here, there is no transmission." Then you say, "You want to speak only for television." Of course, we want to talk about it for the public, and we don't see what's going on here. If you don't say that we're telling some populist story for political points, I'll quote only part of the SRS program that treats information at point 91. It says, among other things, about the distribution of frequencies – the state would have three television channels of which one would only formally be under the authority of the state government because it would fully commercialise and leave itself to private initiative and its free will. Also, state television would not be financed in the way so far done by a television subscription, i.e. a fee, but rather the necessary funds would be supplied through a commercial route and from the state budget. This would free our country's citizens from the financial burdens they faced over the past decades because taking care of their television programme would finally be taken over by the state apparatus. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that the authorities of the state of television are elected by the National Assembly rather than appointed as the government so far. I'm done. If there's something more democratic and something that's more in the interest of the people and public information here's an argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65814	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65815	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 106, Article 107. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, raise your hand to all those who participated in the demonstrations in Belgrade on 9 March. (Jorge Komlenski: On what side? With any one of them. Now, those who were on the other side are allowing a transmission. Allowed. So, Mr. Komlenski allowed it, and Mrs. Tomic, Mr. Jovanovic and I were the ones who asked for the National Assembly's sessions to be transferred and that Budihna resign, that Mitrovica resigns, so the police minister went along the way. We asked for a lot of other things, but the television broadcasts took place during the 9th of March. I don't think yellow buke can forgive us for that. I don't know which side he was on. It was probably on the one that was against TV transmissions and I'm not surprised that a little bit so TV gets delayed, so some game whose sports rights were bought by Dragan Gilas, which is usually some games and some sports that weren't so watched or passed on by a foreign tennis player, etc. Mostly, the most important events, the most important games, European, world championships, the Olympics, when playing our team, basketball, football, etc. and the qualifications that are included in the list of most important events, it does not transmit the yellow Buicke. He leaves it to Dragan Gilas and Šolak to pass it on to "New S", to "Sport Clubs", you know why? Because this is how subscribers are obtained for SBB and Total Television, and the law says that televisions that do not cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to transmit such sports events. He's doing it to raise Sollac and Gilasa's business. I say again, we need a public service, but we don't need a yellow Buick, but I don't interfere with his editorial policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65816	My colleague Risticevic, I believe that my colleague Milicevic did not hurt the Rules of Procedure while he was in charge of the session. Do you want to make a statement? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65817	I have to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because these historical facts are not exactly what my colleague Risticevic presented them for both the dignity of the Assembly and the fact that the truth is completely different. That's why there's reliable data in various security services. In 1990, Vuk Draskovic was recruited by military intelligence services, and to this end, he organised the demolition campaign on 9 March, under the pretext that it should be replaced by the leadership of RTS, and indeed behind it was the intention of those with whom he was in the military's highest structures of the then JNA, right, Mr Atlagic, to carry out the violent shift of Slobodan Milosevic. Of course, later on through a more recent history, but it wasn't that long ago, so I say a newer history, through some time as war years began to defend our people west of Drina and Danube, showed its real role and indeed what this initial intention was on March 9th. I don't really know who might be proud and applauding something like that? The truth was in fact quite different, only after the 1992 elections, were the elections at all levels, both the republican, so federal elections, were then elections for the president of the Republic, the Serbian Radical Party which won the highest number of seats in the then federal assembly, and above all in the republican Assembly in the elections, when it won 73 parliamentary seats, constantly insisted that no session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia could take place without direct television transmission. That, colleague Ruzic, was until 2000. This lasted under some cover of these five-octobarsians, some democracy until 2003, when little by little the RTS began to inform the National Assembly that for these and these reasons they were interrupting the transmission sessions of the National Assembly. Now we're not being notified at all, but... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65818	Thank you. You didn't mention a member I hurt to me, did you? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Article 107.) Article 107. I don't think he's hurt that member. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Now according to the amendment. You have no right to make an amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Employment System. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65819	This law, as well as the next three laws, can't actually be called laws, because it's just that it's an extended deadline for setting a base for wages from 2020 to 2021, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry have not done their job, what they promised and what they promised for two decades in Serbia. This means that no payment classes have been made, to determine earnings in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government and in general in the public sector, and this is indeed a serious problem which also causes problems in the budget, which leads to corruption of employees, which leads to quite chaos in the public sector and to the fact that serious, responsible professionals do not want to work for such low wages. You know, the people think when you say someone works in an organ in a municipality or in an autonomous province, that they have no idea what they pay. There's the most employed so-called. The tenants who work for the minimum wage and these other high-speed employees have salaries from 50 to 60, 70, to the top of the head of thousands of dinars. But that's why there's one big illogicality where in all these bodies there's one smaller number of people who have incredibly high profits, so we have state officials who have more profits than the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Cassation Court, etc. These illogicalities are absolutely unacceptable. Indeed, it is high time to make these pay classes and to know once for a vase, Mr. Ruzic's biggest salary in Serbia must be the salary of the President of the Republic. I'm not talking about the president's name, I'm talking about the function, and everything below that has to be lower pay. You ministers have in your ministries state secretaries and assistants who have higher salaries than you as ministers. If that's normal, it's not. So, that part has to be arranged when it comes to this law on autonomous provinces or units of local self-government, and we're going to do other laws in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65820	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65821	I'm reporting for an amendment. In fact, here we have four laws on changes and additions relating to public sector wages, to salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and local self-government unit. In fact, here it is proposed to delete this member, and by deleting this member is not supported by an extension of the time limit for the application of the law in the part relating to the establishment of the basis for the calculation of salaries of public sector employees, i.e. the authorities of the province or local self-government. We know that one of the strategic definitions of both these and the previous Governments and the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government in whose jurisdiction this issue is, to enable public sector employees to have a more regular wage model. In this respect, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System was adopted in 2016, which establishes the obligation to apply a new payment model, which is the introduction of payment classes. In accordance with this law, specific laws concerning salaries in certain parts of the public sector have been passed in the previous three years. First of all, I mean salaries of employees in local self-government and autonomous provinces, in public agencies and public services. I support the new model of salary billing, because in my opinion it would be more just and would allow about the same salary for the same work. Thus, the pay gaps between many local self-governments will be reduced, destimulating employees in smaller or underdeveloped municipalities. I support the proposal to extend the deadlines for the application of new basics, because it is still necessary to look closely and precisely at all the factors and all the criteria that would be of impact on wages in certain parts of the sector. As we have heard from the minister, it is necessary to make an impact assessment for each job and the professional training of the employees in order to introduce a more just assessment of the work performance and rewarding. At the same time, budgetary analysis must also be carried out, i.e. the impact of such a model on the country's budgetary stability. I would take advantage of the opportunity to praise the activities and projects of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which I spoke about in principle when we talked about the budget, which encourages local self-government to work better and a more professional public service attitude towards the needs of citizens. Petrovac at Mlava, where I come from, is one of the municipalities that applies for funds at the Local Self-Government Units Fund. This is very important and useful, especially for less developed municipalities from third and fourth categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65822	The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65823	Thank you, Chairman. I am of the opinion that, because of the seriousness of this issue and the necessary fundamental analysis of all differences in certain parts of the public sector, the deadline for the application of the new wage model should be extended, i.e. that this amendment should not be accepted. I come from health care, which is one of the most complex public services, because it cares about the health of the entire population on three levels. It is therefore not easy to measure the effect of one specialist doctor or physician of general practice or medical technicians, or even medical staff, without whom the system is not complete. The aim of this law is to be the same salary for the same job, and for its fair implementation it takes more time. I want to take this opportunity to praise the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, led by Minister Ruzic, who during his visit to almost all local self-government in Serbia. Also, I would like to point out that the adoption of amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government that we did last year, which we brought in last year, has improved the work of local self-government. So recently, in Lazarevec, in the presence of Minister Ruzic, a single administrative place was opened, instead of the service centre so far, allowing citizens to receive all the information in one place, but also all the necessary documentation. Also, I must say that thanks to the budget that we adopted here, the Republic of Serbia, as well as the budget of the city of Belgrade, which is stable and developmental, the Lazarevic municipality, in which I live, has won the largest budget so far, which by 226 million dinars since the previous year, and according to the Law on Local Self-Government, citizens will have the opportunity to make their own proposals and opinions on how and how these funds will be used to develop and edit the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65824	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65825	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment was rejected for reasons of indifference, because the amendment does not change the meaning of the provision, but I will take the opportunity to report on the amendment and say that the purpose of these laws is to redefine deadlines. What the minister also presented in his opening statement to other countries that introduced these reforms, when it comes to paying classes, was needed for application and implementation for ten years. For this reason, we believe that this extension of the deadline is justified, because it is necessary to assess and determine payment classes in a fair way, and not to endanger financial stability and the budget, and thus to stop and drain our staff in the public sector. It's about 400,000 employees, it's not a small number. What I would like to point out is that, certainly, the Ministry of Local Self-Government, by introducing e-Government, by electronic applications, as of 1 January of next year, we will also have an electronic application of the dead. In addition, we become, as local self-government, thanks to the laws adopted by the ministry, improve their work, become real civil service, databases are networked, citizens can get everything they need, have a more significant part in deciding when it comes to budget formation. What is investment in the budget, as far as their interests are concerned, when it comes to it, now we are all in some process of preparing the budget for next year where we need to take advantage of that right that we as citizens and democratically have. Of course, what my colleague, Dr. Danica Bukvic, said that you ministers visited most of the local self-government, you were also in our local self-government in the Vrbas municipality. But I want to thank you and your associates, the secretary of state and assistants whenever we need your opinion, your interpretation, when we have had some misunderstanding about the application of certain legal provisions, we have always come across your understanding and your quick answer, which is extremely important to us in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65826	The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65827	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, honourable fellow MPs, I propose that the amendment be rejected because the same does not change the meaning of the provision. This law, as well as a whole set of laws on whose amendments we are discussing, is the need to define the deadlines from which the provisions of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System begin, as well as the need to regulate the working legal status of the same. The reform of the wage system will not only contribute to fair accounting, but will also be a stimulant for the efficient and professional work of the administration and will motivate employees of professional staff to stay in this sector and young people to work in the same. Public administration or how we can say that to the state administration is an important factor in law enforcement. Public administration reform is one of the pillars of the European future and is therefore high among the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. All the praises for the ministry you are leading, Mr. Ruzic, and your advisors, because the facts show that this ministry is trying to provide high quality services to citizens and economic operators. I note that the confirmation of what I'm saying is based on the fact that more than 98% of citizens' data has been transferred into electronic form for the last hundred years. As a result, citizens today can receive a copy of the birth certificate in any municipality or city, regardless of where they are born. The reform of the public administration also brings a greater number of professional trainings for all management employees to get as professional a service as possible in contact with the administration. And the name of the campaign management, by all of us, justifies its name, because its goal is the professional and dignified attitude of staff in the administration towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, it is also necessary to stimulate citizens by passing these laws to give them wind in their backs to provide as high-quality services as possible to citizens. Here is also an important social aspect of the reform, because the majority of services to citizens will be free of charge by connecting all the databases on citizens, and given that I belong to a party whose social justice policy is at the centre, I support that the pay system is precisely arranged and all aspects of diversity in certain parts, such as health, justice, education and others. For these reasons, I support the shift of deadlines to contribute essentially, not only formally, to the better economic situation of all public sector employees. The town of Smederevo, from which I come, thanks for working with this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65828	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65829	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, we have yet to see another set of laws on system laws, which further relieves the economy with clearly defined objectives, increase investments, create new jobs and increase profits in the private sector. Given that we have been setting up an economic environment for seven years, which will allow for a better life for our citizens, I must look back on the fact that this job was not a bit easy in view of the inherited situation in 2012. Robbed and overindebted state, on the brink of bankruptcy, not respected in the world, almost without investment, corrupt and criminal power that left us with a very bad state of affairs, that is, the state on the verge of bankruptcy, enormous unemployment, minimum earnings at African countries level, unfinished projects. In such a country, no one wanted to invest, not domestic, not foreign investors. What positive changes occurred between 2012 and 2019 shows the fact that 620,000 people were employed during that period. Even the most bitter opponents of the SNS, its coalition partners are unable to say anything against such a fact. Our job at the start of the momentum of the economy and at achieving a very high employment rate for just seven years is at the end. This set of laws should enable what is the next phase of the project, which is the creation of sustainable conditions for increasing profits and living standards for our citizens. I am pleased to say that last year the profit burden was 63%, that it is now 62%. When this set of laws is passed, the burden will drop to 61%. It looks like a slight shift, but in fact a huge shift, dispersal of the economy. A shift that represents a reduction in tax revenues per country of 13.1 billion dinars, but the state consciously waives these funds to leave more businesses to raise employees' salaries. This is another fulfillment of the government's promise, as the savings created in the budget are not spent anywhere by domestic and rational availability of taxpayers' money, but go directly to creating conditions for a sustainable pay increase in the private sector. Greater wages lead to greater motivation for employees, thus increasing productivity. The growth in productivity gives a chance for a new increase in earnings and for a greater new value that further increases revenues in the budget. That's how we run a healthy and fair policy. This is how economies develop on a healthy basis and on sustainable growth. In addition, and with this end, employment growth and tax incentives up to as much as 70% free from taxes and salary contributions in the first year, and in the second and third and so on, should encourage employment of particularly young people, and one of the focus of SNS policy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic is this, creating conditions for young people to stay alive and work in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65830	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65831	Thank you, President-in-Office, Mr Arsic, the honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposals that are before us again point out that the government is continuing with system reforms in the public sector, in order to preserve financial stability and, of course, a certain period will be left for adaptation and employers and employees. There are now 23 different basics for determining wages in the public sector and seeking to apply the principle of the same job, the same salary, should be supported, because you offered us a basis both factually and legally, in order to bring this change into practice in full capacity. Another bill that we can say follows the budget, as it refers to salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP or the units of local self-government, concerns the change in the time limit within which the cost of salaries will apply will be moved within the available amount of funding for salaries set out in the financial plans and, of course, the Budget Law. We have already talked about the increase in public sector wages ranging from 8% to 15% and how the average salary will be over 500 euros in dinar equivalent by the end of the year. Real profit growth in the first half of the year was 7.3% and was primarily driven by growth in the private sector. Since 1 January 2020, minimum earnings will be increased by 11% and regardless of what many criticise, it is still the largest increase in minimumers ever, and criticise those who had had the chance to increase the minimumer earlier when they were in power. When the SNS took over in 2012, we didn't know if there would be any pay money at all, and now there's money for regular payouts, but there's money and there's money to increase wages. That's exactly the difference between the authorities until and after 2012. It was all uncertain back then. We didn't have any security. Salaries and pensions were under a great deal of question. Unemployment was 26%, now 9.5%, factories were empty, and just like those who led the state today are criticising solutions that only bring benefits to the citizens. That we're satisfied with the results, we are, but it's true that we think we can do better. It's absolutely certain that we'll try to keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65832	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments that have been submitted by MPs to the Law amending public agencies' salaries laws and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65833	This just before the bill and this one and these two next are actually identical, the same changes are in question, but now people who are watching the transfer, today's transfer session of the National Assembly that will pay a bigger fee for RTS in two days are going to vote for that raise tax, now think, God what these MPs are doing. As this is done in the National Assembly, wages are regulated, laws are passed, and so on. It is that we here should vote previously to discuss that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not done its job. If they hadn't brought the pay grade and we just had to extend today, give them a new deadline when they'd do it. And the colleagues of the government will be praised, that will be the increase, the economy. Says this colleague whose place is known for having been carved by the president of the municipality on a cemetery tap, how this law will affect the growth of the economy. My people, really, give me something to read before... You're wondering which city it's in. Well, that's Leskovac. In Leskovec, the mayor carved his name on a tap in the cemetery. So it's about the government listening to us. Here, for the fourth time, change this law, let this be the last change, and indeed for 20 years, and with the application of January 21st year, Serbia finally gets paid classes. Minister Ruzic, air-conditioned he will. Minister, press this button and tell the public it's going to happen. Everyone before you promised, none of them fulfilled. Let's see if you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65834	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65835	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, there is reason for this critical tone we hear from Radeta, but what I know for sure is that Minister Ruzic will not be a man who will look on the surface of such a change. It is true that all the injustices that are happening to us and that we live, but it is also true that it is not a small business at all and that it is better to extend the deadline than to bring the wrong solution. When I say that, it may happen to us, I'm sure that our colleagues will agree with us, that if we don't end up with this problem eventually we can predict a situation that might later indicate that even the law we've passed isn't much better than the previous period or period when the law didn't have. In that sense, indeed without that subjective approach under the circumstances of the law, that is, the minister who comes from the SAA, although with full right, we are proud of him, because I firmly believe that the new deadline given in the amendment of this law will be respected when it comes to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and Mr. Minister Ruzic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65836	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in particular, in general. You have received amendments to the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of an autonomous province and a unit of local self-government, submitted by the MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65837	I want, of course, not to repeat what I said about these previous two draft laws and this is just about extending the deadline. In fact, these bill proposals are a request, I guess the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give them another year to finish their work that was supposed to be done long ago. I must remind here that Minister Ruzic is in the middle of a debate with us when we spoke in principle, argued that there is a way of calculating the increase or reduction of wages based on the impact on the work of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and units of local self-government, and then here he suggests rewarding officials based on the results of work, determining a greater coefficient in accordance with this law will start to apply from 2022, based on the estimates in 2020 and 2021. So, on a long stick, but without a foundation. How, on what basis will the evaluation be carried out for 2020 and 2021? No, there are no exact ways, exact reasons, data that can be written there in some table and based on them to say which grade can be obtained. Believe me, and I'm sure in the ministry you get who knows how many complaints on the name of the evaluation, it's the direct manager who's making a mess, who estimates that he's got his head on straight, who he's fighting with today, who's gonna get a smaller grade, who he's in better relations with, if he goes to get him coffee, he's gonna get a bigger score. You're really making amazing things. Well, that's why people move, so someone who worked. For example, in property legal affairs 10, 12 years is transferred, I don't know the general government and vice versa without any criteria. It's made of worse personnel anyway, with this poor distribution of local self-government, it's really a mess, no one out there knows how to do anything, believe me, ministers, no one in local self-government, mostly honor the exceptions somewhere, but mostly no one knows how to do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65838	The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65839	The drive to, it's rewarding to be fair and to be even, but it's in any case and we all know something that's ideal, which would be too idealized when it comes to theoretical consideration. However, at least some justice or justice can be implemented, which is if criteria were introduced that would be objective. It is objective that those who do not depend on the individual, do not depend on will, in this case it is the one who determines the coefficient or who determines in the end the officers who need to be rewarded for their work. This objectivity is prevented by the fact that there should always be control or, rather, it needs to be done through the system through this kind of control, which is that there are some real parameters. Based on these parameters, a decision can be made on potential stimulation and rewarding, not how it is left here to decide individuals, or someone who is in a particular function or who is able to do so. As soon as it's subjective, as long as it depends on one man, it opens up a lot of doubts. On the other hand, that negative effect is being achieved. If something is done to wrong or to harm the other is not caused by that effect, which in any case also the minister thinks should be an effect of objectivity, he should stimulate workers to make an effort to contribute by their work to being offended for their work. We Serbian radicals insist on paying classes, insist that they be parameters, that they be questionnaires filled in on the basis of real facts so that criteria are taken. This is all improvisation. It is something that improvises and will ultimately continue to depend on the will of the individual. As soon as it depends on the individual's will, there's no sign of objectivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65840	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65841	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, she calls out to the wolf, and foxes eat meat. What, generally, bothers me in the public sector, which is still at the expense of the real life as it pleases, and the reality that the seas are unequal wages. This is about the province, local self-government, but to take both agencies and independent regulatory bodies and so on, many of them order what they need, 400,000, 500,000, 300,000 and so on. This isn't about that, but I'm saying it's generally a problem for me that ordinary citizens think that MPs and ministers are people with the highest incomes, usually think that MPs are the biggest thieves. They see people on TV and they think we all make like Pretty Bren, and they say, "I don't know, the restaurant that eats everything, I haven't even seen them." I haven't been to a restaurant in three years. Salaries, thefts... Now, I'm saying that my colleagues can steal the Rules of Procedure, two files, three pens, pens, and a coat of paper, so much we have at the Parliament Club something that they might steal, but in the matter of public employees, the situation isn't exactly that. Just for the sake of the citizens and I expect these paying classes and I expect it to be rewarded according to work, professional preparation, that there are clear criteria and so on. Just for the sake of the citizens to say that we are on salaries far below agencies, various fiscal councils, and so on, that we are setting up and selecting people who have five times as much salary as the president of the Republic of Serbia, so when the calls are raised, then raising a little bit to the regional authorities, to the province's MPs, province officials, local officials who account in the pub, beautiful Brena for four people and so on, there is nothing, every company official of the type Alexic, one employee, one secretary, two drivers, two cars, bills, gas stations, fuel and so on. We, the viewers, don't have a future to pay a little more attention to local self-government, that's their closest, they better look at it, the provinces, the agencies, and when they raise their voice against the public sector, raise a little voice against them, not just against us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65842	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65843	Thank you, Chairman. I would take this opportunity to say, in the light of the debate on this amendment, that we all expect payment classes and that I believe that they will as much lead to the order of receipts and that this difference will equalise and make more real incomes. I would also take the opportunity to say something about the importance of the public sector for the functioning of every rule of law, because the first meeting with citizens and citizens with the state is exactly the counters of different public services and institutions where citizens exercise their rights, starting with obtaining copies from birth certificates, exercising their right to child benefits, and thus achieving pension rights, which are, you will agree, crucial issues. The role of the public government is precisely to ensure for its citizens, who as taxpayers and pay for the functioning of the state, in a quick, simple and efficient way, their rights. In that sense, I would like to express a positive view of all these changes that have been taking place in the efficiency of the public administration, which have been the result of public administration reform over the past few years. This process has several segments, and I would highlight the introduction of e-Government, because this segment of the modernisation of public administration, while connecting electronic databases, allows citizens to get all their obligations and rights to public authorities in one counter, so that you, Minister Ruzic, would say, in one administrative place. This project is already being successfully implemented in a large number of municipalities, which contributes to local efficiency. You certainly deserve it, since you have a good intention of bypassing local self-government. Good administration includes both expertise and efficiency, as well as the position of employees who are stimulating and in this respect adequately assesses the impact and appropriate model of wage accounting, as this is also the condition of retaining professional and responsible staff in the public administration. This fact also results in a reform of the wage system, which was initiated by the adoption of first roof law, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, and then specific laws for certain parts of the public sector. The introduction of a single model is now serving to achieve a roof goal, which is an efficient, professional and budgetaryly sustainable administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65844	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65845	What is the logic of making a difference between people who work in local self-government and in the province administration with other employees and what is the need to make such a difference? I will remind you, the financing of the AP Vojvodina in the 2020 budget, slightly more than 715, seems to me, millions of euros are set for the province's administration. So besides that we have one distinct asymmetry in our system, where we have one province and AP Kosovo and Metohija, which is not under our control in fact, for several years, i.e. It's been working as an international protectorate for decades. So 715m euros cost the existence of the AP Vojvodina. Where's the specificity and justification for something like that? What is this speciality in the autonomous province, where there are more than 2/3 citizens of Serbian nationality? Why is that financed? Or is this a continuation, as a pressure from the EU, to create this foundation in the old communist examples that there is some speciality, that this administrative line can one day become a border, etc., as we know it is being prepared for us if the Kosovo issue is over? Why do you give that kind of money? Is it not possible and it is not better to distribute this money specifically to local self-government and to abolish absolute mediation between the province administration and local self-government?? It's just costing. It just takes away time and money. Nothing that bureaucracy brings nor works for the citizens of Serbia. That's the first one. Secondly, what makes the difference between them in grading and paying classes, what is the speciality of these self-employed local self-government and rural administrations having a reckoning? Where's the logic here?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65846	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65847	The Serbian Radical Party has proposed that Article 4 which says "This law enters into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication", is deleted. This is how we want to show that it is pointless to propose such a law. Mr. Minister, we have no reason not to trust you. Your SPS colleagues say you're a valuable man, that you've visited almost most of the local self-government, and that's true. You're seeing something, though, as a government official, something small and in terms of monitoring the situation in your party and it's legitimate. That's not at all controversial. We can't believe that what you suggested, some deadlines, that it would be settled by then. Before you, or you have replaced the current Prime Minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic, in that position. In its time, the Law on the Public Sector Payment System was passed and payment classes were then announced. However, there is nothing yet. The organisation of the public sector's employment system is one of the main pillars on which the functional state rests, namely the provinces and local self-government. We don't have that problem solved. What do we have in local self-government now? Such is the situation in the state administration, such is the situation in both the autonomous province and the autonomous provinces. We have negative personnel selection. It led to this, and you can hear when you contact the representatives of the local self-government unit that some of them have extra employees, but they don't have enough quality, or professional workers, and that's already a big problem. That's not the problem you generated, and it's not the problem that generated this government's call. It's something that's been going on since 2000. He says one, I think he worked at RTS at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and the SRS when she was in power, and there could have been a mistake in the human sense. There are three candidates who are great for a particular place and maybe someone is favored because they have better contacts with the supposed or better contacts with whoever has to give the green light to get a job, but there were only shades and it couldn't lead to a bad personnel picture, to a bad picture at all in Serbia. What we have now, this is terrible, this is a disaster. You certainly know that there are people who, above all, do not meet the law of the intended conditions on the one hand. On the other hand, although they meet the requirements laid down by law for the schedule or reception to that place of work, they are not sufficiently qualified. There are some seminars, there are some trainings and some public or secret listening, but it still doesn't produce any results. Here we have to make people, pay is something that bothers employees at any job to give maximum of themselves. If she's small and she's not adequate and a team before they're for the same jobs, same complexity, paid the same thing, there's a situation in the ministries, we have a situation in local self-government, then that leads to great injustice, and hence to the demotivization of employees. The price is then paid by citizens who are users of these public or state services or services units of local self-government. There must be an urgent way to reward the best, not punish them. We have a situation that, and regardless of what it is, a small number of those from the public sector want to seek employment in private or as it is said to the real sector, where there is the possibility of earning more, but there is also responsibility for both the employer and the funds available to the public sector, incomparably greater than it is provided by public sector employees. It's not good in an administrative way to limit those profits. We had this a few times in ours, as the President of the Republic would say, to a recent history, of course, and a little earlier, but that never gave good results. We have no special and special reason, Mr. Minister, not to trust you. We are not sure that this is just up to you, it must be a political consensus, above all the political parties that are in the government, those MPs who support this government, and then we can expect a better situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-04-0.u65848	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
