ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68037	We continue to work and move on to a unique search on the 6th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONCERNING THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of the common border crossing of the Miratovac-Lojana. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not done so immediately to file a statement with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojana. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Alexander Vulin, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68038	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, and, in order not to get criticism from the SRS, brothers and sisters, there is today a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing of Miratovac – Lojana. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia was signed in Skopje on 16 December 2019. It was signed on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which established the basis for the conclusion of the agreement and adopted the text of the agreement. The approval of the agreement shall allow its entry into force and as provided for in Article 19. Agreement. The Balkan peoples are on each other and only by working together can our region become a region of peace and prosperity. The Balkans to the Balkan peoples is an idea they lived for, but unfortunately for which many Serbian leaders, many Serbian leaders, died. The Balkan Balkan peoples had an idea that rarely came up with the support of major forces, which they always felt the Balkans should not decide for themselves. President Vukic's courage is that he is the first Balkan politician in a long, long time, perhaps since King Alexander, who has had the courage to say a sentence to the Balkan Balkan peoples. The Balkan Balkan peoples are the idea represented by the largest among the Serbs and the Balkan Balkan peoples is an idea that can change the Balkans from the region of wars, conflicts in the region of peace and development. Whenever we Balkans decided on each other, we lived in peace. When they decided about us, we fought for other people's interests and we bled for conflict, wars, fighting, the dissension of the great powers they always wanted here to take just water and air, just take the land, and what would happen to us living in this space, they didn't care. That's what happened today. That is why it is very important to remove barriers to free flow of goods, capital, services and people in the region, and therefore this transition is very important for regional trade. The agreements that Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic, the prime minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, reached on President Vukic's initiative to reduce customs procedures will dramatically increase the attractiveness of all three countries to direct foreign investment. If I may add, first of all, our beloved Serbia. The establishment of a common border crossing of Miratovac – Lojana, Republika Srpska, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, will enable the movement of citizens between the two countries to be improved and traffic across the common state border easier. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojane is foreseen to be a common border crossing on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the first phase, and after meeting the conditions for the smooth functioning of the border authorities of the two countries, the Miratovac-Lojane border crossing will function as a border crossing for border traffic at which border checks are carried out. The special protocol between Serbia's MUP and the Republic of Northern Macedonia will establish the working time of the common border crossing, a list of settlements whose residents can use the crossing, as well as a category of means of transport that will cross the state border. Crossing over this common border crossing will be possible on the basis of a ID or travel document. In the second phase, after meeting the conditions for opening a common border crossing, international road traffic. A common border crossing will function as a border crossing for international passenger traffic. The specific protocol between border police, customs authorities, border crossing management authorities will establish a category of means of transport to cross the state border. Given that an agreement has been reached with the Macedonian party to enter into force by the end of 2019, it is necessary to adopt, in order to fulfil the international obligation, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement by an urgent procedure and to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties", which is Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and allows. Please, honourable MPs, let's have a debate, have a discussion, talk about something that can only be of great benefit to the citizens of Serbia, to the state of Serbia, which we can talk about and talk about the bill, the law that says that Serbia is stronger, braver, more open than it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68039	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68040	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, on the agenda is another bilateral agreement that the National Assembly needs to confirm. It is, in effect, an agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojana. The agreement was signed 10 days ago between the two countries' governments, and it is about the opening of another common, i.e. an integrated border crossing between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Let's remind ourselves that a few months ago, more specifically in August of the month, another border crossing between the two countries was released. This was the border crossing of Presevo – Tabanovci, which is on a very traffic international road, on Corridor 10 and which has contributed greatly to the faster transport of passengers and goods via Serbia and Northern Macedonia to Greece. On the other hand, integrated crossings, a crossing that means that both Serbian and Macedonian customs and police work in one place, i.e. in one office. This all contributes to shorter retention of passengers and cargo vehicles, and on the other hand reduces the costs of both countries. A new common crossing that, based on the agreement that we are currently ratifying, will open at the Miratovac site – Lojane will further improve and speed up the border formalities and relieve the already existing Presevo-Tabanovci crossing. Also, the new transition will certainly reduce, i.e. to prevent a number of illegal border crossings between the two countries, and this is very important because of the fact that both Serbia and Northern Macedonia are located on the busiest migrant route and that, unfortunately, many migrants enter both countries through illegal routes, i.e. outside marked border crossings. As a result, a group of migrants who remain uncontrollable due to illegal border crossings and who are unable to provide them with organised health care and accommodation. The establishment of a new border crossing will certainly play a very large and significant role in this regard. To establish a common border crossing of Miratovac (Republic of Serbia) Lojana (Republic of Northern Macedonia), funds are donated by the Norwegian government, as part of its project for the development of the Western Balkans, and the project will be implemented by the UN Office for Services Projects or so on. Unox. The Agreement shows that this transition will first work as a local crossing point, i.e. a crossing for local traffic, and when the infrastructure and organisational complete complement will become an integrated border crossing for international traffic of goods and services. I would take the opportunity to say that this bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia is also a fruit of improving co-operation between the President of the Government of our countries, which are in agreement on the common objectives and common interests of these two countries, of the interests that are being promoted, namely the improvement and relations of the Western Balkans, whose stability, development, is a significant factor of stability throughout the European area. Similar problems and the historical link between our space should be a motive for improving bilateral co-operation in all segments of society, especially in the area of economic co-operation which, because of complementarity, can be a mutually stimulating factor for greater external trade. In this respect, the Serbian president's initiative, which we call "small Schengen", whose participants are Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, has great importance for the development of this part of the Western Balkans because it will make it much easier to cross the border, transport goods and services between our three countries. This will allow for the continuous work of agreed border crossings between our countries, where citizens from one country to another will be able to cross with their ID card. Serbia is the leader in the region, who proposes many political and economic initiatives to develop this part of Europe, which also contributes to strengthening Serbia's international position and confirms our commitment to developing good neighbourly relations and resolving conflict through dialogue. In the end, I thank my colleagues, and ultimately appreciateing the importance of opening another integrated border crossing for Serbia-North Macedonia's economic and political co-operation, the SPS parliamentary group will support its ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68041	Thank you. I ask once again if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68042	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when it comes to relations between Serbia and Macedonia, we heard an idea that appeared without any notice in our public, which is the idea of so-called. "mini Schengen" or the Balkan Union. I'll remind you that since 2000 we've been listening to how European integration is. Serbia's EU membership is our strategic commitment, as we are committed, to opening chapters and achieving the level of that relationship that Serbia should have towards Europe as well as neighbours. No one, of course, has ever asked Serbian citizens whether they are for EU integration or not. We see that there are differences today and within the ruling coalition on this issue, some are not for the EU, some are, but we have suffered very difficult consequences of the European integration process. I remind you that because of the European integration process, we had to achieve maximum co-operation with The Hague tribunal, even some governments delivered the former president of the state to the Hague tribunal on one of our biggest holidays, on Vidovdan, arrested and delivered as if some were our general and political officials, all because of the imaginary road to the EU. That's why we lost Montenegro. Montenegro has declared independence. We had to make peace with that and allow it and Kosovo also declared independence in 2008 unilaterally, and the EU supported it. All major Western countries and the most powerful Western countries have recognised this independence, and the EU has recognised this independence as an organisation, as the EU has a feasibility study for so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. You know that feasibility studies do not exist for provinces, for regions, for local self-government, for NGOs, for nothing but independent states. It is one of our indicators of what Kosovo is for the EU. The European Union in KIM has the Eulexa mission, the goal of which stands as the basic item of their existence in the explanation, the installation of Kosovo institutions, so the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo. The Republic of Serbia, because of the EU, had first had to, and on behalf of Serbia, the ruling of the DS to conclude so-called. Bork agreements, which contribute to the construction of an independent Kosovo, followed by the Government of the SNS Brussels Agreements, both first and second, which also help the statehood of the so-called state. the Republic of Kosovo. Because we gave up influence in northern Kosovo because of some Serb municipalities community, and we saw that it was another fraud, because for five years it has nothing to do with it. Aleksandar Vukic announced from Brussels that the signing night would be formed by the Community of Serb municipalities, and then we saw that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Kosovo said it was not under the Kosovo Constitution. There, the Kosovo Albanians showed more integrity than the Serbian authorities because we bypassed the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Nikola Selakovic, as minister of justice, asked the Constitutional Court not to declare itself on all issues, since although it may not be under the Constitution now, it will sometimes be under the Constitution signed in Brussels, so we heard the constitutional court's argument that these are political acts, but political acts that produce legal consequences, which produce legal consequences in terms of the abolition of all Serbian institutions in northern Kosovo. There is no longer the court of the Republic of Serbia, there is now the court of the Republic of Kosovo. No longer has Serbia's flag on the ballot and the coat of arms of Serbia, but the coat of arms of the Republic of Kosovo. Mrs Gojkovic is no longer calling elections for municipalities in Kosovo, but is doing so by the Republic of Kosovo. That's what we got from the EU and we got the ramp in the position of Emmanuel Macron, President of France, where he made it clear to all the candidate countries that the EU will no longer expand, that the EU is going through reforms and that the EU does not know what to do with the rest of the Member States when the UK leaves the EU. That should be enough for us. Now the question arises – how did we come up with the idea of "little Schengen" and how is it that you advocated it even a few years ago, how has this topic just appeared, how is it not your backbone of your campaign before you came to power, before you won the 2016 elections? Nobody slows it down for you, i.e. No one slowed it down for the advances, but the advances in the 2016 election did not say vote for us, so that we would join the Balkan Union with Macedonia and Albania, but were saying something else. And there are completely different messages that come in the campaign and those that come later in policy implementation. That's different. We are now dealing with this in the Assembly, MPs of the ruling majority struggle to explain how brilliant this idea is, historically, for the first time in a hundred years, the Balkan people are uniting and I don't know what. What is the specific interest of the Republic of Serbia in "mini Schengen"? We already have the opportunity to go to BiH and Macedonia and Montenegro with our ID card. We're getting that now so we can go to Albania with a ID. How many Serbian citizens are now going to take advantage of this right and where exactly is this positive shift, in the life of Serbian citizens, that we are going with a personal ticket to Albania? Will Albania become a desirable tourist destination for Serbian citizens? He won't. Are we going to have a market there, so we will have access to a market within the Balkan Union? Well, no, because we saw it from an example of Kosovo Albanians, when they boycotted even the votes from central Serbia, we talked about these voices being contaminated. Imagine what it takes for Albanians to make them buy Serbian products? That's really naive to expect. We will get that Albanians with a ID card can now come to central Serbia, since already the state of Serbia is not in fact controlling the border between Albania and Serbia, but is there someone else. We say, it's a good thing there's going to be an open border, we won't have a limit. Just explain to me, if someone comes to the border and there at the border crossing and they don't need a passport anymore, they need a ID card, what's he got, are those open borders? Well, you know what Schengen is? Schengen is a flow of people, goods and capital, but people without border crossings, and we will still have border crossings, but instead of passports, ID cards will be required. So the Schengen thing has nothing to do with it. What is our perspective in all this, in the Balkan Union? Do we think that we are such a developed economy, that we don't have unemployed people, that we lack so many workers, and now we're going to import labour from Albania? We, as we have convinced ourselves here in Serbia, that our salaries are never higher, that our pensions are never higher, that unemployment is at a historic minimum, if we hear it in public, it doesn't mean that it's real and it's not like that. There's no one who can say we're short of labour and now we're looking for somewhere else. In particular, as calculated by the government of the Republic of Serbia, whoever works an hour a week or an hour a month is employed. It's not exactly what you can hear from messages coming from the Serbian government. We see here on one track, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is hired to do as much as possible, to keep Kosovo within Serbia's borders, that Kosovo does not become a member of Interpol, that Kosovo does not become a member of UNESCO and what is most important, that Kosovo does not become a member of the UN and that plan has achieved exceptional success, because 17 UN member states have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence. We are now in danger, and we have seen this, whatever Aleksandar Vukic or Ana Brnabic says, we have seen from messages from both Matthew Palmer and this Grenel, the US representatives for the Balkans, that Kosovo should also be a member of that Balkan Union, the Republic of Kosovo, not an autonomous province, but a republic of Kosovo. So, at the same table to sit with the president of Serbia, with the president of Macedonia, with the president of Albania and the president of the independent Republic of Kosovo. It would be an effective recognition of the Republic of Kosovo by Serbia and we have seen that this is the main intensity of the "mini Schengen" from the US representatives' mouth for the Balkans. As we wish, on the one hand, to do everything we can to delegate Kosovo in international relations, and on the other hand, we are opening a space for Kosovo to also be a member of the "mini Schengen". And that, not by our will, but by the will of the United States, we have seen it. How can someone expect the Balkan Union to be a better way for these three countries to join the EU together? The possibility does not exist, we see that although the Macedonians were also under pressure, as was Serbia under pressure, they had to sign an agreement with the Greeks from Prespa, which changed their name to Northern Macedonia, because of the opening of these negotiations that the ramp from France and the Netherlands arrived for negotiations with Macedonia. Northern Macedonia and Albania, after all the concessions Macedonia has made on the road. They have made it clear that there is no European perspective for the Western Balkans. We are destined to be the periphery of the EU, to serve as a polygon for experimentation, to serve as a source of cheap labour and in the future, which is a great danger, and this is very weakly spoken of, as parking for migrants. We heard announcements from Austria above all and the government's agreement that some of those migrants who count for their first entry into Europe, when they entered Presevo, could actually return if they did not receive asylum, to Serbia. Are we so economically strong, are we such a state that we can afford such things? We will never become EU members, we will only serve for it. We'll serve to become a buffer zone. All those states that should become an integral part of this "mines Schengen" have recognised Kosovo's independence. Do you think and is it realistic that because of our national interests, and Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia are our national interest number one, will they therefore see us coming out and seeing Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia or will they continue to see it as an independent state? I think they'll still think it's an independent state. One more thing, we saw right in Tirana, because of this "mini Schengen", Alexander Vukic and Milo Djukanovic, it may show that there is no sense or awareness of the situation today in Montenegro. What does the government of the Republic of Serbia do about the issue of Serbian position, the position of the Serb community in Montenegro? Is it more important that this issue be a priority in our relations or potential membership of Montenegro in the "mini Schengen"? It is our opinion that it should be seen first and foremost what will happen to the Serb community in Montenegro, which is completely derailed, which is being hit by the Milo Djukanovic regime. The Neustavish and mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic is currently haunting the Serb community in a way that wants to hijack the assets of the SPC. We talked yesterday about caring for all Serbs, wherever they live, what about Serbs living in Montenegro? They don't live that far. More important is Montenegro's potential membership in "mini Schengen" or SPC status and the rights of Serbian citizens in Montenegro, i.e. citizens of Montenegro of Serbian nationality? It's supposed to be another one, I guess. We have no perspective in the Balkan Union. It won't be a reason for our economy to develop. In one way, we can think of some development in the long run, which is through Euro-Asian integration, because the consequences of the 20-year negotiations and the impact of the European Union in Serbia are visible through the foreign investor subsidy process that the state of Serbia is at a great loss, which discriminates against our businesses in Serbia, which makes our businessmen in our own country uncompetitive and which only makes us a cheap workforce that should serve the profits of investors coming from abroad and what is paid out of Serbia's budget. The only thing we can do is cooperate, make economic integration and military security integration and integration that takes care of our energy security only through an arrangement with the Russian Federation, because we can co-operate with them without political conditions. We will not be able to get an ed memoir from Russia to tell us what we should do, as we have received an ed memoir from the European Union when we wanted to raise exports, to increase exports of products to the Russian Federation at the time of the sanctions of the European Union when our agriculture could replace Spain and Poland in some segments at export to the Russian Federation. Then they blocked it from the European Union, the same afternoon that Minister Ljajic announced it. On the other hand, can we work better with someone who is our sincere and long-standing allies, friends who are doing everything to help us preserve our territorial integrity or sovereignty, or those who are sponsors of Kosovo's independence and who today make us recognize this independence. We have come to the situation that today they have made us enter “mini Shengen, ” and we look forward to it. And here we convince each other how brilliant it is. It's not genius, it's not Serbia's developmental chance, it's not in line with Serbian national interests. We don't hate anyone, we don't think that Albanians or Macedonians are less valuable than some others, but on the long run it doesn't have that much effect on our economy, which is being announced. It's not a brilliant idea, and that's not why we think there's going to be a historic rebirth of our economy in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68043	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the CEFTA agreement was signed at the end of 2006, the SAA was initialled in 2007, and signed in 2008. That's the agreement Djelic signed. He has his shortages in agriculture. There was a flaw in my view, because he was too early to allow it, and somehow we closed it down, selling agricultural land to foreigners. On the other hand, he was taking off customs too quickly and agriculture was potentially the biggest victim there. But we can't break such agreements because of one flaw. To make the CEFTA deal and the SAA work better, we need roads and tracks. They just signed it, and which roads, which railroads were supposed to carry goods, they didn't care. How to effectively translate goods from one part of Europe to another, how to transport goods from our country to other markets, they didn't care. They fired people, the economy didn't exist, so since there was no business activity, those before us thought we didn't need roads, because, for God's sake, if there's no labour force to travel to and from work, if there's no goods to be transported and exported, we don't have to be a transit market, we don't have to take transit fees, toll revenues, etc. The state just died. There are those who are slow. My party's programme was such that I felt that Yugoslavia and in 1989 and 1990, far away, when I created a party together with others, that Yugoslavia needed and possible for all its peoples and republics, that external and internal borders should be non-injurious. There were two conflicts. One wanted to move the internal borders, if it were in our favor, I would support it, and the other who had international support, they wanted to break the external borders. The central state of Tudjman's constitution has fallen apart with 20 million people. If it had joined the EU, Yugoslavia would have been needed and possible for all its citizens and today different songs would have been sung. Yugoslavia was an internal desire for the once defeated peoples of Slovenians and Croats, Yugoslavia was a community between the winners and the winners, where the winners took advantage of the opportunity to outplay the winners, and if there were no winners today, there would be no national states, no Croats, no Slovenians, no Macedonians. It wouldn't be safe, it wouldn't probably be BiH either. But the winners allowed the small nations then to move to the side of the winners, to form through the history of Yugoslavia, to form their national states, and then the defeated rose up against the winners, rebelled and under the co-operation of the outside managed to separate themselves. Thus, the former Yugoslavia became a series of second-class and third-rate protectorates that included those former ones who are now boycotting the National Assembly sessions. Yugoslav peoples were to be divided into the work of the international community and used against each other for the purpose of their national interests. They received and received one at a time in the EU, because that's how they win the market, because before they lose the market of 20 million people, they become easier prey than they have 20 million people. They used us dividedly against each other, and the Serbs went through the worst, because they were the arms of the former Yugoslavia. They were found guilty precisely because, from the work of the international community, and then from democracy, we who freed others, we who always took care of others more than ourselves, so from democracy we saw sanctions, we saw bombings, we saw bombs, we saw uranium, and we saw organs that were poored. The Serbs were not the worst in the conflict and conflict, but as an armature that prevented the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, Serbs had to be blamed for this because they were the strongest obstacle to the aspirations for one state to break down into a series of these small second-class and third-rate protectorates. Now Serbia is rising. The defeated thought they defeated the winner, but the winner rises. The winner began to make roads, began to make railways wanting to participate in the competition. With many parts of the SAA, I disagree, but currently trade with the EU is 70%. So, the biggest surplus our economy makes on the CEFT market. Our biggest surplus is on the CEFT market. Then someone against "Little Shengen" and "Little Shengen" only speeds up what CEF has achieved so far, only speeds up so that trucks don't wait, that people don't wait, that everything speeds up and it gets more profitable than it has ever been, so that there's no extra income left. That is why this agreement should be supported. It's supposed to build infrastructure, because if you want to speed up the goods, it's not just about the highways, it's like coming out of a bottle. If you wait at the border crossing for a few days for the goods to cross over, then everything you've earned on the road you'll lose at the border crossing. That's why we're bringing these agreements, that what we've speeded up on the highways, Corridor 10, what we've accelerated on the rails, what we're going to speed up towards Montenegro, what we're going to speed up towards Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need to regulate that by border crossings. It must wait for that bridge on Drina to finally reach Bosnia and Herzegovina to cross the goods faster, as it is their interest. We, as someone who wants to have a strong economy, need to be aware and try to tell our neighbors that the great ones think they can do without us. Macedonia and Albania have now felt it by the EU. Kicking your ass doesn't mean it's an acceleration of the process towards the EU. It's not the wind in the back. It's just a kick in the ass. I believe that they have partly come to that awareness that the common market of millions of people is a chance not only for us, but for them, that this is a chance for investment. I'm asking, would Russia and China invest in Serbia if they didn't? I don't know, Mr. Orlic, the EU has 500 million people, the CEFt market has one 15 million, now I can't exactly, I don't know Moldova how many there are, but whoever invests, he watches how much the market is. He who comes to someone's market, he sees how many customers there are, how many goods he can produce and carry. I ask, would China and Russia invest in Serbia, not hope that investments in Serbia will reach the European and CEF markets, as they do? This is where the EU opposes. They know that with the amount of goods that we sleep on the EU market, someone within the EU will be able to sell less. Their resistance to investments from China, above all in Serbia, is no surprise to me, but a surprise resistance within Serbia is that someone still doesn't see the chance. Investments are fuel in the economy. It's money invested in the economy. Without investment, the state is like, I've already described, like a car with no gearbox and no engine. A car like that can't go up the hill, it can only go down the hill, it can't pull, there's no fuel, there's no drive. Investments in one country are investments not only in jobs, not only in the production of goods, but in new technologies, new modern training, working populations, etc. Are we cheap labour? Well, compared to some European countries, maybe we are. But as you can live here with our average salary, I'm afraid that in some Western states, given the cost, some of their residents live alike. Unemployment fell 25-26% below 10%. Increased employment leads the employer to pay more to choose quality labour. So, growing employment, being unemployed, must result in an increased labour price. Thus, a balance will be made between the employer and the worker, between capital and labour force, that capital will have to pay more labour, because they do not hire capitalists workers because they love them, but because they need to make them profit. Without investment, and they're impossible without a big market, we can't even get higher wages. It's all connected to each other. That's why we need to support the agreements, so that our goods can go as quickly as possible to our neighbors. I would like it to be a final product, too, that both goods and raw materials of our neighbours can get to our market as quickly as possible, because it speeds up the economy, and thus lets the potential new investors know that it is worth and should invest in that market, that there will always be enough labour force, that there will always be enough quality labour force, that there will always be enough customers to come and invest here. When we make money, and these exes have been living off the man in charge, not the one who's earned it, when we make money, when we make this one bigger cake called GDP, all of us who've been involved in the production of wheat, grinding, mixing, roasting, all of us when we make a bigger cake called GDP, we're all going to have one bigger piece of it than before. So to me, at least I don't understand the resistance to little Schengen, I'm not clear about the resistance to opening up as many border crossings, building new traffic stations, I'm not clear about the resistance to building a highway to Pristina. Should we walk across Albania again? I guess we better take cars, that's normal, that's the way it is in the modern world. So there's means of transport, there's highways, so it's going faster. We're not going to go over the rubber again to freeze and so forth. We won't wait for the allies to help us or help us, it's our turn to team up with those who are still second-rate and third-rate protectorates. Many of our neighbours are not sovereign in the way the sovereign Republic of Serbia is today. It is therefore necessary to encourage their desire to be sovereign, to decide for themselves what is good for their countries, rather than to go for their own opinions that will be natural for them whether from Brussels, Washington, etc., it is irrelevant. Those who have thrown Serbia's sovereignty at its feet, they are now against Schengen, they are now against the EU, they are against the European Parliament, they are against everything. They are only for Gilas and Solak, or they only work for themselves, for their businesses, for the Gilas and the School's businesses. They're trying to prove to us that democracy is a violent coming to power, and that dictatorship is if someone wins the election. One more thing, I must warn you of a phenomenon called the Democratic Party. Look in America, wherever the Democrats lose their elections, there's no more democracy, at least they say it's a dictatorship right now, there's no democracy, there's no freedom of the press, etc. I don't think it's worth getting excited about their actions anymore. There is the saying of Dostoyev: “If you go down the road and stop throwing stones at every dog that barks, you will never reach the finish line. ” I think that those who boycott parliament and boycott elections are not worth standing or rocking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68045	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Minister Alexander Vulin called to say the word. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68046	Short, but perhaps more to look back on what you said last, and I will answer to all MPs in the end. You see, you're right, Dostoevsky is usually right about everything he said and everything he wrote, but I have to say that yesterday the state of Serbia suffered a terrible and insidious blow from a representative of Gilas's party of common sense. So yesterday, Marinika Tepic accused the Serbian state of buying the withdrawal of recognition of the fake state of Kosovo. As we said, what's happening in the theory of ping-pong, her statement is quoted and transmitted everywhere, without her being invited to bedget pacolli. Petrit Selimi, a former official in one of the governments of Pristina, says -- an exclusive news provided by the Serbian opposition, the government of the Republic of Serbia exports corruption to the whole world. We ask that the EU react. So they're not saying that Marinika Tepic passed on Pacolli's statement, but they're taking it as a source of the statement and as evidence that the Serbian state is corrupting other countries. How, the respected voters you're looking at, who are going to hear this, imagine how they're going to feel about countries that are against the whole world, against the great powerful, are going to side with Serbia when they read this. How will they feel when in their countries they start accusing them of taking money from Serbia, that they have sold their political decision? Who will then say more with us, well, let me stand by international law. Well, isn't it better to side with Shipara there no one attacks him when he receives money to recognise Kosovo as a state? How do these people explain tomorrow, how to defend their voices tomorrow when they vote against the membership of the Cypriot Union or Interpol, how when they're going home to attack and speak, you took the money for it, you're corrupt, you sold yourself to Serbia? Here, evidence is the Serbian opposition. The evidence is Serbs. And how they will view us as a people when they have managed to find someone who is against respecting international law and deny the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. How will they view us as a people? You can't find one among the Shiptars. Go find one of the Shipars who will say – Pacolli took the money and paid for Kosovo's recognition. Come on, one to find. Come on, find one single man who will say that in Kosovo and say it's exporting corruption. You won't find any. Well, how do you always find among Serbs? So, how do you find someone like that among the Serbs? We are simply not, we may not be aware at this time, but we will see in the days to come what a terrible blow this is to the government of the Republic of Serbia, what a terrible blow this is to our fight to make the fake state of Kosovo lessen, not to be allowed into the UN. They're supposed to tell someone about honesty and that they don't have black money and that they don't pay whoever they get and wherever they get. We've come now to have to explain it. Petrit Selimi, quoted the Serbian opposition and said exclusively - we are looking for an EU response. They didn't have anyone to tell them until now, here's Marinika Tepic. Here's who's supposed to hit the Republic of Serbia, hit our common beloved country, hit it, humiliate it, put it on a pillar of shame and accuse it of everything others do. Just to get some pat on the shoulder or something more expensive at one of the foreign embassies. Nothing more. You can't explain this. Is there one man in this assembly, is there one man in our country who loves Serbia, who can say that when a country withdraws recognition that it is bad. One. Here, they did it, unfortunately to find it. Until yesterday, I believed it was impossible. We've had a terrible blow, we've experienced it as always. The most terrible blows in Serbia come from Serbia, not from the outside. We gave ammunition and justification to every enemy in Serbia to think of us all the worst, and every potential friend of Serbia to think twice about whether it was worth it personally to side by side with small Serbia, where someone who would always spit at him for helping Serbia. On behalf of Serbian citizens, I apologize to all the countries that have withdrawn recognition. I thank them endlessly for having the courage to side with international law and their public, I guarantee them once again, no money, no corruption. Thank you for taking sides with the international first and sorry that there are those in my people who hate Serbia so much that they are willing to do anything to harm it and help its enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68047	Thank you, Minister Vulin. The right to replica has Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me explain. At the end of 2007, the US Embassy went intensively to Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic. In this case there are deputy WikiLeaks, Jennifer Bras promised that if Albanians postpone the declaration of independence until after the election of Boris Tadic as president of the Republic of Serbia, they would not cross the US red lines. So they promised co-operation. In 2008, in February of the month, Boris Tadic first took an oath, I think on February 14th, or something like that, Albanians declared independence only a few days after that, so America has fulfilled its part of the deal. The second part of the deal, then the government, Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, Jeremic, who made a promise in favour of Boris Tadic, set out to keep it. They asked the International Court of Justice to participate in the construction of a wild state of Kosovo and Metohija precisely because they had to make amends for a favor during the elections. After that, negotiations were transferred from the UN to the EU and put border crossings on Brnjak and Jarinje. So, as power, they have fulfilled their share of obligations but now, as opposition to Marinika Tepic, says what Dragan Djilas promised Jennifer Bras, thus expressing an unprecedented hatred for the Russian Federation and said that he could especially not stand Ambassador Konuzin, who was the Russian Federation's ambassador to the Republic of Serbia at the time. So, Mr. Minister, what they're doing today is a promise they made as a government, and now as an opposition, they're trying to help those who are trying outside to realise the interest of the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija, they're trying to help them inside because they promised not to cross those American red lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68049	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68050	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the responsibilities of the National Assembly is also confirming agreements concluded between Serbia and other countries. Today, we have an agreement between the government of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojana, signed on 16 December this year. A common border crossing will be built on Serbia's territory in the Presevo municipality of Miratovac, and the cost will be borne by the Norwegian government through support of a project to develop the Western Balkans of about two and a half million euros. By ratifying this agreement, Serbia will meet its international obligations, and the SNS parliamentary group will support this proposal in a voting day. One more thing I want to talk about affirmatively is so-called. a small Schengen that implies co-operation between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. It is actually an initiative to remove barriers to freedom of flow of goods, services, capital and people between these countries. Serbia will most correspond to this agreement because we have potential, we will be able to sell more goods and services, and in human resources we are ahead of countries in the region. Therefore, the transport of goods and services is facilitated. It has been said that there will be more tape at the crossings so that companies can cross the borders more easily and faster. The idea is to form a single labour market, which will mean easier movement and employment of people, and all of which leads us to progress in the region's economy. We can also talk about the development of tourism and stronger co-operation of emergency units. So, only positive things are at stake. We are talking about progress and results in all areas that will be of great importance to our country. The European Commission is ready to define 1.2 billion dinars for countries in the region, to implement the agreements reached and this information also encourages because this means the possibility of a full implementation of agreements between countries involved in small Schengen. In any case, the merger of countries is only for the purpose of progress and strengthening. The document will also have a positive impact on the development of each country individually and on the development of the region, which will certainly create better conditions for the future of citizens. The question arises what will in practice mean “little Schengen, ” or the application of these agreements? For example, when particularly veterinary and phytosanitary inspections are introduced at the crossings, and when the faster movement of the goods truck is possible, savings will be, and will deal with it, above all, the World Bank and at these meetings, representatives of the World Bank said that only these measures are expected to save as much as 120m euros. Of course, Serbia will save you, too. Furthermore, a 20-hour working hours for inspection services are scheduled to be present. We have a unique package of documentation required for the transit of goods. It won't take much paper to cross the border. We've got citizens' trips to all three countries with only IDs. There is a question of what it means for Serbian citizens, how many citizens will be able to use the right to go to Albania only with a ID card? Why don't we give the citizens the opportunity to choose and decide, and if they decide to go to Albania, let's just do it with a personal card and stop them from doing what they want. Then we have the possibility for foreigners to enter all countries without additional visas, which will increase the number of tourists and will affect the planning of joint tourist offers. We will also be able to talk about exchanging students, creating opportunities for joint projects by these countries, further strengthening cross-border co-operation in the fight against terrorism and crime, defining common rules in different forms, to speed up the co-operation of three countries. I would also like to add, and in this regard, the importance of the Nis-Medare-Pristina highway, which testifies to further investment in infrastructure, but on the other hand testifys that Serbia is willing to work with other countries. In addition to connecting about half a million citizens living in Nisavska, Toplic and Pirot County, this highway will allow Serbia to exit to the port of Durres, which will further facilitate the trade of countries in the region. Serbian citizens are in the elections that gave both Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party the legitimacy to make decisions concerning Serbia, and these are decisions that are very important. Everyone has the right to believe that he likes or dislikes that we are seeking to join the EU, but I don't see why anything would be a problem to establish something that will be good for Serbia, such as the tendency to be similar in everything to the most developed countries of Europe and the world. All of what we are talking about today comes under criticism from the Alliance for Serbia leaders who, some of them were once in power but of course they did not create conditions for Serbia to be better, to develop economies and businesses. We see both Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Đilas today think it is better to invest in agriculture and spas in Toplička County than in the highway or in small Shengen. I don't remember the government investing in anything in that part of Serbia or agriculture or in any other area until 2012. Their mouths were full until 2012 of balanced regional development. But instead of the implemented projects, we from that part of Serbia saw nothing. Instead, in southern Serbia, factories were sold for depravity, privatised, out-of-work jobs, and living standards collapsed. Today, at the head of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have the opportunity, and we see that this is done to practically develop every and every farthest and smallest part of Serbia. Today, the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia of course are attacking everything that is good for Serbia. Citizens see that they have completely lost the political compass, that they are ready to attack every one, including the best idea and the best proposal just because it comes from Alexander Vukic and SNS. Today, everyone is in their way, and we from the SNS are in their way, and suddenly both European Parliamentarians and international officials and foreign investors do not pass a practical day so that they do not attack anyone or any open letter or any official statement. On the other hand, we have a chance to talk about this Agreement today, we have the opportunity to talk about the Nis-Merdare highway – Pristina and, in general, we have the opportunity to talk about 350km of new highways built, we have the opportunity to talk about opening works on the Moravia Corridor, which we talked about last week or two weeks ago, we have the opportunity to say that we can build a highway that will have 11 loops, 23 overpasses, 78 bridges, that will regulate the flood defense system, which will provide citizens with 112km of safe and safe travel. By 2012, we didn't have a chance to talk about these things. Also, what has been announced, half this year amounts to 14 billion euros to be invested in various infrastructure projects. These plans will mean co-operation with many other countries, so they will co-operate with China as well. Projects worth five billion euros are planned with China. We have a railway line through Serbia to Macedonia, worth about 600m euros. We have co-operation with Russia. With Russia, we will work on a 150m-euro railway dispatch centre and so on. So what we have shown as a state is that the fiscal consolidation measures that Alexander Vukic was only prepared to do, although they were very unpopular in the people, so the fiscal consolidation measures gave results and that with successful economic reforms we have created conditions for the completion of new infrastructure projects, such as roads, railways, gasification, new factories, investment in each part of Serbia. We are now in a period where we can also talk about opening new scientific and technological parks across Serbia where young people will be hired to themselves, but also give the state a chance to stay here with their families and with their friends. All that I mentioned is closely connected, parts of Serbia join together on new roads, we also connect with countries in the region. We'll cooperate with everyone. With countries in the region, we will strive to be like the most modern countries in Europe, but we will work together with both Russia and China. On our side is the overall progress that leaves no doubt that citizens have a job, that they have a secure salary, that they have a safe pension, that they have a chance to make progress, along with the state that will allow them to do so. On our side are work, results and a better future. And on the side of the Alliance for Serbia are lies, failed politics, affairs and destruction which, unfortunately, is also directed to the state. The difference is very clear and their uncertainty is obvious. Once again, I would like to say in the end that the SNS parliamentary group will also support this proposal as a form of support for Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government for all the quality solutions they offer to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68051	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, we are moving to the list, according to the order of MPs, in a single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miretovac and Lojana. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68052	Ladies and gentlemen, dearly present, this is one of my joyous moments in the National Assembly, where I have just had the opportunity to express my gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who has heard of a request that we have repeatedly pointed out here in the National Assembly, either in the form of a discussion, or in the form of questions that we have asked the Government, which was precisely about this border crossing between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, in the area of Presevo, so the Miratovac-Lojani crossing. We are definitely in a position to open the country in this place, on this side, and to do what is the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all other state bodies, that is to make it easier for citizens to live their lives, to facilitate their communication, especially as this point was one of the most problematic in terms of communication, because citizens of this area on both sides of the border had to circle up to 60 kilometers to go to their relatives in the neighbouring village located on the other side of the border. I would also like to thank the President of Presevo Municipality, Mr Sciprim Arifi, who acted from the position of local self-government in this direction and finally citizens on both sides of the border can be very pleased, and certainly my gratitude goes to the authorities of the state of Northern Macedonia, who had hearing. All of this is, in fact, part of the country's overall political aspirations towards further development of relations in the region with regard to the creation of a society and countries that have the capacity to open up, they have a vision of development and can expect serious development. Otherwise, any closure leads to decadence, leads to destruction, leads to the exclusion of the possibility of mutual insemination. In that regard, all of what's done with so-called. The small or Balkan Schengen, regardless of certain ambiguities, is a very significant step. And I think that this country has no reason, nor its citizens, nor politicians to worry about it, because whoever has what to offer, is in his interest to open up to others. So, here, in fact, this is the moment where we have confirmation of the purpose of the work of the MPs representing the citizens of the field, who do not forget those citizens who are out there on the peripheries of the country and, in fact, the moment we reach consciousness and action in spirit and consciousness, that all citizens of this country are equally important to us, whatever nation and religion they belong to. But also, wherever they are in Belgrade or some other major centre, on the periphery, in Presevo or Sandzak, east or west, then it will be exactly what this country needs and will lead to an atmosphere and ambience in which all citizens will feel exactly the same and in which all citizens will see this country as their own country, apart from being our own, or their own country. I will remind this occasion of the need to open the country to Montenegro at another very sensitive point, which is the village of Djerekara, the municipality of Tutin, according to the municipality of Petnjica, on the one hand we have a Cave, on our side and on the other side we have Bihor, therefore, the same point where citizens, in order to visit their relatives and friends in the neighbouring village, must return to the crossings of Meh's cross, surround the Rogaje, Berana, and Petnja, so get to, say, the points that are only a few kilometers away, due to lack of border crossing. But here, today, I am getting my optimism back, given this decision, that is, this agreement, which we are confirming here today, and I believe that the government will have the capacity to put this into important points as soon as possible and actually make this step with Montenegro, as well as everyone else who is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68053	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. He's not there. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68054	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the agreements that are very important, not just for individuals, citizens, because it will relax the border crossings themselves. This is also very important because of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, as this will allow far faster, simpler and more functional traffic. Thus, the economy of the Republic of Serbia will be in a better position than it has ever been. Of course, the waste of time at every border crossing carried certain means, burdened our products, burdened transport. This is a good move towards relaxing the functioning of the border crossings themselves, and not only our businessmen, but also transport companies across Europe will receive additional stimuli to use the route through Serbia, which is closest. Now it's both the fastest and the most functional and safest, in greater volume than they've ever used. Of course, it affects all of this through improving the position of economy and economy, affecting the stability of the state, affecting the greater revenues that this country will make, the increased budget, and thus the resources will be able to separate for those things that we want to bring to a place that we have determined and defined as soon as possible. Yesterday we discussed the National Defence Strategy, the National Security Strategy, the position of the military. We talked earlier about the position of the MUP, their organization, their needs. Any funds that come through those that are planned will certainly contribute, of course, to be expected to be used precisely in the direction of improving health care, education, material status of members of the military security forces, raising security and security in the Republic of Serbia, and in no way will the realisation of these agreements compromise the control and control of borders both in the exit direction and in the input direction towards Serbia, because it will open the space to devote a lot more time to something, it seems to me, which has been very difficult in the right way and quite quickly and adequately realised, and these are health control, phytosanitary protection and all that can affect the life of an ordinary citizen in the Republic of Serbia. For all these reasons, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will also vote for this legislative project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68055	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68056	Thank you. As you have heard, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are pleased with any proposal that goes in favour of citizens, opening borders and facilitating the smooth flow of people and goods, especially in those areas that have been cut apart by life-threatening border crossings, which have not existed in the past. As we care about this border crossing, the citizens of Presevo also often came to us with a request to open another Cer-Sopot border crossing, which once seemed to me, until 1996, and existed and where there is an entire infrastructure, so that this transition would make the life of ordinary people much easier. On the other hand, these border crossings that cross the border between Serbia and Montenegro in Sandzak are really necessary to update and open as soon as possible, for a number of reasons, and one is concrete. For example, in that area of Bihor and the Cave, people have lived for centuries, even people on one side of the border have properties on the other side of the border. For example, cavemen have properties on Bihor or from Bihor on the Cave, so very often when they want to process their land or to transport cattle across that border crossing, they have problems. There were even some comic situations when, for example, during the summer, cattle were sent to the pasture from Bihora to the Cave, so some of these cows were abducted, then the problem was to introduce that calf, because, now it belongs, was born in Serbia and his mother is from Montenegro. So there was a big problem here. For example, newspaper articles have been written about this, and judicial proceedings have been conducted, whose calf is it, whose passport is to be held? That is why it is really important to open these border crossings, to enable and facilitate the life of an ordinary man, people who process the earth and who have a great need to make it easier for them. This theme around Schengen is extremely important and we also feel that we strongly support it. On this occasion, I will use this position to invite both Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the country of origin of Bosniaks, to engage in this project and to facilitate all members of Bosniak nationality living in the region and business and any other kind of connection and connection, given that we have these administrative and other difficulties. We believe that this is the way so that all the peoples of the Balkans can join together more specifically and strengthen their economic, cultural and other connections further. Since Serbia, Albania, Macedonia has already joined it, I think that it is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be part of this Schengen, so that in these economic and other connections we all have more benefits, to strengthen our trust in each other, to strengthen our respect for each other, to erase those things that separate us, and to re-emerge with these business and other engagements, and to build on sound foundations a bright future for generations to come, because that is the only way we can heal the entire area of the Balkans and only in such a way that we can build a future in which every citizen of these countries will have their own position, have our place and have the opportunity to build their own identity and brand in this unity, business, cultural, national, without jeopardizing anyone and without jeopardizing ourselves in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68057	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68058	Just for a little while. As you know, between Serbia and Montenegro, at the beginning of this year, still the current year, the border traffic agreement with Montenegro came into effect. The residents of the border area have the opportunity to extract, as you know, appropriate documents that allow them to cross not only at the official border crossing, but at certain places where they can also cross the border crossing. They can normally transport the harvest. You know what it looks like. With cattle, the problem is, you know, because of the disease, and that's the thing neither country allows, because you have to control the transport, or the transport of live cattle because of the possibility of carrying various diseases. It's a special solution. Also, as you know, in these places you don't care about working hours, there's no working hours, just so people... What, now that he's going, he's doing the summer there, now he needs to think about whether he'll be able to finish. I'm a peasant child, and I know what it's like to go after it before it rains, and you don't care, it's just so it doesn't rain, it doesn't destroy what's gonna be food for cattle all winter. Take care of that, too. Will there be more or less crossings? It's something that both governments, both states, have to discuss, to find economic justification. Sometimes, to be fair, you also step aside from economic justification because you need to help people, and it's not something that's outrageous and that's supposed to be done, but it has to be an agreement between the two sides, so there's always good will by the MUP, and there's always space, as you see, and the relevant agreements are concluded. It is in our interest that our citizens can travel as freely as possible, move, trade, work, identify any specificity. Of course, our voters also know that every opening of a customs, or border crossing leads to serious costs. There are now some people from customs, from the phytosanitary, from various other services involved in crossing the border. It's got to be a mutual thing, in the end line. We must agree whether we are on our side, the Montenegrin side, but as you can see from this practice, we are here for our citizens and we are here to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68059	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The right to replica has Mr. Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68060	I thank you, dear ministers, for this border crossing at Djerekar there is an initiative between the municipalities of Tutin and Petnica. It's actually one of the natural pathways that has been a bond between these two ends for centuries. You were important on these natural roads, let's say, to open up this kind of border crossing, and on the other hand, it's safer and more useful. We had a situation, because it's usually roads where some gray jobs are being done, and we've even had one of the terrible events in the past, that police officers in conflict with young men in the area have killed a young man. This case isn't solved today. For these security and all other reasons, on these natural roads it would be very good, and since there is an initiative both sides. We encourage and support the readiness of the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to take a thorough approach to this problem, in order to facilitate the daily communication of citizens between the two sides. Of course, it would be good to find some way for those who do agricultural work, at least for them and their good, whether it's cattle or some other, to find an expedient environment so that all of the natural resources of that area can be made easier, easier, easier, easier to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68061	Thank you. Now the word is Marian Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68062	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like with Montenegro that your crossings are more modern, wider and that we get to their market faster and they get to ours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was already saying that the former Yugoslavia, which the international community felt was no longer necessary, no longer possible, was a community of winners and defeated. I have a particularly difficult problem with Montenegro. So, Montenegro has introduced its kingdom, as Serbia has also brought its kingdom into that first Yugoslavia, that is, the Serb community, Croats and Slovenians, and that is why it is difficult for me. Milo Djukanovic also started kidnapping from God. As he took away from the Serbs and the people, he now began to steal from God and Orthodoxy. He's trying to round up a fake national identity, etc., but they have no reason to hate us. Slovenians, their countries wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for the victory of the Serb army. Neither would Croatia if it hadn't been for the victory of the Serb army from 1914 to 1918. There would be no Bosnia and Herzegovina, there would be no Macedonia, there would be no reason to hate us. Serbs have always freed others and are now liberating them from being second-rate, third-rate protectorates, to be on their own, under allegations. Ladies and gentlemen, after Slovenians, they hate us more, apparently, Macedonians. After the Macedonians, we are more hated by Croats. After the Croats, we are more hated by the Kosovo Albanians, and the most hated by montenegrins or Milogores, call them whatever you want. So, by creating this false identity, by dipping Serbs into charity, those who have been drowned most hate those of whom they have formed. I have to remind Milo Djukanovic, who is calling for an occupation from Serbia, and now because of that occupation he wants to kidnap the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, is the decision of the Podgorica Assembly to give up statehood in the new Kingdom's art. That's what Serbia did, but what Milo Djukanovic won't say, the Podgorica Assembly made a decision on behalf of Montenegro with territory from 1914, and the coast of Montenegro was from Ulcinj to Sutomor. Right, Mr. Martinovic? So Boka Kotorska made a special decision to join the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians by joining Serbia, not before the Kingdom of Montenegro. The Podgorica Assembly, if it denies it, if it denies all those decisions, then it denies the territory, denies Boka Kotorska. Then Boka Kotorska is not his. I don't understand why such hatred for someone who has freed part of the territory that has now passed on to Montenegro? There is no reason to take the property of the Orthodox Church, there is no reason for so much hatred for the liberators that Milo Djukanovic and a group of militants now show around him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68063	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Now the word has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to hear some MPs think properly, but the problem is that their thinking disagrees with the views of the government they support. The point we are discussing today is in fact another confirmation that Serbia continues to give power in Serbia, primarily the regime has no idea what and how and how, but there is absolutely everything marketing here. You haven't established any national interests, you haven't established any national strategy, you don't make any moves planically, it's all done from today to tomorrow. It's all marketing, so if you run out of ideas, the first one that comes to your mind, whatever it is, you go into realisation, you go into promises, and you know, whatever it is, whatever it is later, you're going to replace that one deception with another, third, fifth, tenth, and so you rule, here, but to God, for the eighth year. You're telling us that it's extremely good that they open up, that these border crossings, as you say, are liberating unnecessary papers, that they will now travel easier, that our economy will now flourish. I guess we'll be exporting tomatoes to the Macedonians, not to us. But these are all actually empty words. I would like you, Mr. Vulin, to show us some official document and official analysis done by the Ministry of Defence regarding the possible implementation of this agreement and the possible establishment of the "mini Schengen", to see that the possible establishment of the "mini Schengen" will affect security in Serbia. Here, show us right now and let's see how many of these studies you've done and tell us how many other ministries have done similar studies. If you were serious people and you were serious about the regime, you would, for a long time, analyze all possible consequences of the conclusion of certain agreements, and then eventually access their conclusion and promotion. You proceeded to where the yellow ones left off. Not only did you inherit the personnel, you inherited their ideology, and as they, like the Krauts - tra-la-la repeat the story, the empty story of that bright European future, so do you. The only problem is that in the year 2020 and the full 20 years since the five-octobar revolution bulldozer, you are as far away from the EU today as you were 20 years ago. This speaks not only of the inability of all pro-European regimes that have destroyed Serbia since 2000, but also of the fact that this so-called. Europe doesn't want to. And the president of Serbia said -- everything and to meet all the conditions is not certain that Serbia would be a member in 2025, tomorrow to meet all the conditions and of course we would not be and will not be in 2035, and it is not at all problematic, thank God that we will not, but the problem is that you persistently act on the ultimatums and the dictatorship that comes from the EU. That this colourful lie is near, that this carrot is near, and you and Europe are no longer waving that carrot, and you seem to have more and more enthusiasm and that you are becoming more and more serviceable as one representative of the EU arrives to you, you are killing yourself here who will sooner meet their conditions. You change laws, you change REM members, you delay how you say the date of the election. The opposite of the constitution and the law may have been delayed and local elections in several municipalities in Serbia. Maybe that's why you don't question the KIM elections in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. However, as other ideas disappear, you say "mini Schengen". How many Serbs do you think, Mr. Vulin, when the borders are opened, will hurry to Albania or KIM, nice on the bus and the road to Pristina or Tirana, to find work there and find happiness for themselves and their family? How many of these do you think they'll be? Alexander Vulin throws. A little louder, Minister, I can't hear you. You've got to make it a little louder. You'll be back later? Okay. It's similar with the store. You know, as goods from Serbia are not bought in Croatia just because they are from Serbia and there is no need to run a special campaign because they have this sick hatred for the Serbian people, you know our people say -- a storm worse than Serbs and so it will be similar with this, worse than Turks, a pardon, so it will be if "mini Schengen" is established. The other thing is, we're a member of CEFTE, Mr. Vulin. Can you, as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, answer one simple question? Ana Brnabic, the prime minister of the government, promised Serbian citizens to open proceedings before the CEFTA arbitration court for introducing Pristina unilaterally violating the provisions of the CEFTA agreement, which, on behalf of KIM, signed a 100% fee and promised Ana Brnabic to launch a dispute before the CEFTA arbitration court. Is that done, Mr. Woolin, or isn't it? I also asked a parliamentary question in writing, asked several ministers, Anna Brnabic we didn't see, I haven't had a chance to ask her for a long time, however, there is no answer. Tell the citizens of Serbia, you are obliged to do so, whether such a request is filed or not, because the question is raised, if under the CEFTA agreement where Serbia is a member, you are unable to protect the interests of the Serbian economy, and there is a significant decrease in the placement of products from central Serbia on KIM territory, why do you think you will be able to protect the interests of the central Serbian economy under any agreement and beyond, anything that is in the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people is not being applied. You boasted that you had fulfilled all Serbia's obligations under the Brussels Agreements, and you were crouching, you say, they were only one, so none of them have fulfilled already here, for six years. Whether it is commendable and why it is not one of the conditions for continuing negotiations. You said in your own time if the military forces are formed down there, the Kosovo army, as they call it, there will be no negotiations, and that condition you have now forgotten. Now they're just asking to withdraw their taxes. Why aren't you looking for a union of Serb municipalities? Not because it will have some influence, if it happens to be formed, not because it will have some significance, but because the Cypriot side will never do so, and that is how to stop those negotiations that can't do Serbia any good. You spoke yesterday, Mr. Vulin about the national defence strategy and say for the first time the state of Serbia has committed itself to protecting Serbs no matter where they live, to protect freedom of religion. I don't know if anyone has informed you, a good associate of your regime Milo Djukanovic, contrary to all laws and civilizational norms, is kidnapping the property of the SPC in Montenegro, kidnapping property rights. Vukic says – whatever we say would be mixing into the internal affairs of another country, even when the right of property is taken, when the monasteries are taken away, when the sacred things are taken away. Will they kidnap St. Vasili's Bridges as well? Could it also be possible by law and could in any way provoke someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia to at least raise their voice and show that the Serbs in Montenegro are not alone. You, Mr. Vulin, are talking about a national defence strategy and 82 days in a pioneer park strike, protest, seek out their rights as wartime disabled and veterans of past wars. What strategy, if we don't respect the military's disabled and veterans? How many times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed the LGBT population, it is important that you regulated their alleged, rights, important that you amnested deserters and you and your predecessors, but that is why you are not interested in veterans and military disableds. Why? Because they might be too decent for your taste. Because they didn't block downtown Belgrade streets to get subsidies and solve their problem. You are not used to someone in a decent and civilized way patiently and persistently expressing their position and fighting for their rights, and they are obviously determined to do so until someone in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the regime becomes a disgrace, and until he says, here we will move a little bit and try to listen to these people and respect the rights they are seeking. You know, don't think, we know why he's silent about both wartime military disableds and the kidnapping of SPC property in Montenegro. Did Alexander Vucic, who was given the highest SPC medal, not to be the first to react for a working love of the church, but there are also certain links that are older, such as those from the Paris RIC, when Toma Nikolic, Aleksandar Vucic, Stanko Subotić Cane frog, the king of the tobacco mafia and Milo Djukanovic met by chance. In my opinion, that's the only reason he's not responding, and that's your duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68065	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Now the word has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68066	I thank the chairman. The previous speaker forgot to mention Milovan Brkic from "Tabloid" when he listed all of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 359th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work, for which they receive their salary neatly. In this way they send a clear message of what their relationship to the function they perform is, what their relationship to the National Assembly is, but also to the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, just when you think that some of them from this Gilas alliance have reached their maximum in their hatred of their own country, towards citizens, towards Serbia, just when you think that they can't do more than that, that they've reached maximum in trying to do both political and economic and moral damage, they've denied us and in doing so, I don't mean just "Krusik" and Valjevo, and there's enormous damage done both by moral and political and economical, but they definitely outdone themselves in that sense yesterday. They've reached the top, and they can be said to have hit the bottom, but in a moral sense, they've hit the bottom. Mr. Secretary, I had to listen to the press conference of a certain marine three times yesterday with an unconfirmed last name, because I couldn't believe what I was listening to. I didn't want to believe that it is possible in the middle of Serbia that someone in the middle of Belgrade, that someone here in the National Assembly is making such impoverished claims, is making such monstrous slanders at the expense of the Serbian state, at the expense of Serbian citizens and at the expense of leadership. I didn't want to believe it was possible for someone in the middle of Serbia to lead such a monstrous campaign against Serbia, but also against Serbian national interests. I would understand, Mr. Minister, that it came from Kurti, Pacolli or anyone in Pristina. I could even understand that it came from some different Izetbegovic from Sarajevo, I could understand that it came from Zagreb. There is currently a competition on the part of who hates Serbia and Serbia's national interests more. I could even understand the ministers that it came from Milo Djukanovic, who is kidnapping these days and the Serbian church and the Serb sanctity and everything that previous speaker Marijan Risticevic was talking about. I could understand all that, we're used to it from them, but this degree of hatred for our own country, according to my own citizens, I can't explain it. So either it's pathology, pure pathology, pure hatred out of perversion or I don't know, I can't explain it, or maybe it's Mrs. Marinika with an undefined last name, maybe she's working for someone's interests. I am now asking: is Marinika Tepic aware, or whatever her last name is, is she aware of how much damage she has done to Serbia? Is she aware of the consequences of what she claimed? Is she aware of the political damage she has done to countries that have withdrawn the recognition of the false state of Kosovo? And, finally, for whose interests is Marinika Tepic, when is she ready to make such monstrous claims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68067	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a minister named Vulin. Nemanja Sarovic also called, although I don't see the basis. It's not you. I listen very closely to every word. The word is Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68068	I am taking advantage of the opportunity I am behind the assembly pay phone, to inform the citizens of Serbia that the return of the 63rd paratroopers to the ranking brigade and 72nd for special operations in the ranking brigades, that the Shiptari also appeared. Badžet Pacolli, the same one whose Marinika Tepic, provides space and provides an opportunity to speak, has now attacked the government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically me, because I, he says, am resurrecting criminal war brigades. Brigades that committed crimes in BiH, brigades that committed crimes on KIM, criminal brigades. I use this opportunity, forgive the honourable MPs, if I'm talking about something that's not on the subject, you can say that this is an abuse, but I simply felt the need to once again stand in the protection of all our members, of all our fighters, of all those who have defended this country, especially members of the 63rd Parachure and 72nd Special Brigades for Special Facts, to confirm once again how much our country is committed to defending those who have defended it. As soon as you see who is attacking you for something, you know that you have done something great and good for the Serbian people, that you have done good and great for the Serbian army. I also had a meeting this morning with representatives of certain fighting associations that are now gathering former members and 63nd and 72nd, who are truly proud that their country has finally risen and that she knew what will be waiting for her, but she did so and brought these famous units back to the rank brigades as it belongs to them. We expect further attacks, we expect to be attacked, as we immediately saw from both our citizens and the citizens of Serbia who immediately found ways to attack their country for it, but we know we're doing the right thing. This is how the Army of Serbia is guarded, and thus strengthens Serbia's army and there is no Pacolli, Tepic or anyone else, whoever attacks us for whom we will stop fighting to strengthen Serbia's military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68069	Thank you, Minister Vulin. The right to replica has Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, I was talking about the state of relations with Montenegro. The kidnapping of the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church is not the result of the neglect of Serbian leadership, nor is it a rematch for some decisions. It is primarily an attempt to provoke Serbia, to react prematurely and excessively and to try to end Milo Djukanovic's rounding up his national identity, so-called. Milogori or as they are already called, Montegrini, so it is his attempt, on the one hand, to provoke to raise tensions etc., because he is constantly sailing on how he saves, I don't know, Montenegro, saves space from Milosevic, so now he saves from Russian influence that goes through Serbia etc. It is a nonstop attempt by him to have sympathy in the West and some money and some decisions in favour of him and now he's trying to get close to the EU, here he is fighting against Russian influence, etc. to do something over the line that doesn't follow him. It's that try. But you know that famous saying, he says -- a storm worse than Turks, and one MP who gets up here for 12 hours, usually gets up at half past 12, comes in so subdued, as if he's sleeping by the wet wall, he said amazingly today, says -- a turkey worse than a Serb. I think it's the most severe violation of the national Serb dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68071	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68072	I think it's clear now, Mr. Marinkovic, that I have the right to a replica, Mr. Marinkovic mentioned me. I, in fact, made a lapus and instead – a turkey worse than Turks, said – a turkey worse than a Serb. It is, according to Marijan Risticevic, an insult to Serbs, because Marijan Risticevic, I guess, claims that the posters are better than the Serbs. Is that what you're saying, Mr. Risticevic? If that's offensive, that lapus, then it turns out the turkeys are better than the Serbs. Of course they are not, and you would be better off to watch when you challenge the replicas, as well as Mr Markovic, who corrects me, speaking of a historic meeting in Ric, attended by Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, Stanko Subotić Cane Žabac, Milo Djukanovic, and he says that Milovan Brkic was there. No, it was Maric. Maric was, you got Mr. Markovic mixed up, you and the girl were on that board, so you didn't do much politics at the time. As for Mr. Secretary, I'm glad Mr. Wolin that you admitted that you didn't have any documents and no analysis that did not do the Ministry of Defense in order to make possible access to that so-called. "mini Schengen" has affected Serbia's security. If that's what you're re-forming the 63rd Parachure and the 72nd Special Facts Brigade, if that's the answer, Mr. Vulin, then it's an honor. So these are the units that are married to fame, which are legendary, and we from the SRS welcome such moves. They will contribute to raising national awareness, but it is not enough just to return units, it should also be for people who have bled in those units, and for 82 days strike in the pioneer park, they should also look at them and listen to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68073	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. The Rules of Procedure first have Marijan Rističević and Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, section 103, paragraphs 7 and 8, but I do not insist on that decision being applied. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of us who come to the Assembly pass by Emperor Dushan and the leader of Karajord, all of us who pass. He says the leader of Karadjorje like this, is that so Mr. Martinovic, Emperor Dusan holds some topus, but he also holds the law, so he keeps it in writing, there was also this proverb with Negos, probably that he has written from some of the files of Emperor Dusan, according to a poster worse than Turks. When someone says - a prostitute is worse than a Serb, he replaced the Serbs with a national identity. Karadjorje's head, for example, lost so that it wouldn't happen, raised his uprising so that the Serbs wouldn't be Turks. When an MP who comes here with a dream, give him coffee, sugar, give him something to wake up. He wasn't called by any Mr. Marinkovic, no one called him, he's seeing something. He sees Turks from Serbs. Karadjorge lost his head, so Turkey filled up, sent to Stambol to prevent Serbs from being Turks. When someone equates the Serbs with the Turks, for me, it's as a farmer, as a peasant, as a leader of the Karadjorje, as a peasant uprising, etc., as a leader of a peasant army who fought for freedom of national identity for its property, who didn't hate those in front of her, but loved those above her, loved her identity. For me it was an unprecedented insult, but when you travel from Vranj and when you mix Prohor Pchinski with another crossing, etc., when you come dreamy, let's forgive him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68075	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Alexander Markovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68076	Thank you, Chairman. Many members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated. Let's start with article 107. You've missed your chance just before to ask the previous speaker by which member of the Rules of Procedure appears. So he didn't list a member when he advertised the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to, as he says in the historic meeting, some meeting in some kind of Ric, I actually wanted to point out that the previous speaker read it from that magazine, "Tabloid", written by Milovan Brkic. So that's the source of information from the previous speaker. Whenever he has nothing to say, he says that Tabloid has written about a meeting in Ric in his day. He should not remember that period and should not mention it, because it was a period when he sincerely wanted to join the SNS. I don't know why it didn't come to that, which is why he didn't do what he wanted. Now that we're on that subject and that constant grudge against my ex-girlfriend's account, this isn't the first time we've heard her talk about my ex-girlfriend and how I've spent time with my ex-girlfriend. You know how, Chairman, someone spends time with a girl, someone spends time with a guy. So it's all about affinity. And let me tell you right now, I don't mind, each one of you, by his own affinity, shall adapt in that sense. But what's more serious than that, when he complains about the position of the Serb people in Montenegro and the threat of the Serb people in Montenegro, you know that, it's a little hypocritical when someone who directly cooperates with Marko Bastic and today cooperates with Mark Bastic in the municipality of Stari Grad, who is confidently known to be an exponent of this very Montenegrin regime, precisely this hateful regime of Mil's, and then it's extremely hypocritical that they complain over the position of the Serb people in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68077	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Milorad Mircic has a word. Please, let me tell you something, I let go and you all kind of abused the Rules of Procedure. I'm creeping out that we're talking about each other's wives, family, mother, fathers, it's not okay, it's not serious, it's not correct. You've all kind of abused, from the chases, we're talking about everything, just not the subject, to the private lives of the MPs of the people. I think we should really have one level of correctness, of gentlemanship between ourselves and respect for the citizens. It really doesn't make sense. It really doesn't lead anywhere. Here, I let it all go, you all kind of abused the Rules of Procedure and the pay phone, and I think I've been correct there. Please, colleague Sarovic, I am particularly correct to you. Let's let my colleague Mircic keep talking. Thank you for understanding. Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68078	First of all, I have no understanding of this, Marinkovic, how you put it out as if you were giving it to someone or taking it away. It's regulated by the Rules of Procedure. If any MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged by the same Rules of Procedure to give him your word, not here to make some very strange selection. You are now giving to me who, according to the list of speakers, have the right to speak, not to give to MP Sarovic who advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. He can't do that, so you're privatizing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68079	I'll explain later, keep talking. I tried to explain, but it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68080	I always doubted what was not exposed to the public's eyes so it could be manipulated. Here, a little while ago we heard even from colleagues Markovic that you worship your colleagues, I suppose, Sarovic, that it's better to have a girlfriend than a boyfriend. Depending on what you're in that relationship, colleague Markovic, that's how you define it. That's the point. If a colleague of Sarovic is looking for the Rules of Procedure to answer, why don't you give it to him, Mr. Marinkovic? You are at least a man who is tolerated, you respect the Rules of Procedure, fortunately one of the few vice-presidents who respects the Rules of Procedure, so please, if possible, give your colleague Sarovic or any colleague who has advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's strange is that when recently any proposal from the government to the MPs, any criticism referred to on behalf of the proposal immediately comes across a violent reaction from the ruling coalition. Those with political experience know it's actually a reflection of some anxiety. It's not just that it's bad suggestions, it's nervous internally, within a coalition alliance or within a party. The place to show that anxiety is not parliament. What you're trying to do, you're trying to silence the SRS here as an opposition party not to speak a single word of criticism or suspicion of these government proposals. There is no Serbian radical that is not for integration, which is not for co-operation. There is no such Serbian radical. And those who were once Serbian radicals know that this is the principled attitude of the SRS, but we are not for integration at all costs. We are not for integration where Serbia should be in a subordinate position. We are for integrations where we are accepted as equal conversators, as equal partners. We're talking about a border crossing at the border with Macedonia. Is there a better opportunity than to show the public what is behind this announcement about Serbia, Albania and northern Macedonia's alliance? There's no better chance. I'm sure there isn't one this year. Next year, who knows what's going to happen, but we point to some potential dangers and we talk – it's all right. It is strategically important that there is a corridor, that there is a transit between Serbia and Macedonia. The Vardar Valley is of crucial importance to Serbia, but it is regulated, there is no longer any danger. What would potentially be a danger in the future will be regulated by someone who is much stronger and stronger than Serbia, more politically influential and in any other respect, which is China. We know China is investing huge funds in maintaining the Greek corridor through Macedonia, via Serbia in Central Europe. There's nothing disputed about that. When did we argue, we Serbian radicals? We have always spoken – it is okay, it should be supported, because these good intentions of China and Chinese politics are previously known to all of us in Serbia. There's nothing to hide. But we express a large reserve when it comes to the possibility of integration at the moment, whose situation implies integration with Albania. Perhaps we wouldn't have been so skeptical if those from the West hadn't reported well-intentioned recently, who praised that announcement of integration and alliance with Albania. As soon as he showed up or came forward, however you wish, President France, the suspicion was immediately heightened with Serbian radicals. And that it is best and that it is most useful for Serbia, when such ones appear as benevolents, we immediately put a big question mark there and question it. Yes, those who say they are right – it should be integrated, free flow of people, capital, goods should be ensured, but it is not the essence of globalism that is dominant and when it comes to the Balkans. The bottom line of globalism is that the interests of those who manage capital are realised. This integration has more impact on Raiffeisen Bank, an example works, and other banks, than there is real policy that is run in any country in the Balkans. We want to show you how dangerous it is. Why are you angry? There's no reason to be angry. You want to present it to Serbia, as said the minister with that floscula -- the Balkan Balkan peoples. Well, it's not yesterday, that saying, but in the true sense of the word flossula, it's from Austria. This they planted to make Serbia more disintegrated under the motto, which more amortises the influence of the Serb people in this area. That's quite clear. If, in fact, someone had read history he saw it as a hoax since Austria, but not to go so far back, there have been even more ambitious in recent history, there have been those who have said that it is inevitable to unite certain states in the Balkans, and that Serbia is a leader and it is known that they have ended. Why are those passwords that have already been spent so much already known to hide and how dangerous it is for those of us living in this area? When we look at economics, when we look at financial interests, when we look at political interests, we have to be careful at what point we want to decide these alliances. You think now is the time to make any alliance with Albania? You think it's good for Serbia. Why can't it wait? Let's leave it for some people as they say, better times, when Serbia is more stable, when Serbia further strengthens both economically and politically, and when it determines its positions. After all, it is clear that both Serbia and other countries can realise their interests if they want only through great and strong, through powerful ones. Why don't we ask what they think in the Russian Federation about these integrations? They're the only well-intentioned ones. We listen to what they tell us from the west. What is the logic that leads to the West and which it wants to impose on us to think in Serbia. It is their logic that the inevitable integration processes, and what they tell us, are telling us first to disintegrate by admitting on your own Kosovo and Metohija, by making Kosovo a member of the United Nations, and then one day they will all be together in the European Union. Well, that's what they say -- it's not bad and it's going to change the constitution, to make Vojvodina a federal unit. Well, and Sandzak has more autonomy, and even so, one day you will say, whether you find it in the family of European countries in the near future or in the near future. What kind of logic is that? It's in itself contradictory. Well, I guess integration rules out the possibility of any disintegration. But it doesn't matter to us. The two states that need to unite in the so-called small Schengen is just an additional burden for Serbia, politically, create problems for us when it comes to the national policy that needs to be led. We have good relations with BiH and no one is against working on improving relations with the Federation within BiH. It's a perspective. This is where the possibility of a common language should be sought. There is a huge Serb people's corps on the territory of an entity called Republika Srpska, but we must not let go, we must not leave it to the mercy and the other part of BiH. Not only for national interests, but for economic interests. See where Serbia's largest exports are, except for what you keep saying as a parrot, Italy, Germany, Western Europe. The biggest exports are to BiH. It is real exports, huge needs for goods produced in Serbia by the Federation of BiH. There should be a demand for improvement and there is not only economic co-operation there and there is another dimension, there is one reconciliation that brings well-being for this space. It's accepting or strengthening relationships with those who are other religions. And we're watching it, we're going to solve it by integrating with Albania. At a time when Kosovo and Metohija are working intensively to become even more isolated. So, where's the logic of things? Let's see the economic side. What is Serbia's export to Albania? Neglect compared to all other countries. What's the import rate? Neglect. Don't people play games. You're using something that would eventually produce individuals as regional leaders. What does it mean to be a leader for a certain very short time in a region that is completely negligible when it comes to happening in the world, when it comes to happening in Europe? It just means personal satisfaction. We cannot for the sake of personal satisfaction of one's aspirations to keep quiet and not to say the dangers of agreements, what kind of co-operation agreement is with Albania at the moment, what kind of agreement is on any conversation on what is called the so-called little Schengen. Think carefully, you're making cold heads. Ask whoever is truly our historically confirmed friend, ask the Russian Federation, ask China as well. What's it cost you to hear their opinion? Don't listen to this Western flattery, whenever they flattered, when they praised the leaders then Serbia was getting worse and worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68081	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think Mr. Mircic understood this idea of a mini-Schengen. First of all, I want to say that I was surprised by his view that the Balkan politics is for Balkan peoples, and in fact, the Austro-Hungarian bribery to Serbs. Turns out, Prince Mihajlo was then the victim of a delusion set up by the Austro-Hungarians after he concluded international agreements as the prince of Serbia with Montenegro and Greece. It turns out Nikola Pasic was deceived by Austria and Milovan Milovanovic and King Petar and the Crown Prince Aleksandar, and after King Aleksandar, who together with Nikola Pasic had just made a Balkan pact with Montenegro, Greece and Bulgaria, did not release the Balkans from the Turks. I have already said this once, if it hadn't been for the agreement and if it hadn't been for the First Balkan War, Kosovo and Metohija and Macedonia might have been part of Turkey by today. King Alexander has concluded to Mal Antant. So it has nothing to do with Austro-Hungarian, it has to do with the Serbian need to ensure freedom for the Balkan peoples, that we agree on our own vital, national interests, without the need for anyone to interfere with us on the side, because whenever the great forces interfered between the Balkan peoples. The Balkans were so-called The powder barrel, and our interest now is as Minister Vulin said the Balkans would no longer be a powder keg than to be a space of peace and co-operation. You're talking about some integration with Albania. When it comes to integration, the man thinks that in this mini Shengen means that we will unite and Albania. That's what nobody's talking about. This is about deepening economic ties with Albania and Northern Macedonia. You say from the west there's praise coming. No, there's criticism coming from the west of the idea of what's-his-name. Little Shengen. They're criticizing little Shengen's idea. I haven't heard a single nice word that came from the west about the mini Shenge. Today you have a statement from this EU portal saying that Serbia is only declaring itself to the EU, and that we are essentially promoting Russian and Chinese interests here in the Balkans. As for the China you mentioned, I don't know if you know it, Mr. Mircic, you know who owns the airport in Tirana? China. Do you know who is the largest oil exploiter, or oil wells in the Adriatic Sea, that claps the coasts of Albania? The Chinese. What does that tell you? Is our policy contrary to the political and economic vision of China in these areas or is it compatible? I'd say he's compatible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68083	Thank you. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68084	In order not to conduct this historic debate in vain here, Mr. Martinovic, you know as a good knowledge of history and historical facts that Austria has prepared a variant from earlier on and a possibility when it comes to the withdrawal of Turkey from these areas. It has been in advance for many years more than is thought to be, calculating how it can be installed in the Balkan areas. Back then, when Turkey was the dominant. Besides, when you mentioned those Balkan wars, if it hadn't been for that Balkan war, it wouldn't have become Albania. Thanks to those who give us false hope that one day we will integrate into the EU, they have produced a good part of a creation called Albania and there is nothing controversial about it. We should lead what is in the national interest, as well as economically in Serbia's interest. When you say that China is the dominant owner of airports and oil, but Albania as Albania, of all these oil exports only asphalt, it's a by-product of oil processing. We are designing economic co-operation, on what, by importing tomatoes and importing asphalt, are we based on this thesis to improve co-operation with Albania? Secondly, speaking of integration, it would be perfectly logical to join Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would be perfectly logical to join Montenegro, but something has been reserved Milo Djukanovic. Imagine, Mil Djukanovic, who is NATO's infantry, that he accepts anything with reserves, especially that the West launched. He'd take it from both hands, but slowly, he knows what's behind it. There is something that is not good for a national Corps called the Serbian National Corps in the Balkans, and this example of northern Macedonia should serve us. Well, remember what they've done to them lately? First they told them give up their names, change your name. They changed their name, right? Then they said, "No, the referendum is not according to the Constitution, but as those of the West interpret it. So they said -- it doesn't matter whether 50% came out or not, it's important that over half of those who went out and voted for a change of name, and all with promise and hope that they would join the EU. Now that they see themselves as someone who's bought tricks and pranks from the West, now they scratch both their legs and their hands to save their skin. We would hate for anyone in Serbia to be in such a situation, as Zaev is now in the situation. We want Serbia well, and because we have political objections and remarks on the war of the current government, that doesn't necessarily mean that we want bad Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68085	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68086	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm not telling Mr. Mircic you mean bad to Serbia, away from it. But what I hope we agree is that Alexander Vukitch is not Zoran Zaev. The West told Alexander Vukic to deliver three radicals to me, so as far as I know, they weren't delivered. The West said to impose sanctions on Russia, so as far as I know, they weren't introduced. The West said you can't supply yourself with Russian weapons, so we're supplying ourselves. So we run a slightly different policy than we run states in our environment. As for what you said about Milo Djukanovic, it turns out that Milo is actually defending Serbian interests because you say – as soon as Milo doesn't want to go to "mini Schengen", it means that these things aren't very clean and that there's something harmful about Serbs. It turns out that Milo Djukanovic, who is not in his "mini Schengen" protection of Serbian interests and that Milo Djukanovic knows better what the interest of Serbia and the Serbian people is than Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not clear to me until the end. As far as I'm concerned, if we ignore these banalities around tomatoes and asphaltes that I didn't quite understand, the figures come next. These are just some figures that show you how much Serbia but also Albania and northern Macedonia will benefit from deepening our economic relations. All Western Balkan countries lose 23 million hours a year by waiting for their citizens at the borders. We could reduce that by at least three times if we continue with politics and deepening economic relations. It is worth two and a half billion euros to you, Mr Mircic. Watch out, two and a half billion euros, and 500m euros costs the Cacak highway - Požega. So what do these numbers tell you? These figures make it clear that deepening economic relations with Albania and with Northern Macedonia, I also agree with you for saying that it would be good for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro to enter this Agreement, but the accumulation of the market is primarily in Serbia's interest, because of all these countries, so who has a stronger industry? Who's got stronger agriculture? There's no one here. So, first of all, this agreement is in Serbia's interest. This isn't about integration in a state-law sense. Let's do it again. It is not that we will unite with Albania and Northern Macedonia, these times have passed, no one has any intention of creating any new Yugoslavia, nor is it possible at this time, nor is it necessary for the Serbian people but for us to connect economically and that we have an interest in Serbia because we have what to offer both the Albanian and the northern Macedonian markets, as well as in the Bosnian-Herzegovic and Montenegrin markets. We have much more to offer them than they offer us, so this agreement is, above all, in Serbia's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68087	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68088	Thank you. One thing is quite clear, both on the one hand and on the other are good intentions when it comes to the interest of Serbia and the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, but I must remind you of something, colleague Martinovic. And you're part witness and part participant of these events. Remember how Slobodan Milosevic was praised from the West, telling him that he was an inevitable factor of stability and peace in the Balkans, they told him that he was a visionary. We Serbian radicals then clearly and loudly warned that they were preparing something, not Slobodan Milosevic, but Serbia and the Serb people. How did the regime headed by the Milosevic? By scrambling Serbian radicals. There's nothing they didn't use just to literally rock and degrade what the SRS is saying. Unfortunately, there comes a time when they no longer needed their political goals, purpose, and was no longer usable. You saw how Slobodan Milosevic ended up, as a Balkan butcher, as a war criminal, has nothing to say to him. But let's not hang on to this one tragic fate. After him, Kostunica came. He won the prize as the biggest Democrats. Remember that picture when they took him as a bear to the Divine for a professional basketball game in America, it was depicted by the Divac Government and these, literally as a bear the Divine was led. Full of mouths to the West thanking Vojislav Kostunica, how did he end up? Same or similar to all who were servants of the West and brought by the West. After that comes the beautiful Boris,... And beauty, he never had a mind, but they praised him for being beautiful, for being respectable, for being such a leader in the Balkans. It always ends the same way or the same way, Mr. Martinovic. We're just saying that we don't need to come out, we don't need to go where we know in advance what they're up to. You need to be very, very careful. There's time. These are big decisions. It's supposed to wait. You don't need to lose your head. They are simply left by Europe outside the door, as they are keeping us at the door, and Northern Macedonia and Albania will not be EU, but they do not seek territory as a condition for entering that community of European countries, and Serbia is asked to give up the works of its territory, for starters, it is called KIM, and then the AP Vojvodina, and eventually the Raska area. How it'll all be, who knows. We need to wait lightly, calmly, patiently, not in a hurry. It's okay, there were meetings, there were meetings, but we don't need to break over our knees at all costs now, so say, "Here, we're some mini Shengen community." No, I don't. Serbia has a great chance of co-operation with the Russian Federation. I'm sorry, Mr. Marinkovic, but I assume you've realized that the essence is tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68089	There's no need to apologize to me. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68090	When asked what is true, ancient Greek philosophers said – the truth is the middle between two extremes. You're an extreme. You say - Aleksandar Vukic is a traitor, Aleksandar Vukic works by EU dictatorship, Aleksandar Vukic is someone who will betray Serbian interests in Kosovo and Metohija, in Montenegro, he drags Serbia into the mini Schengen, which is an anti-Serbian project. Here's the news from today. I apologize to both you and the citizens of Serbia for reading the news from my cell phone, but I haven't been able to print it. It is news published on the N1 web portal and says this -- Serbia's strategic path is a declaration of membership in the EU, so that's what N1 TV says, but internal politics and the way the government shows it is becoming increasingly problematic, because Belgrade is acting as the biggest promoter of the influence of other countries, in the first place Russia and China. Why did I read this? In fact, to make Serbian citizens realize that we as SNS, but also as the Serbian government, as the Republic of Serbia, are among the two extremes. One extreme is those from the West, some Western circles, which tell us that we are false supporters of EU accession, because we are formally, but we are essentially promoting the interests of Russia and China here. That's one extreme. And the second extreme is you, who say that Alexander Vukic is a traitor, that he is a Euro-fanatic and that everything he does is doing according to the dictatorship of the West. Now I've just told you that we're doing nothing by whose dictatorship, by the dictatorship of the West, or by the dictatorship of the East. We do as our national and state interests tell us. I don't see what's wrong with increasing the market, and Serbia is the largest country on the market. What could be bad if we increased our foreign trade? What if our industrialists, if our traders, if our agricultural producers are able to place their goods and services much more on the market of countries such as Albania and Macedonia, than is now the case? We now have a 184m-euro trade shoulder with Albania. Which, you'll admit, is very modest. By increasing economic co-operation, we could immediately raise the value of the foreign trade exchange to at least 500m euros. I've just said, 500m euros, that's how much the road costs, or the Cačak-Požega highway. Imagine how many new highways we could build in Serbia if we continued to deepen our economic relations. There's nothing Serbia can fear when it's the greatest of all these countries. We're the biggest. When we're as big as the state, we're the biggest and we're the market. When we're as big as the market, of course we have the most interest to be in that common market. I don't know how those economic postulates don't make any sense to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68091	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word is Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68092	First of all, Mr. Martinovic, Albania is becoming more and more famous for the so-called. services and a good share of income, and it is growing and growing, thus showing real economic parameters, to be realized on behalf of the use of natural beauty, among other things, and the coast that is attractive to everyone in the Western European countries, but that is not the essence that we could now argue that Serbia will benefit from it. He'll have one who's in the service business. Second, they have developed craftsmanship. Take a closer look at this in Albania's economic characteristics. The frequency of traffic and the traffic of goods is not exactly in such proportions that we could, that is, at the level of Northern Macedonia, because there is much more frequency of traffic, there are more passages of goods and capital than at this crossing with Albania. But that's not the point. The point is this, for the public. You, as a good knowledge of the political situation and as a man who has experience in politics, are trying to push through eating a matrix that we Serbian radicals should fall for, which is that you are increasingly exploiting and using Alexander Vukic's name before this election, and then when you do not have a strong and strong argument, you say that Serbian radicals Alexander Vukic produce in a traitor, in a man who has surrendered Kosovo or who will surrender Kosovo and Metohija. The SRS never said that. After all, many times you have had the opportunity to hear representatives of the SRS here, we have never, even otherwise spoken, expressed hope, knowing its origin, family and its roots, that it will be very difficult to accept that it will sign the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. It's a very important element. So then we praised and repeatedly pointed out that we welcome the fact that some of our political views were corrected after Vojislav Seselj returned, not for the reason that we would put Vukic in an inferior position, but for the reason that it was positive to change our relationship to the policy that leads to the West and to the policy that comes from China and the Russian Federation. We never said, nor did we want to accuse anyone in advance. We haven't even been able to express ourselves uglyly about an individual like Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68093	Thank you. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68094	Thank you. Just for a little while. I am pleased that you have revised your position on Alexander Vukic and, behold, we agree that Aleksandar Vukic is a Serbian patriot, a patriot and that he takes care exclusively of the interests of Serbia and the interests of the Serbian people. Thank you for supporting that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68095	Thank you. Would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68096	Mr. Martinovic, I don't mind saying it again. I said, knowing his origin, his roots, we're not sure he'll give in. That's all I said. Otherwise, for what you said about Alexander Vukic, here, I'll take it upon myself to recommend you. That's good, that's commendable to say to your leader that he's a hero, that he's brave, that he's bold, that's good. That's not bad for a leader to say. We hope it'll be one constant, there won't be a variable. But, look, the way you do, not you personally, but co-workers and government members, there's a great chance that Wolf will crack, as you would say, a movie and return to the original policy of the SRS. It's not far from that. As much as these are embarrassing him and embarrassing him and dragging him into affairs, which they, which their fathers, for God's sake, is not a long time to get back to their original politics. We hope, but hope and reality is and how significantly distanced. So we hope that at least that distance will be reduced between hope and what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68097	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68098	It's a little note. I'm glad Mr. Mircic is funny. I don't know, Mr. Mircic, I won't answer for another word, which is why you should recommend me to Alexander Vukic. I'm a little man already at age. We have a young leader's academy, which is currently attended by more than 200 students, young people. They should try politics, legislative and executive authorities. I'm already a man who's a bit of a gray head. I don't have any excessive political ambitions anymore. But what's more important than mine and your political destiny, that's to agree, I'm saying quite seriously now, about the national issues that matter to both your party and the party that I belong to. Today Minister Vulin told one great truth – when did you hear from an Albanian politician that he said anything contrary to Albanian national interests? When did you hear from a Croatian politician that he said something contrary to Croatian national interests? And we're here to get our hands on the necks, to slaughter ourselves on the topics that I think we're essentially agreeing on, but we have one of our Serbians, and that's our Serbian political disease, and I'm sorry to say that on these national topics, which we're essentially agreeing on, we're trying artificially to create differences in order to show ourselves in public that we're different. Mr Mircic, emotions, if we were to ask our emotions, we know what Serbs would say about Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija and Montenegro, etc. (Alexander Seselj: Dubrovnik. ) I Dubrovnik, etc. That's not what we argue about when it comes to emotions, but there's something called political reality. She's who she is now. What Alexander Vucic is doing now, what the Serbian government is doing now, is that political reality is changing but in Serbia's interest. We can't change her overnight. You are now saying – why does Alexander Vukic not do more about the SPC and its religious facilities in Montenegro. Tell me, what do we propose to do? What can Serbia do now? What can Serbia do now when Montenegro declared independence in 2006? What can Serbia now epochally do about Kosovo and Metohija? What can Alexander Vukic do when the Kumanski Agreement was signed in 1999, in 2008 Kosovo and Metohija declared independence, the West supported it? The Serbian government was silent then, and now in 2019, you expect Alexander Vukic to be someone holding a knife and a cake in his hands, even when it comes to Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Thank you. Unfortunately, we don't, but what we do is we try in a wise, rational, peaceful way... Nemanja Sarovic: By silence. We don't keep our mouths shut, Mr. Sarovic, but we're about to hit the talambas, as you would have done, as we all did in the 1990s together, so we saw how we went, now we're doing a little differently. Now we work calmly, now we're doing a little sober, and we're trying to make a move at a time to change things for Serbia's benefit. As Minister Vulin told you yesterday, it was unthinkable for Serbia to invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina until a few years ago, that Serbia was opening factories in Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. (President: Thank you. Here I go. The Western issue of Kosovo and Metohija has been completed, there is nothing more to negotiate, just to sign a legal-binding agreement. Now the signals are coming, I'm not saying it's a policy change, but there are signals from serious Western states that, in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, it's not all over and that we Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija can still get something. Can we get everything at this point? It's hard, but to get something that's important for municipalities where Serbs are in the majority and how we can. (President: Thank you. We will not be able to do that if we look for what is not realistic at this time. We should be nationalists, but real nationalists. If we're emotional nationalists, like we were in the 1990s, we'll lose everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68099	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Would you like a replica? Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68100	By the time you mentioned the 1990s, the most rational thing was the Serbian Radical Party. Vojislav Seselj has stuck to and warned of the dangers seen in the opening of a conflict with Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you want the 1990s set, who was more in favour of signing an agreement with Russia and Belarus than the Serbian Radical Party, warning that the moment of aggression against Serbia could come? Is that rationally political? Is that visionary? The fact that others under the influence of the West attributed to the Serbian Radical Party today has nothing to do with the policy led by the Serbian Radical Party. After all, you yourself were in the ranks of Serbian radicals, both in the programme and in the ideology of the Serbian Radical Party, there is nothing that can be interpreted as bad for the Serbian people or for any people living in these areas. That's not what the Serbian Radical Party is hiding. I only warned you, but through you and all your party colleagues. Don't plant that matrix on us, we won't fall for it. You at Vukić want to make an election success in these elections, and that's normal, but don't keep looking for that front in the sense that he's always threatened and that they attack him. We are always on the side of those who defend Serbia, those who will not sign independence for Kosovo and Metohija. We insist that you give up the EU. Speaking of which, you're referring me to Mr. Vulin, I'm telling you, I personally appreciated him when he resigned for signing the Brussels Agreement. He was the co-ordinator for Kosovo and Metohija, and I thought it was the only right move. Which is why he changed his mind, I don't know. (Zvonimir Djokic: He understood. All right. Apparently, you're his spare mind, so you say he figured it out. I think he's a mature person and he knows everything. He's not naive in politics. What is essential is the following, and this Security Strategy makes it clear that at no cost will you not give up your entry into the EU, and you say in this strategy, Mr Minister, that the anti- security factor for Serbia is Kosovo and Metohija, that it is largely supported by Kosovo's independence and Metohija, the EU's leading countries, but already the next sentence – the EU's commitment is something that does not give up this policy and this political set. Isn't that just contradictory? It's just contradictory to itself. We call on you to give up EU entry because there is nothing good for Serbia. You explain that these are economic interests. Economic interests are entirely on the other side. There is no need to break up relations with EU countries individually, but there is nothing with the EU. You have some debt. I don't know why you want to make up for that debt. You and Katherine Ashton and the others congratulated the election victory in the presidential elections three hours before the polls closed. It doesn't take so many years to be grateful. If nothing else, it costs Serbia. It may mean it or not, but it costs Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68101	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68102	I could now remind you of that letter from Vojislav Seselj in 1991 when he offered his Chetniks to the Americans to lie together in the hot Iraqi sand and to crush Saddam Hussein and his army, but let's not deal with these silly topics. You're saying we were never emotional nationalists. We were, Mr. Mircic. You say I was a member of the Serbian Radical Party at the time. Yes, I was, and from this point of view I can tell you that we were emotional nationalists at least two issues that matter to the Serbian people. Remember how many Serbian radicals we then attacked in 1995, Slobodan Milosevic, because he signed the Dayton Peace Agreement. There were no stronger critics of the Dayton Peace Accords than Serbian Radicals. Is that right? Do you today accept the reality that Republika Srpska is based on the Dayton Peace Agreement because, if I am not mistaken, the Annex of the Six Dayton Peace Agreement is the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says that Bosnia and Herzegovina is without the prefix "republic" or any other legal or political prefix, simply called Bosnia and Herzegovina, a state consisting of two entities – the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. Today, the Serbian Radical Party accepts that there is no Dayton Peace Agreement without Republika Srpska. That's one example. Another example, which I want to give you, how emotional you and I were. I'm not running away from being an emotional nationalist, but I was an emotional nationalist, so I realized it was better to be a real nationalist. We were emotional nationalists, Mr. Mircic, in 1999. We boasted that the SRS alone in the Serbian Parliament did not support the Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement, and that the Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement stemmed from Resolution 1244. Today in 2019, for this Resolution 1244, we stick tightly, as apart from the Constitution of Serbia, it is the only legal link between the Republic of Serbia and its AP KIM. I've given you these two examples. I could perhaps have referred to more, which I want to show you is not always good when in politics you think with your heart. The famous French philosopher Blaz Pascal said – the best thoughts come from the heart. But politics isn't always like that. Let's take a sound mindful look at things. Purely common sense, without including emotion. (President: Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. ) Those who signed the Dayton Peace Agreement, whose policy led to the vote of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, showed that Serbian state and national interests are being defended by common sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68103	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Milorad Mircic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68104	Well, let's get things straight to the end. We were against the Dayton Agreement, you're right, but for absolutely rational reasons. We have never given up on BiH being divided into two entities, that the Serbian people have their own statehood, in the fullest sense. It is an entity, but you know it has a prerogative state. But we were against handing over the territory that applied to the city of Sarajevo. One hundred and fifty thousand Serbs are from the urban environment, what was best, the best quality in BiH in the Serb people, was housed most of the work in Sarajevo. It's decapitated. (Alexander Martinovic: Milorad, Banja Luka would fall. What you're throwing away is to drop Banja Luka. You know, Mr. Martinovic, you heard it all, I was in the field back then. That's when I was in that Banja Luka. It was all done thanks to the fact that none of the only bullets, and not something else, were fired when Knin fell, and then we said and now that it wasn't Slobodan Milosevic, but it was those who swore, who swore that if he was accidentally attacked by Knin that they would answer by force. Grahovo, which is part of Republika Srpska, fell. No grenades fired. So who's to blame? Those who commanded the Republika Srpska Army are to blame. Well, it's their fault. Ask them who's to blame. Secondly, when you talk about Resolution 1244, we were against it. We have clearly foretold what awaits us if Resolution 1244 is accepted, and Vojislav Seselj from the pay phone said, warned, Resolution 1244 is only a cover for what NATO intends. It will be paper that will be of no value in those parts that are not of NATO's interest to the pact. Take the speech of Vojislav Seselj. These are the documents that were adopted. We are invited, especially in that part to bring the police and the military back to guard the borders, and those who come to power, do not blame those who were not with us, but those who were not allowed to mention that they should return the army and the police, but tell the local public – not these, it is not now on the agenda, and God asks you how many reasons they find. We now have to keep that in order to see that they are attached to Resolution 1244, and we were deeply convinced that Resolution 1244 only served the NATO Pact, or the Americans to enter to occupy part of Serbia's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68105	Thank you. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68106	Here's my word, even though I said I wouldn't answer my word again. I just can't accept some things. Milorad Mirci: I don't blame you. I don't blame you either, Milorad. I don't consider this our personal conflict. You're my friend and we've known each other for many years, but let me disagree on what you said about Sarajevo. You know what the price was for handing over certain acts of Sarajevo to bring down Banja Luka. Who didn't let Banja Luka fall? It's hard for me to say, but thanks to the Americans, Banja Luka didn't fall in the fall of 1995. That's what Ali Izetbegovic said, that he was called directly by Richard Holbrook and said – you must stop the offensive to Banja Luka. They were 12 km from Banja Luka. That's one thing. The second thing, I understand, Ratko Mladic is guilty of Krajina's fall because he commanded the Republika Srpska Army. (Milorad Mircic: It's not his fault. Who was in charge? Who? Talic? I don't know who's in charge. General Ratko Mladić was in command. Did we declare him and today the Serbian people consider him a hero, and you now declare him guilty of Krajina's fall? As for KIM, you say - we are barbarous today against Resolution 1244, but we resent Vukic for not asking him to return after that same resolution by the Serbian Army and the KIM police? We, not to turn out now – I said, so I said, multiple times to read what it says in Resolution 1244. It can be returned in hundreds, it says, hundreds, not thousands more, to Serbian military and police personnel to guard Serbian churches and monasteries, to clean minefields in KIM and protect the state border towards Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia. It says in Resolution 1244, but it says something else, but you won't say it, and I don't know why – it can do all that if the KFOR commander approves and the matter is very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68107	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Thank you and my colleague Mircic for such a good discussion and contention. Now I would like to give my word to Professor Mark Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68108	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are absolutely right, Mr. Minister of the Army, when you said the Balkans should be decided by the Balkan peoples. It is the best exchange for resolving the vital interests of Western Balkan citizens. It's true that it's not the latest invention, but the historical opportunities are now that it's possible to realize that idea. This will stop there being a coin for the Balkan peoples to subscrib for the interests of the great forces. That is why this initiative by Alexander Vukic is extremely important and should be absolutely supported. This is another initiative by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, to establish a peace pedagoggy in the Balkans that is an alpha and omega of the overall economic prosperity of Balkan countries. Mr. Minister, "mini Schengen" is not some new Yugoslavia as some want to counter. This is about strengthening Balkan co-operation. It is a new project that will boost the exploitation of potentials that Western Balkan countries have, while each meeting the conditions for EU accession at the same time. The gentlemen who discussed it today should've kept that in mind. "Mini Schengen" is for the benefit of all Serbs, all Albanians and for the benefit of all Northern Macedonians, so to speak. This is about free flow of goods, capital, people and services in the Western Balkans. The aim is to create conditions for citizens of these three countries by the end of 2012 to cross the border of each of the three countries, to reduce million losses and long-term waiting for trucks at the border, and to open the labour market, which is also very important in the interest of all three countries and citizens of these countries. We also call on other Western Balkan countries to join this initiative in favour of all citizens of the Western Balkans. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the goods from Mostar to Skopje are traveling today for 25 days. Before the goods arrive from China, rather than from Mostar to Skopje. A long time ago, these borders that don't apply to ordinary people had to be abolished, but they were for criminals, dealers and smugglers. Dear Ministers, you are here today, and yesterday you said that Marinika Tepic, otherwise Chobanu, in a people known as the pigeon flyer, because she lays in bed at night in one political party, and in the morning wakes up in another political party, otherwise, the electric rabbit of Dragan Djilas, because she works on his bell, otherwise called the "Djiki Mafia", accused the state of Serbia of buying the withdrawal so-called. Kosovo's independence, or recognition of Kosovo's independence. That, Mr. Minister, did not show for the first time that there was a lack of patriotic training. And not just her, but her boss. This is not the first anti-state statement by Marinika Tepic. After the ministry's denial, as you know, the foreign affairs of the Russian Federation and Ukraine, related to an imaginary affair over the handover of weapons, has in some way continued to defile its country and its country's institutions. I've talked about it here many times and called on the D.A.'s authorities to take the job into their own hands. This woman, Mr. Minister, is very dangerous to the fundamental economic and security interests of our country, and that is why I call once again on the D.A. to deal with her dishonest work. That's what her boss, Dragan Gilas, who, behold, on August 13, 2009 met at the US Embassy with US Embassy's envoy of the affairs of the US Embassy, Jennifer Bras, when he said, quote: "I stand for the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo," the quote concluded, and thus placed itself in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. When I say so, Mr. Vice President, then I remember that Mr. Vuk Jeremic, otherwise leader of the Balkan and international gang of thieves and frauds, on 29 March 2018 in "Washington Post" in an author's article, said ahead of an important meeting of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic with the Vice President of the United States, quote: "Vučić is a traitorous bastard", finished a quote, so that you might not stop me when I say so, and now the citizens will see who is a traitorous bastard. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, unlike them, Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian neimar, a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian reformer and a great, above all, Serbian patriot and patriot who will never, gentlemen of the radicals, work against the interests of his country. Now allow me, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the Balkan and international gang of thieves and frauds, said in a conversation with an American congressman in December 2008, I quote: "KIM's entry into the UN is the best Serbia should hope for," the quote concluded. And that's when he became the traitorous bastard of our country. I don't want to talk about him any further, there's a lot of quotes where he put a knife in the back of the state of Serbia. Secondly, the second from the Alliance for Serbia, I would say it is an alliance against Serbia, and you will hear it now, is Zoran Zivkovic, otherwise a farmer in an attempt, the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, in October 2003, said at the International Conference in Vienna, quote: "I don't care whose KIM is completely irrelevant to me," he concluded a quote along with Vuk Jeremic and Gilas in our country's traitorous bastards. Boris Tadic, in an interview with US envoy Vizner, quoted him as saying "providing assurances that he had worked within himself and accepted Kosovo's independence, completed the quote, and respected citizens, thus falling into the order of traitorous bastards of our country". Sergey Trifunovic, called "pisoje", said, quoting "that he will piss on the grave of President Vukic", a quote concluded, said on January 31st 2019, quoting: "Kosovo has been lost. Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not to Serbs," the quote ended, and thus was placed in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Sasa Jankovic, in the people known "Sale Pranja", is 3. Eight. In 2017, I quote: "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo entering Interpol and thus acknowledging Kosovo's independence," the "Sale Pranja" was placed in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Nenad Canak, in a nation called "Some Gicos", is 5. On 3 August 2017, as a failed presidential candidate, I quote: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence", a close quote, and by doing so, gentlemen of radicals, was placed in the order of traitorous bastards of our country, and Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian statesman. Cedomir Jovanovic, in a people known as "duvanović" is 29. Nine. In 2015, he said, "The state of Kosovo is a non-refundable act that only irresponsible politicians continue to ignore," the quote ended, and thus settled into the traitorous bastards of our country. Professor Dr. Rade Veljanovski, in the people known and among fellow professors as "Rade eggs" is 21. 4. In 2018, he said, "Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a chair in the UN", completed a quote, and thus Professor Rade Veljanovski, in a people called "Rade eggs", placed in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, respected citizens, have now seen who sold Kosovo and who sells Kosovo. Aleksandar Vucic, I repeat once again, is a large Serbian neimar, a major Serbian reformer, a great Serbian statesman and above all a great Serb patriot. In the end, Mr. Minister, yesterday I didn't have time to talk about those laws, I hope tomorrow, but let me say what author Mihajlo Jović 1882, the author of the textbook for the fourth grade of elementary school, put as a motto of his textbook, addressing students, quote: "I would like you to always be heroes like Obilić and Hajduk Veljko, honest as Karadjordje, that you never take power as Jova Kursula, not to grab yourself, but to help others, as Hajduk Veljko does, as he did, to do well as Prince Ivan, to forgive and to the enemy as Prince Michael," and I add - to build and love Serbia as he loves Aleksandar Vucic. He's supposed to be in his fourth grade textbooks today. And what finally, Mr. Minister, is quite right when you said that both the Ministry of Education and Education should be involved in yesterday's programmes -- the return of national dignity, not only to the Serbian people, but also to the Serbian state, to change the curricula and programmes. Because today, as in the 19th century, Serbia needs heroes and patriots, the state of Serbia soldiers and hardworking warriors, the municipalities of decent citizens, and this should be the motto of all primary school textbooks. It is true that he lacks a respected gentleman of patriotic sentiment. I have to say the closing sentence. The first world war we won thanks to patriotic feelings and programs in the second half of the 19th century and just, at the end of that century, our young men were raised in a patriotic spirit and made superhuman efforts, rarely seen in armies of the whole world. Thank you, Mr. Vulin, for you and the commander-in-chief are restoring the reputation of our Serb army, which will certainly be congratulating, heroic, patriotic, as it did in the early 20th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68109	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Now, the word has been made by Parliament MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Professor Atlagic, it is a pleasure to listen to your always inspiring and facts supported by speech. The Western Balkans region will have much more tension in the coming period, no doubt, various political misunderstandings and will live under the influence of recent events, and even further past, but can be expected in parallel to accelerated economic development, progress, even faster than the progress of euro area countries. According to IMF estimates, the average growth in the coming years in northern Macedonia will be 3.5%, in Albania 4%, and in Serbia as much as 4.2% of GDP. In addition, the IMF estimated that, for example, in Croatia, growth will be only around 1.92%, and some competent experts argue that due to the fall of the euro area, it will be significantly lower, somewhere between 1.5% to 1.6%, compared to our 4.2%, far less. Faster economic growth is essential to the Balkans as a remedy for the intensive departure of young people from the entire region, which has begun to be empty, and this trend will unfortunately last until we significantly improve the economic situation and until people realize that we will no longer fight each other, but that we will work together, create and build a future without conflict and war. It is estimated that the entire region will continue to be empty, to be empty by now, that there are far fewer people living in the countries of the region than the public thinks and knows about them. Crude is the truth that in Serbia we remained, unfortunately, only about 6.5 million people, that there are only 3.2 million in Croatia, in Bosnia and Herzegovina barely 2.7 million, in northern Macedonia about 1.4 million, in Montenegro there are not 520,000 people, and in Kosovo and Metohija today, counting all 95,000 Serbs living there, there are not a total of 1.2 million. The trend of the region's population drains can only be reduced by faster economic growth, and stopping this trend can be expected, according to the experts, only when we achieve that salary to reach 1,000 euros far now. Well, then people will start coming back. Such economic growth is impossible without the free flow of goods, people, services and capital, without uniting the common market, without peaceful co-existence, relieved of fear of war. How does the EU view the "mini Schengen" initiative? How can they look, except with the approval of something that affirms the fundamental postulates of human freedoms on which the EU itself is based, and these are freedoms of movement of people, goods, services and capital? If we look at the "small Schengen" initiative from the position of European foreign and security policy, it can only be seen in a positive sense, as a relaxation of relations between countries, so-called. The Western Balkans, and much wider. Honestly, if I were in their position, therefore, that I was in the place of people who decide to expand to the Western Balkan countries, I would not be happy to accept that someone from the Balkans, who has failed to resolve mutual relations, someone who still lives in the past is burdened with conflicts, wars, divisions, dissent, borders, borders and revenges, that this someone is disrupting me by his entry into the EU because of the "Bregzita" and other internal and so on. Euro-Atlantic problems. If I were them, I'd be against the so-called entry. A barrel of powder in a house called the EU that I was just about to paint. But that's why I would kindly look at every initiative that goes in that direction to at least moisturize that powder in that powder barrel called the Balkans. I am sure that the EU can look only kindly and with approval on the "little Schengen" initiative, although I am not fooled by the thought that there will be no evils that will want to be wronged in any way, motivated by the desire that the neighbours simply die a cow. The "small Schengen" initiative between Serbia, Albania, Northern Macedonia, but also, I expect, other countries that will approach it in a unique way are devising ideas about new closures in the borders of wars and returns to the past in which we would all be trapped and shackled in chains of our own delusions, prejudices and self-satisfaction. In such a future, trapped in the past, our children would live in ghettos, their kind of camps, surrounded by barbed wire, over which they would constantly suck grenades, whistle bullets, and they would be stuck up to the belt in mud soaked in blood. No! No! We in the SNS don't want that, not ours, not yours, not anyone's kids, so we want change. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing of Miratovac-Lojane is only one of a series of agreements that we will have with countries in the region, which will allow freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital as a prerequisite for establishing better relations and economic growth and the recovery of our fallen economies, the development of economy, new employment, reduction and halting outflows of the population and a more peaceful future. We support the Agreement and we will vote for its confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68111	Thank you, colleague Djokic. Now the word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68112	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, today I will talk about the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing of Miratovac-Lojana. It is extremely good and important that we sign these agreements for the simple reason that we strengthen bilateral relations, meaning stronger our foreign policy. We need to know that the wars have been around for the rest of our lives, the Serbs are waging defensive wars. Whoever the war wants, the war in his house was. Never again will war in Serbia be. That's why we sign these agreements, make friends, and then when we have friends, we do business. Let's just think of foreign investments for this year, 220 billion dinars, projections for the next year, 260 to 300. Why? Because we are a factor of stability in the region, because the state has strengthened, we were on the verge of failure in 2012. Today is a different story, so we need to talk about these agreements. It's a good thing we signed this agreement just ten days ago, because it's about speed, and when it comes to speed and money, we have a faster flow of money money money. That's how it works, that's how the responsible government works. As for the “little Shengen, ” of course we will all support him. Everyone in their right mind knows that it is a improvement for three countries, primarily for the Republic of Serbia and then for Northern Macedonia, but also for Albania. Why? I'm talking about the flow of capital money, but also the recognition of qualifications. People need to know that we're gonna be exchanging labor, very important. I'm listening here all sorts of things about how "little Schengen" is wrong, how it's against this, against that. People, the market economy of governments in the world, if we don't make peace and if we don't start working together, what, what's gonna be of us someday? Nothing. It is a good thing that this "little Schengen" has already come to life in some way, although it is not signed, I hope that it will be signed very soon. The "Little Schengen" initiative has already produced some results in the economy, which has long been awaited, primarily the Presevo-Tabanovci crossing works 24 hours. Here, I hear that now and between Northern Macedonia and Albania will also open a 24-hour transition. Serbia-North Macedonia-Albania will for the first time treat other country's citizens as domestic, which is good. This is the 21st century. Albania will only go with a ID card, and what is most important are tourists. So, how do we do it? He comes to Belgrade, needs a visa. No one will come from China or any distant country to be in Belgrade for 100 days, but wants to tour the entire region. If that's how Europe works, why shouldn't the Republic of Serbia do it? We have a president who's a visionary, and I'm sure he'll liven this up, even though we really have a lot of enemies on the side and some state institutions who don't want to. They don't want it because they want it, as my esteemed colleague said -- a powder keg in the Balkans. Any, it didn't happen again. We've had wars. In World War I, we lost 1,200,000,00 people, in the second over a million. In the 1990s, you don't know how many victims there were. It's never happened again. We're making friends and, as my esteemed colleague, Mr. Martinovic said, we're going to increase the trade. We now have about 184 million with Albania, and we will have 500 million. In 500 million, we can make our way from Chuck to Požega. That's how it works. That's how the responsible government works. In the voting day, I will support all the draft laws and this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68113	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. Now the word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, all the SNS MPs join in the words of support when it comes to establishing better, closer co-operation in our region and, of course, the issue of common organisation and border crossings that make these borders less important, that they are easier to cross, that this famous flow of people, goods, services and capital is better, can certainly come across only as far as we are concerned. Those who comment on this agreement, or such ideas and such plans, are critical and therefore strongly underline it, believe that it is one of the segments of the so-called. "Little Schengen", or "mini Schengen", as they still call it, and that the borders between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania do something more transparent, must primarily answer two or three important questions. First of all, what's wrong with the basic idea of economic progress? What is wrong with the basic idea of creating more, getting more, getting more work secure, both in Serbia and in any country that wants to participate in such a programme? Look, just for a moment, let's look at what those first steps look like when they lay the foundations of what we call the EU today. Then the French and Germans, burdened by the difficult past, would say the impossible political conditions for any co-operation and understanding, say – let's try to cooperate economically, let's try to make something together on the economic plan, and we'll see how it goes forward. No matter what anyone thinks about today, whether it's politically agreed with one or the other, just look back for a moment and look at what they've done, what they've done, what they've done and what the result has given. At that time, in then Europe, for which everyone on the street would say -- of course they would fight each other again, of course they would be destroyed again, of course their history is so difficult that it's impossible to avoid. They have led to today in that same space, thanks to this healthy logic of economics, to work together to make everyone better, and this will further induce a better understanding in all possible ways. They've built a space for you all today, to stop them on the street again, to say that it might be the most favourable, most desirable place to live. Not that he has preserved peace, not that he has preserved security, not that he saved war and destruction, but that he has managed to perfect himself, advances that today virtually everyone would want to live under such conditions. Now, that's the result of what we today have called SNS president, primarily Mr. Martinovic's MP group, thinking sound logic, thinking with a cold head. Is something wrong with what we say -- we want the investments that come to the whole region tomorrow to be twice as big? Of course not. Is something wrong, and how could it be bad, as we say - already now more than half of these investments in Serbia are coming? Tomorrow, if there's a double the size of a piece that we can count on, so the Serbian will be twice as big as it is today, and again it will be the best thing in everything the whole region can offer, but also to get on the other side. There's nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with it. Those who disagree with the question of any integration, European, or any other, think their position is so much easier that they do not have to explain that what they postulate these co-operations, which is again free flow of people, free flow of goods, free flow of services and free flow of capital, is at the very heart of the idea of "little Shengena". Again, they can't save their commitment to explain what's wrong with economic progress. For example, in keeping trucks at border crossings shorter. The example works, so, Mrs Malusic, raises the general level of exchange with certain countries, so be Albania. What's wrong with that? What's wrong with us taking out more and at the same time providing more benefits for our people as consumers? Well, both are useful for the citizens. What is bad and what is controversial in the idea that of this "little Schengen" we can literally make what we ourselves are capable of and the images ourselves to make out of it, because that's literally it. What's it gonna be, what's it gonna mean tomorrow? The answer is that which we make of it, no better, no worse than that. At this point, what is evident and what is expected can, from January 1st, it means travel only with personal documents, only with ID cards. It also means a single labour market, a labour market that brings together 12 million people, on which you no longer have to wait three months to get a work permit, but you can apply for it thanks to the good software, the modern software that was created, to apply the moment you crossed the line. It just means that what already exists, and in practice we and how we also have workers from northern Macedonia and workers from Albania, but because of these and these conditions, the existing majority of them, unfortunately, works in so-called. A gray zone, to bring into legal flows, so that our country has some more money, to make it easier for these people, but also for the space where they're engaged. To regulate such issues as wages, but also not only wages, but also the issue of sick leave, pension and disability insurance. So, all the good things themselves. Nothing, there's absolutely nothing wrong with it, but potentially the most precious and potentially most important -- what are you going to say tomorrow to those who appear here as investors? What you'll be able to show them -- people, you see, today when you talk to Serbia to come here, open your factory here, you don't have to think more about just the markets that have seven million inhabitants, but we're already talking about 12 million, with the always open invitation to join others, so let's talk about an even bigger market. This is what is most precious and best for everyone who participates in this project today, or will participate tomorrow, which we will all have more to offer and be more attractive to you. Provide more work for our people, our families, consequently further higher wages, further growth of personal incomes. So all the good things that come from progress in the economy. Nothing. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. There's only one catch, which you would say Colloquial -- for these things it takes courage, it needs political loops. Those who do not have it are the easiest ones to say -- no, this is what Belgrade wants in a new Yugoslavia now. When you said Yugoslavia, you said the grandma horn and everyone will turn aside and not have to explain further, or what's good in new jobs, or what's good in investment, or what's good in the economy. They think they explained everything and didn't explain anything. The common state offers no one. If they do not understand what the model is in the EU between France and Germany, only then do they have no idea what they're talking about, but the common state is not offering them anyone. We offer a common perspective, a common market and a common care for what should again be a healthy logic for which political loops are needed, and that is correct. To say - we want to take care of our interests, we want to protect these interests, economically but all others, we want to ask ourselves about our future. When I say it is Aleksandar Vukic – the Balkan Balkan peoples, it means that and that is the policy that is in practice being led in the Republic of Serbia. Whenever he said, and he said many times – we are leading our policies today, protecting our interest, there is no first, nor second, nor third chair, but only one, and that is Serbian. And that's what we want for everyone who lives in this piece of the continent that we all share together and we call it a region. That we take care of ourselves, that we run our own politics. This is not about any comforting reward for a poor European perspective. If there's something to wait for, and maybe it should be, it's just more reason for us to speed up our dealings, for us to speed up the protection of our interests, for us to speed up the organization of us in the region so that it's best for us to be most profitable and to provide ourselves with the most future. So it's simple stuff. Not everyone understands them, but when you explain it to me like this, believe me, I've had a chance to look at it with my own eyes, it can't easily repeat the half-mantra, it's Yugoslavia, it understands that it's not and understands that it's hard to explain what's wrong with it. When you look at who's on the side of those who are criticizing these ideas, literally those who can't stand Alexander Vukic. Politically because they cannot defeat it, or because it is a man who unequivocally protects the interests of the Serbian state and the Serbian national interests, so the interests of the people, wherever the Serbian people live. When you look at who's on the other side, the same ones who like a snake suck, for more than two years as Alexander Vukic speaks, the common market of the whole region is the perspective of the whole region. The same ones who in the last few months, not because "little Schengen" has become a subject because it has started to be implemented and what has started to be seen in practice is something, but because they are angry and sneezed at themselves, because they can't mate, they don't choose the day, they don't choose the way, they don't choose the time, they don't choose the targets, they don't try to do him any harm. So, who politically hates him and not only politically, you're the biggest opponent of this idea. In practice, they'll say all sorts of things and who's going to try to take some of that idea down, sabotage it. I've seen two sides. I saw Kurti's activists trying to drag some of the banners in the middle of Tirana and thus belittle the gathering that was dedicated to the idea of "little Shengen", because it was Alexander Vukic's idea. So, Kurti with his activists, on the one hand and on the other, I saw Gilas, Šolakov and Miskovic's media doing the same thing, who went there to provoke to try to belittle, to try to start destroying the good result because it was the result of Alexander Vukic. You know what, when you have those against you, it's the best possible proof in the world that you're doing the right thing and that you're on the right track. So as they attack Alexander Vukic, there's no need for anyone in this country to wonder if he's making moves, obviously the best possible moves. Those who want to worry about the issue of Serb interests in the region, and this is a message, first of all, for the courtyards of these from Bosko Obradovic, please do not interrupt Alexander Vukic to protect the Serb people in Montenegro. First, without the help of this Alexander Vukic, there would be no adequate survival for our people in Montenegro either. Who is helping them materially, who is helping them financially, who has made it possible for our people's institutions there to function both Matica Serbian and Institute and cultural centres and national councils? Well, all of Alexander Vukic, well that's what the Serbs from Montenegro say, who told Milo Djukanovic in person, not who you are, at press conferences, but in person, and that you're right to try this property thing, and you're not, you have no right to undo what's been guaranteed for a hundred years and it's about other people's property. It's nowhere in the world. You're wrong about that, and you can't do that. That's what he said to his face, unlike you who can't look yourself in the face. In order not to have to, you're probably answering yourself to what you did yesterday and I'm ending it, you're Mr. Ministers are absolutely right. What Gilas, his marines, their Beards and all those who are exactly the same, did yesterday to their country, to their people, brutally insulting, brutally disdaining all of our friends from the world, who said – no, we have no problem making Serbia loudly known is right when it comes to KIM. No, we have no problem telling her sovereignty we recognize. All these friends of ours, our consecrated friends, are brutally faceless, mean and masculine Gilas, the marines, and the rest of them accused them of being corrupt, of being paid, of getting money for such a move. They, in the worst possible way, were blasted with mud and put at risk all of what the next activities were planned on the subject of retreating so-called. Confessions. So, all they did was make it most difficult for their country to do business tomorrow when they talk to an eighteenth, nineteenth, twentyth on this subject, pointing out in advance those people are mocking and accusing that they are also corrupt. As far as they care about Serbia, they showed what they did to that state, they showed what they told the whole country yesterday, the whole planet if you want to, and they showed in the best possible way that those who don't know what the state is, they don't know what the interest of the people, Alexander Vukic, they won't have any competition in anything, so in line with that, we'll continue to do what's being drawn up as a corridor to the future, towards good results for our country, we'll conduct Alexander Vukic and SNS politics, because that's what ensures that tomorrow in those historical readers that Professor Atlagic talked about, this time is recorded as the time when people who took care of Serbia were able to make the right result. And Gilasi, Miskovici and Solaci, they remain deep on the edges of this country's worst and darkest period right where they belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68115	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Is anyone else answering from the representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups? The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68116	Thank you, Chairman. At the very end of the debate on this agreement that is before us today, we could hear many positive things about the Republic of Serbia that will happen. From the reasons of the minister, we saw that the adoption of this proposal would be good for the state and for the citizens. Such proposals should be supported for our sake, but also for future generations who will live in an even more developed Serbia and who will be able to benefit from the benefits of some of the decisions we have made. We talked today about "a little Schengen", an agreement that represents the future because it offers the possibility of economic and economic development and major progress in different areas. We have also heard some objections and due to citizens should be said, little Schengen does not mean the actual recognition of Kosovo, because that is how Aleksandar Vukic would surely be the first man to declare it to the citizens of Serbia as he has introduced them to what "little Schengen" means and what it will mean to our country. I don't think it's right to serve the people something that doesn't stand. Alexander Vukic is certainly a man who, at all times, advocated national interests, but also has a great responsibility and must create an ambience in which Serbia will develop even more. To represent Serbia as a country where people live in isolation, as some kind of experimentation polygon, is very ugly and simply not true. Co-operation with other Balkan countries is very important, because we are connected by the potentials that we have and that we can focus on the common market, so we will strengthen every country, but we will also strengthen the region as a whole. The labour flow will be greater to allow current investors to expand jobs but also to some new, future investors to start jobs in the Balkan countries. This will mean, on the one hand, easier business for them, and on the other hand new jobs for citizens of all these countries. The foreign trade exchange will be bigger, and Serbia will be the strongest and biggest country on the market and of course it will benefit the most. To achieve the desired economic results in terms of growth and development without waiting for the EU to join, we are determined to do something like "little Schengen". We'll do what's up to us. We can team up with our neighbours and work together with them on the economic strengthening of the entire region. There is absolutely no reason not to support this kind of co-operation when similar agreements are applied by many countries in Europe and the world. It is known that economic co-operation binds neighbors and provides peaceful and stable relations if we observe these things in the long term. Peace and stability in the region are of great importance to us. We want and see Serbia as a symbol of stability in the Balkans and therefore have a unique opportunity to make another step towards strengthening co-operation and towards directing the strengths of all countries in the Balkans towards an economic improvement and a better future for all citizens. The attitude of the government and the attitude of the SNS towards the citizens is absolutely clear, we are fighting for the interests of all citizens. We are struggling to create a better life in Serbia, to build a better life with a stronger economy that will mean a better standard of living for each individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68117	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now the word has a minister, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68118	Dear People's MPs, no one sitting in these benches and no one facing their opinions, no one representing their programme is an opponent of neither Serbian citizens nor Serbia. All those who use assembly payphones as an opportunity to say what they think, to say what they believe, just help Serbia, just help democracy. That's why our present opinions are normal, natural, desirable, so the National Assembly should look that way. There's no anxiety here, there's no anger here, there's no hard words here, there's no raised tone here, people sitting in congregation benches represent what they've been chosen to do with their programs, which you may like, they don't like, but the most important thing is that they like your voters. When they tell you that you have the right to enter the congregation, you have the right to enter the congregation. Unlike those who use this congregation as only a means to obtain diaries, to obtain some cobwebs, wages, and to muddle their country from the congregation hall, they do not even have enough cheeks to come to the congregation and what they believe, if and what they believe, they say to their colleagues, they face the answer where they have asked the question. Therefore I am grateful to all of you for every word you have spoken, in conviction, and in the manner in which you have defended your beliefs. I'm glad, if that's what you can say, that we talked a little bit about the subject of our meeting today. It seems that no one will have a problem with opening another border crossing, that our citizens travel easier, that they meet their needs faster, that they simply have the state at hand. I'm glad and I can see that it won't be a problem for anyone, because I almost didn't hear a single word about it. We talked about other topics and I will not, of course, run from them, I want to say what my opinion is, and I want to say what the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, since I am authorized to speak in this National Assembly, in this high and respected House. A lot of words and times have been spent here on the Balkan Union. The Balkan Union has not been offered to anyone. There is no political connection with either Albania or Northern Macedonia, there is no connection to any of these countries, there is no Balkan Union, there is no substitute for the EU, there is no political agreement other than the need to make life easier for our businesses and our citizens, and innovation makes it more profitable, faster, better. Let's never stop believing in our Serbia. We are the ones who become leaders in the Balkans, including initiatives like this. Well, how long has it been since everyone else's been identifying us? So far, we've had to keep responding to other people's initiatives. Now, after a long, long time, we've been going one step ahead of everyone else, we're the ones who come with the initiative, and it's about the other. So there is no Balkan Union, there is no Yugoslavia, and besides, the Serbian people have twice invested themselves, their victims, their beliefs in the two Yugoslavias, and each time it has failed and broken down these countries the worst. We're all here, maybe only the youngest of us here didn't, invest some part of themselves in that Yugoslavia. We believed in this country, we believed that we were living with the peoples, who, by all means, believed that Yugoslavia was the subject of liberation, not realizing or teaching us not to understand that in Zagreb, 1941, Hitler's Germans were welcomed as liberators, not the Yugoslav Partizans in 1944. We believed wrongly, convinced that Yugoslavia was an optimal form for both our people and all the other peoples. That is why there is no Yugoslavia, as I hear it when some Ustasha politicians speak about President Vukic's initiative in Zagreb. This idea is not an ad hoc idea, President Vukic has been talking about for years. For years it has been talking about the need to expand the market, reduce customs barriers, reduce traffic barriers. For years, President Vukic has been talking about the need for our economy to be able to live better to work better, but now, not to wait for others to decide on it. You know, the Balkan Balkan peoples are the thesis represented by Knjaz Mihailo, the thesis represented by Svetozar Markovic, Svetozar Miletic, King Petar, King Alexander, it resulted in the creation of the Balkan Union, the first Balkan alliance, and when the idea was current, we were victorious, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria and Greece expelled the Ottoman Empire from the Balkans, when they were able to break away from the influence of Austria and then... Great Britain, which has always guarded the Ottoman Empire, as Bosphorus patients, but as someone who blocks the development of the Balkan peoples. So, Balkan Balkans, it is an idea big and by the rule of the Western Force, very rarely, very difficult to support, when it comes to the Balkan peoples, because it is an idea that says -- let's decide for ourselves. Why would anyone be against us deciding about ourselves? No Balkan Union, no Balkan Federation. The Balkan Federation was under consideration after World War II. She's gone and no one's offering it to anyone. The European Union has made it very clear and quite loud that it is not considering enlargement. What Serbia is asking for is that in no way does it bind us to either Northern Macedonia or Albania, you value Serbia as Serbia. What Serbia has done cannot be us in any integration process to be hostages to the work or work of Northern Macedonia or Albania or Montenegro. It's up to us to run our own policies and run our own business. You know, this is where the question of economic justification and these ideas was raised. The Republic of Serbia exports 557m euros to northern Macedonia, imports only 186m. In Albania, 119, nearly 120m euros, imports of only 36m euros. Well, wait, can't you see that there's room for our economy to sell more? Here, when we talked yesterday, among other things about the EU, and talked about it - let us turn to those who are less developed than we are, so that we can sell them our goods. So, what's this? Obviously there is room for our goods in northern Macedonia and Albania more than in some other markets, so when so, let's open it up. We believe in our Serbia, in our ability to win the contest, to leave, these paths open to us first. One of the esteemed MPs asked how many Serbs I think will settle after this in Drach or Valona. Let me tell you right now, none. I want them all to stay here and find ways to sell our products in Durres and Valona, find ways to invest their money and make good money. Opening roads empty the ground when you're weak, and it's full when you're strong. Well, I guess we believe in our Serbia's integrated capacity, I guess we believe in Serbia's ability to be strong. If we are not economically stronger and more powerful than Northern Macedonia and Albania, then we are really in trouble if we should be afraid of them. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, MPs, have you noticed that the only example is the time when we saw that the Shiplars had a fight with the Albanians about this particular idea? Do you see that officially Kurti and the entire Kosovo summit are attacking Edi Rama and attacking Tirana for this? If that's all I'd vote for this idea with two hands. It has never happened that Kosovo opposes Albania. Hashim Thaci tells the Albanian prime minister -- I won't come, you gave in to Vukic, and we're attacking Vukic for it. Well, if it was just that, I'd support it. Obviously things change and change in our direction. They're saying we're making a big Serbia. They fear that Serbia is coming, which is expanding, they are afraid that Serbia is in an economic, diplomatic sense there, which is stronger than it was. For the first time Pristina has said no to Tirana. That's all it is, so it should definitely be supported. Look who's attacking that initiative, and you'll see right away which way you should go, which way you should work. You know, we can't say that the sentence is that Alexander Vukic is silent on any attack on Serbs is correct. That's a lie. It's an absolute lie. There has never been an attack on Serbs, on Serbian interests that Alexander Vukic did not speak. Let's get back to the past. Aleksandar Vukic is the first prime minister since 2000 who has had the courage to stand in front of the collapsed General Staff building and says - we mark the anniversary of NATO aggression. Before him, no politician could say that. There's been NATO action, NATO operations, NATO campaign, God forbid someone says NATO aggression. The first politician of that format to have the courage to say -- Serbia will not enter the NATO Pact and there is no way to break me to do so. The first politician of that format who, when asked a direct question – will you impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, said – I will not and will not do so at all. And he wouldn't let anyone put him in a position to co-operate and trade with the Russian Federation. The first politician of the format who dared to say -- with Republika Srpska we will mark common dates, we will establish a unique cultural space, we will have joint textbooks, we will assist the Republika Srpska government, the Republika Srpska budget, we will open factories wherever Serbs live in both Republika Srpska and the Federation. I have been listening since 2012 that Aleksandar Vukic will sell Kosovo and enter the NATO Pact, so none of this has happened. How many centuries does it take to stop talking about what's not going to happen while Alexander Wolf is running this country? We can be quiet completely. Here we were reminded that the West spoke of President Milosevic, as a factor of peace and stability, and then of Kostunica, and he destroyed one and the other. We can be totally calm. Vukic, in the west, is spoken of with a lot of respect by those who have met him, but also by those who create a policy of great forces, a great force that wants independent Kosovo and weak Serbia, by attacking him with all their strength, by giving reports. You've seen the State Department report, which says Alexander Vukic is a politician who allows Russian or Chinese influence. You've seen how he's being attacked from the west, you see by demonstrations when they gather them, you see by which people attack him, you see which embassies attack him, you see which side they want to tear him down. And yet again, he is the only politician of that format who has the courage to say the same in both the East and the West, that when he talks to both the Russians and the Americans, he always talks about Serbian national interest and no other national interest, and that he fights exclusively for the Serbian national interest. There is no Balkan union, there is no Balkan Federation, but there is an opportunity for Serbian goods, there is an opportunity for a Serbian businessman to come, travel, make money, have. China can invest as much as it wants in Albania, Greece, even in Northern Macedonia, but if it does not have strong and free Serbia, if it does not have a Serbia in which Aleksandar Vucic allows itself to decide who her friends are, and who her enemies, these investments would have no value, because without Serbia, if the railway passes through Serbia, if the ports do not bind to Serbia, and the investments are not as lucrative and as good and correct as they are with Serbia. And again, Alexander Vukic is the first Serbian statesman of that format, the position he has told the whole world, in the first place in the west -- I will not stop working with China, and you can't make me stop working with China, you can't force me not to accept Chinese investments, you can't force me not to strengthen my army from both east and west, so you can threaten sanctions as much as you want. You can't say that in the government of the Republic of Serbia there are no people who truly love and work for the Serbian people. You know, Croats can make mistakes in many things, but they never made mistakes when they should hate Serbs who honestly work for their people. They recognize that. We can't say that it's just by chance that I'm banned from Croatia, as I'm banned from Kosovo and Metohija, wherever the Shiptari are asking themselves a question, so that Alexander Vukic gets up doing everything he can not come to Croatia. Well, that didn't come by accident. It came about the way we fight and the fight we fight. If I hadn't given a speech above the Sharan cave, on the marking of Jadovska horror in front of hundreds of Ustashas who came to protest that Serbs are even gathering in that place, that I didn't say who Aloysia Stepinac is and that he couldn't have the Vicar of the Ustasha army as a saint while he was... Jasen's children. Do you think the Croats could forgive the Serb? If we hadn't said that then, maybe the Vatican would have kept quiet, maybe everyone would have kept quiet, but we've launched a big and important debate they'll never forget. In this government are people who truly love Serbia and never stop a single thing. When did we keep Mila Djukanovic quiet? So, who started to be the Serbian people in Montenegro? Who built the Serbian house in Montenegro? Should I remind you what Andrija Mandic says about Alexander Vukic? That none of the King Alexander has ever done more for the Serbs in Montenegro. Well, do I know more about it or do the Serbs in Montenegro know when they speak and when they know something like that? It will be that we can trust them, just as we can trust all Serbs living outside Serbia when they come together and come when President Vukic invites them to mark important dates, including tragic dates from our history. All come to one with pride that they can finally be first in their Serbia, that they are no burden, but that they are loved, guarded, respected. First, Aleksandar Vukic said -- it will never happen again either Jasenovac, or "Storm", or Martovski pogrom. No politician who has such power, who has such a right to decide, has ever said that. Alexander Vukic cannot be accused of lack of patriotism and, most importantly, for action, for work, for helping Serbs no matter where they live. Well, of course, when you make so many highways, open up so many factories, bring in so many investors, Serbia can and must be grateful to you. You may not love him, it's your right. Politics gives you the right to look at things from different angles and that's fine, so it should be, but you can't argue that it's never been built and worked again. You just can't argue with that. You cannot argue that the Serbia Army is far more powerful than it was seven years ago. You can't argue. You can't argue that our security services are better and more developed than they were seven years ago. You can't deny that no one of these services, from the military to the MUP, the BIA, that each of them is not working, none of them are working on the dictatorship of strangers anymore. We don't have strangers asking questions anymore. That's why President Vukic can come out with this initiative, so he can come in, stop and say, we open up the possibility for our economy, we open up the possibility for our businessmen, we give them a chance to trade, to make money, to travel, because we are leaders in the region. It's what we finally become. The one who's afraid closes. The weak one closes. Whoever's strong, whoever can produce more, who can sell more, doesn't move. He can allow us to move. Anyone who passes through our country's territory will pay tolls, at least a fuel tank. Well, what's the problem? What's the problem with going through our territory, leaving the money here? And what's the problem that we can go anywhere? What's the problem with opening up extra? What's the problem? Let me tell you right now, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has faith in Serbia, has faith in our economy, has faith in our people. We can do it. We are the ones facing the Balkans, not us around the Balkans. And while Serbia is so successful, the Balkans will both be successful and peaceful. Alexander Vucic is the last free leader in Europe, the last one who can tell anyone what he thinks, the last one who can say I won't impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, I won't let Republika Srpska shrink in any way, the last free leader in Europe, the last one who can say he won't enter the NATO Pact and the last one who can say he's going to equip and arm himself wherever he wants and whatever he wants. That's why they don't forgive him, that's why he's suffering so many attacks, that's why he's going to be attacked on many sides, because neither Europe nor the great powers like free leaders, and that's just the way it is. Alexander Vukic is a man who runs peace policy honestly. I tell him many times in person, when we talk to him, that I don't believe every time on the other side he has honest conversants, that I don't believe every time on the other side he has people who honestly believe in peace, as he believes. Every time I tell him to think about how they'll react and how many times he'll think they can abuse his peace policy. I can't forget that in Srebrenica, when he came to offer his condolences to all the victims, all the dead, they welcomed him by trying to kill him, and to this day we don't know who tried to kill him. It would never have happened to anyone where the Serbian people are. It would never have happened to anyone where the state of Serbia is. That's why I can't say that his outstretched hand always has someone to give it to. Do I need to remind you how and how many times Croatian statesmen have felt good and welcoming here as well as fitting to the Serbian people who are a great and decent people, and as Aleksandar Vukic is welcomed in Zagreb, usually the demonstrations of the Ustasha or the threats that he will bring down his government if they only see him. Do you notice that in Croatia everyone argues about everything, except when they come to what they should do to Serbs and what they should do to Aleksandra Vukic. Many times when I talk to him, I tell him that I don't believe that there are honest conversants on the other side and that everyone wants peace just as much as he wants it. He is the last free leader in Europe and has the courage to fight for peace and has the courage to maintain Serbia's orientation and policy, he has the right to keep Serbia on track and peace and prosperity. Serbia will never allow anyone to lead it to conflicts and wars. We've fought enough. We just want to be ready and able to defend our country, protect our peace and be too expensive for anyone who thinks they can try to attack our country. That's what we're for, and that's what we exist for. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe, I firmly believe that you will support this proposal today, that you will help the citizens of our country to have another customs crossing, that you will give them the opportunity to finish their jobs faster, that you will give them the opportunity to feel good, that you will have the opportunity to live and work where they were born. I'm glad we didn't have any fundamental differences about this proposal. I'm glad we had a fruitful and contentious discussion, a good, fruitful, contentious discussion. I am glad that you have once again shown that everyone who sits in this assembly loves his country, will not harm it, and that no idea, however spoken in the National Assembly, spoken with respect to the talker, spoken with respect to the Republic of Serbia, has and cannot harm our country and our people. Our country and our people can only be harmed by those who use every opportunity to spit every effort and every work of the Republic of Serbia, to show us in the worst and worst light, that all our friends insult, hurt and send a terrible and offensive message that they should never and nowhere be with Serbs, because in the end they always spit in your hand, because in the end they always hurt you, in the end they always insult you. Whatever the minority may be, but that minority will use it to do so, it will always be used for such a thing, as used by this unfortunate spy Obradovic, who should show how good and normal data from the military factory is to bring and sell to foreigners. What private company are you allowed to take information and give it to the competition, and it should be a heroic act that comes from the military industry, from the military factory, you teach data to foreigners? In what country in the world is it called alarming, and where would not be spying? I'm sorry that Serbia has to discuss such things. I'm sorry we have to talk about people like that. I'm sorry that in this country, people like that can pass. I'm sorry you can make them heroes. I'm sorry we don't call things a real name. The one who teaches classified information from the foreign military industry is a spy and no different. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the time you've devoted, thank you for your tenacity, I expect your support, and you and I will see each other again tomorrow on another subject, but essentially the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68119	I thank the minister for his presentation. I am concluding a unique search of the bill. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. All I'm asking is that we determine the quorum before we continue to work. Please, honourable MPs, don't play with the card. Always someone throws in, throws out, and I can't tell if there's a quorum for further work or not. Once you've inserted in, please don't move the card again, because it's impossible to determine how many MPs there are. Thank you. 126 MPs are present. The Committee on Culture and Information pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that it be placed on the agenda of the session of the point – a list of candidates for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 December 2019. I put this motion to the vote and ask the MPs to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 125 MPs – no one who is abstention – who has not voted – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and placed this item on the agenda. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, and for that I must give a certain time of 10 minutes, because it is handed over at the office. So we continue to work on the application in about five, six, up to 10 minutes when the heads of the parliamentary groups finish their jobs. We'll get back to work right away. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on the list of members of the council of the REGIONAL BODY FOR ELECTRONIC MEDIA I am asking the rapporteur of the committee responsible, the MP Dr Mirko Krlić, does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68121	Thank you, Madam Chairman. To bring this job to an end for which the four committees have been sitting intensively these days, I will try to taxively specify everything that the Committee has actually done and what the procedure looked like. The Committee on Culture and Information, held on 27 November 2019, concluded that members of the Board of Regulators Miloš Rajkovic, Slobodan Veljkovic and Bozidar Nikolic, who were elected members of the Board of Regulators by Decision of the National Assembly on 5 May 2011, expired on 5 May 2017. Article 7. The Law on Electronic Media has established that the Board of Regulators has nine members who are elected from the ranks of prominent experts from areas that are important for the performance of the tasks of regulators and that proposals for member of the Board of Regulators are authorised, among others, and the competent Committee of the National Assembly, Association of Film, Scene, Drama Artists and Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia and National Councils of National Minorities. At its meeting on 27 November 2019, the Committee adopted a Decision to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates for the selection of members of the Council of Regulators for Electronic Media. The text of a public invitation to propose candidates for the selection of members of the Council of Regulators for Electronic Media was published on 27 November 2019 in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and on 28 November 2019 in the daily list "Politicals" and on the website of the National Assembly, was sent directly to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly on the same day. On the basis of Article 10(2), The laws, parliamentary groups in the National Assembly and organisations entering the circle of organisations that together form a single mandated proposal have submitted their proposals to the Committee within the prescribed time limit. In addition to the candidates' proposals, all necessary documentation prescribed by law and public invitation has been submitted. The Committee on Culture and Information, held on 23 December 2019, set out a list of candidates for members of the Council of Regulators for Electronic Media, as well as a list of organisations that together form a single mandated proposal, which were proposed by the following authorised promoters: the competent Committee of the National Assembly, the Association of Film, Scene, Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia and the National Councils of National Minorities. At the same session, the Committee set out a final proposal for two joint candidates of the Association of Film, Scene, Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia, which agreed at a meeting held on 24 December 2019 with a final proposal for two candidates for a member of the regulator. Finally, at a session held on 25 December 2019, the Committee held a public conversation with candidates for a member of the Board of Regulators in accordance with Article 11(8). The law. Of course, the Committee proposed that the National Assembly in accordance with Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall decide on the selection of members of the Board of Regulators for Electronic Media by emergency procedure, i.e. that the decision to elect a member of the Board of Regulators shall be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly that is under way, so as to allow for the smooth work of this body. All I have to do is thank all the members of the Committee on Culture and Information for their work. These days it was really very dynamic on the Committee but, behold, we have succeeded with the maximum contribution of all the members of the Committee who have made every effort to reach six candidates and to propose this to the tide to decide who will be members of the regulatory body. I will only take the opportunity because we have had the opportunity to talk to representatives of national minorities, they have also been present today, that they are especially, and, of course, to all citizens, and also to the viewers of our plenary session, I congratulate Christmas, to everyone who is celebrating it at this time, and I want the candidates to be chosen if, of course, I allow the tide to do the job that is ahead of them in the best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68122	Thank you. The first representative of the legislator group, Alexander Seselj, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68123	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we should go back a little bit to figure out what's going on here in this room today. We pointed out the non-democratic procedures and the work of the National Assembly that came down to one flow boiler, where it didn't matter if there was a debate, who was discussing, what we were talking about, whether we had a budget of 60 or 70 points of the agenda, it was only important to fulfill the form and no one was interested in anything else. Like the emergency sessions, there was absolutely no respect for any democracy, and no one was interested in it. We have indicated since the beginning of this call that the National Assembly should bring in a new Rules of Procedure that should give greater rights to opposition MPs, not to be limited, for example. for two minutes, and ministers can speak indefinitely, so that someone can be elected to the list of one political party, and then to the mandate, their dowry to become another political party to which it moves. We have had in this assembly several such people who have even changed the political party more than once, each time with all their mandate. You were, of course, all deaf, not interested, and then something happened this summer that changed from the roots, from the foundation of the work of the National Assembly. A group of NGOs sponsored by George Soros called for a meeting of the ruling party and pro-Western opposition parties. At that moment you forgot all your differences, what that Gilas stole, how he was a criminal, a villain, what he was doing, and they forgot what you were doing, what you did and responded, and in 24 hours he gathered you all at the same table, with all the orders that everything should be done from now on and what everything should be voted upon in the National Assembly. Not to mention that the National Convention for Co-operation with the EU is more important to you than any parliamentary group in the National Assembly, that you were just waiting and only needed a report from the European Commission to know and notice that something was wrong here, and until then you boasted and boasted that you were being tolerated, and you pointed out these anomalies, as far as the Rules of Procedure were concerned, as before you brought in DS, so here they have this Rules of Procedure. Since that meeting at the Faculty of Political Sciences, the ruling party's behaviour has changed. The ruling party is according to the coalition of NGOs, and I will remind you, these organisations that support the Serbian government, say they are working on Vukic's head, that they want to take down Vukic, that they want to destroy, destroy Serbia and what they don't want. It is the Open Society Fund, under the auspices of George Soros, it is the House of Human Rights, it is citizens' initiatives, it is JUKO, it is the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, it is the most famous Serbian traitors today in our country, it is those who have made these laws and have directed these orders to the ruling majority to be executed. That's why the REM Council is changing today. That's why before that, we had discussions about the law that primarily concern the election process, not because it was our need, but because it was your order. You have shown in this whole process a service, you have shown that you are fulfilling orders, dictatorships that come from abroad, because if you were interested in fundamental changes, you would listen to what MPs say, you would see for yourself what is wrong with the National Assembly and what is wrong with the election process. They would note that one presidential candidate has four times more time on television with national frequencies than all the other presidential candidates combined. That's not what anyone from Europe should have come to say, I guess that's what you saw. No, it didn't bother you, but you waited for a dictatorship from abroad through NGOs, who don't think Serbia is doing any good, and then you started going to meet it. Then boast, justify it and say it's actually good for Serbia. Now, that's a picture and an opportunity of all these events and one of the reasons, but the basic reason why we're discussing this today. I was at a meeting of the Committee on Culture. Members of the Committee on Culture, although there was and there was a debate, there was a time, but they all came with a warrant, had already come with someone else's opinion that they should vote. The least important is any biographies of candidates who are proposed. It has already been determined who will pass there and it has been a mere formality for the Committee to be held. What else have we had to hear in the last few years in this room? We had a chance to hear that the ruling majority's representatives here count who's in the coalitions at the local level, who's what, who's who, who's who, who's who, who's who's what, who's who's what, who's who's what, who's what, who's what, who's what, who's what, what we haven't heard about these coalitions at the local level. Of course, the ruling majority and SNS have never seen it from their perspective, so to note that in a coalition with the sudden Canka at the level of the town of Novi Sad, so SNS and LSV, in the Belgrade municipality of Vračar in the coalition are the SNS and the Liberal Democratic Party, and this candidate from the electoral list DS has flown into the advanced camp of LDP members and brought advances to power at Vrakar. In Priboj, Prijepolje and Tutina, the ruling majority in these municipalities is the SNS coalition and Sandzak's Party of Democratic Action. So it's that Suleiman Ugljanin, which he will never be given to a chair, we'll just give him local authority. But the same Sulejman Ugljanin, who tells Serbia that she is a fascist state, that Serbs except for having committed genocide in Srebrenica, that they executed it in Sandzak 1,000 years ago, that Stefan Nemanja is a war criminal, an open separatist who recognises Kosovo's independence, which we saw and scurred with those Kosovo Albanians that we are apparently fighting. We know about who this man is. Maybe it could have been said then, you know, local committees and local authorities aren't the republican level, people are dealing with municipal issues, problems that can be solved over that municipality, that doesn't mean our policy at national level is the same. When the ruling majority of the Committee on Culture and Voice Information for the LDP, LSV and the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak, there is no local level anymore. There is an open ideological closeness between the two parties i.e. those coalitions and those parties on the other hand. It is not the candidate for whom the advances have already voted by order, the best, but is the candidate candidate for candidate Milan Antonijevic and the Open Society Fund. So, these Europeans who have been here, MEPs, former MEPs who have been leading the main word in the National Assembly over the past months, these candidates have been willing to do so. Judita Popovic is an LDP candidate, LSV and Sandzak Democratic Action Party. The Progressive majority voted for the candidate to be elected to the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. It's already a republican level and shows your closeness, your coalition that you have with the LDP. For what other reason could you choose that person when she absolutely has nothing but references, except that she is a party of open Serbian traitors. The Liberal Democratic Party is one traitorous party with anti-Serbian politics. The party's president, Cedomir Jovanovic, has been primarily known for his involvement in crime over the past 20 years. From torn shoes and four teeth in his head, he became someone and something in Serbia, and then he became one of the most powerful mobsters and criminals, which lasts until 2019. He quietly supports the ruling majority and the SNS, because he knows if he does not support Vukic, otherwise he will be in prison because of all the machinations he has been working with these stock reserves, through the company his family owns. It's open from an account, no problem at all, it's not disputed. But it is controversial when advances take on the party's characteristics and characteristics because it is the worst thing in Serbia. The party calls on Serbia to recognise Kosovo's independence. The party openly says Serbs have committed genocide in Srebrenica. The party justifies Serbia's criminal bombing and openly advocates NATO's pact membership. The party tells Republika Srpska that it is a genocide. And you are in this way supporting this party and in the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media you did not appoint a candidate who was the proposal of your parliamentary group, but instead supported the candidate of the Liberal Democratic Party and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak. (Alexander Martinovic: We didn't even have a candidate. You should've had it, it might've been better than a member of the LDP. So, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, the same from that parliamentary group that the LDP, who proposed to this candidate, are your coalition partners from Novi Sad, at the level of the city of Novi Sad, are with them in the coalition. It is also one traitorous party, which calls for separatism in Vojvodina, also thinks that the Republic of Kosovo is an independent state and of course there has been genocide in Srebrenica. The Party of Democratic Action, we have already said about this, your coalition partners Sulejman Ugljanin from Pribo, Tutina and Prepolje, multiple times and ministers in the government and Aleksandar Vukic and representatives of the ruling majority have declared themselves to be one of the open enemies of Serbia and one of those who are in the coalition of this secret, together with the DS, and I don't know who they are with, who are working with Vuko about the head, under those nooses for Vukic and so on. You're voting for that candidate today. What does that say about you? This tells you that instead of doing everything you can not anti-Serbianly promote that opinion, that it does not have so much open access to the public, to indicate who these people are saying, you are going to cross the dictatorship abroad and to show that, first of all, it is important to you what Milan Antonijević, the Open Society Fund, the European Parliament, women in black and all of whom you have been doing all this in recent months, to show that you are the best responders to the pressures. It shows you don't have your attitude and your independence. It is more important for you that those of your Western partners who participated in your administration, when you were congratulated three hours before the polls were closed, although it was still voted in Serbia, it is important that they do not turn against you. That's why you're so embarrassed. The second party that proposed a candidate in the Committee on Culture and Information is a party that has been created since the stolen mandates on the list "Enough Has Been". You have spoken here several times about some members of the pro-Western parties, how they flew, how a certain person changed parties three or four times, as she works against Serbia, even the president of the National Assembly spoke about it, these Socialists submitted a bill on the selection of MPs, and you give legitimacy to a certain group of people found in the National Assembly by sending biographies to an e-mail. And now they've separated, with all the mandates that that list has won, and they now, according to you, have the legitimacy to propose anything and participate. Now this party feels something, this party is thinking something, and you're simply saying that the party's opinion is important to our public. I'm interested in one more thing. The Socialist Party of Serbia, your coalition partner, and some of you who were once in the SRS, how will you today, when you vote, or when there is a vote for it, vote for a person to choose in this council after Slobodan Milosevic, former president of the state, killed in The Hague tribunal, celebrate in Calemegdan by playing balloons and in necrophilic excitement, rejoiced in the streets of Belgrade? First of all, I want to know how the Socialists are gonna do it, but I'm also interested in what you're gonna say about it. They're people who are your type. These are the people you support, because we know that this party, the Liberal Democratic Party, no longer exists. You wouldn't exist if you weren't keeping her alive. The party's president won only two votes in his polling post where he lives and votes. Without you, this party doesn't exist, and you're bringing it back to life. Because this is important for your partners from the EU. And nothing else. Not because of the quality of REM, not because of political pluralism in Serbia, but only because you want someone to like you, you must not make anyone angry and not show your spine. You didn't vote for the Serbian Radical Party proposal. It was Dragomir Antonic, who is the best candidate on this list. It's your right, you can vote for whoever you want, but you didn't vote because he's a bad candidate and because he has no experience and because he's immoral or anything else, you didn't vote for him because he's from a patriotic mile, not an anti-Serbian one, because he's a national, not a traitor. Because if he had talked about the Srebrenica genocide, he might have been a favourable candidate for you, a favourable candidate for your mentors, and then you wouldn't have a problem. That is why today's SNS for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is voting for a member of the Liberal Democratic Party presidency. It's already open to your alliance. I also think the SRS doesn't think that the LDP means anything to Serbia, the Serbian people, and there's no reason for that new coalition of yours. I think you have shown that instead of Serbia's interest, that instead of what's good for Serbia, you are neglecting it and just implementing a dictatorship from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68124	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word from the authorized representatives? The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68125	Thank you, Chairman. Today we are in a position to choose after a long time, or to discuss candidates for the election in three unfulfilled seats in the REM Council. REM has been a topic in Serbia's political public lately. Very often the opposition hears objections to the situation in the media and the work of REM, but it is probably less known that the ReM Council and the work of that body are affecting their everyday lives, so I would take this opportunity to try to make this connection, so that I might make this debate more relevant for the citizens. The electronic media market is basically like any market. As the legality of capital market behaviour is controlled by the Securities Commission, which controls the legality of the behaviour of participants, let's say, on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, as the legality of the behaviour of market participants and the way they compete with each other controls, let's say, the Competition Protection Commission, and the legality of the behaviour of media service providers should control REM, therefore, the electronic media regulator. In our practice and in the history of our statehood, there is a constant tradition and tendency that the state administration through its ministries and other state bodies controls all markets, so that our independent regulatory bodies do not have the tradition and habit of resisting the influence of the state and its officials. Even too often in our public is considered to be completely and natural to involve the state in everything, even in the control of all markets, ignoring the potential of malicious influence of political centres of power, which by usurping the media can actually easily convince you that the state charity of three or five thousand dinars can represent the most that you actually have the right to expect from life, because the whole world, especially in our environment, is hostile and on the edge of war and decay, so the poverty in which you live is a completely natural consequence of all this and you actually form as a citizen a picture that you do not actually have any great expectations. That is why REM is important for the family budgets of citizens, because it is a crucial influence on their information and the formation of citizens' expectations. The purpose of the existence of the electronic media regulator is precisely to defend the inappropriate influence of political centres of power, primarily the impact on the editorial policy of the media, because the media, private or state, are nevertheless obliged not to violate the Constitution guaranteed by citizens' rights to true, comprehensive and timely information. Therefore, the independence of REM is crucial and important for the preservation of constitutional order and the rule of law. That's why it's important that REM not be exposed to the state administration, because then it won't be independent. It must be the fourth branch of government, independent of judicial, legislative and executive authorities, subject to judicial control only. When it comes to the way the Law on Electronic Media cultivates the independence of REM in its work, there are at least a few positions that are controversial. One is the approval of the general acts to which REM regulates its work, because according to the law, the statute must approve the Ministry of Culture and Information, the financial plan must be agreed by the Finance Committee, the Committee on Culture and Information, the price list by which REM determines the amount of fees that will be calculated by media service providers is also subject to approval by the Executive Authority and someone in the executive authority can easily say - this financial plan can be adjusted in terms of income and your earnings and the number of employees, staff and technical equipment on the lower and thus reduce both human and material and operational and financial potential of REM and put it in a somewhat independent position. Of course, what is ultimately and most problematic in terms of preserving the independence of REM is the legal methodology of selecting members of the REM Council and the fact that the political system ultimately gives a crucial voice to the composition of the REM Council, because whoever has been authorised by the candidates who are running for members of the REM Council, however they agree on the names and last names of their candidates, in the finality of the REM Council member cannot be elected a person whose choice of consent has not given at least 126 MPs in the plenary session of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is true that the election of the missing three members of the REM Council will in some way be the result of a political agreement, which raises the question of removing the political influence on the work of the REM Council and, in some ways, comes in favor of the argument that the political impact on REM will not be removed, but will only be differently balanced, but such is the existing law. From a little democracy up there, it's just a lack of democracy at all. So this can now, the selection of three missing members of the REM Council, can be the first step in a good direction along a thousand-step path, but the path of a thousand steps is passed by making the first move first. What is necessary is not to stop at this step, because, as I said, this is the fruit of a political agreement that occurred in the pre-election dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, which was implemented with the European Parliament's indirect services and the EU delegation in Serbia. The political agreement involves the replacement of two other existing members of the REM Council. Let us assume that this will be precisely the member of the REM Council who, by addressing the MPs of the National Assembly, who, by the way, elected him as a member of the REM Council, told the MPs – leave us alone. Personally, I think that this member of the REM Council, who, by the way, is the first to have the mandate, has run for office with such a relationship and insult to the dignity of the National Assembly to be one of those two who will be replaced. It is a pity that this has not been done much, much earlier, it is a pity that a defect in the law has been used that allows the National Assembly to, by simple abstention from the vote of the REM Council, be put in a situation that no candidate for a member is elected and that the composition of the REM Council in the mole assembly works for years, because there is no legal provision for how long a REM Council member may be unselected, or how long that place can remain vacant. All of this, in addition to what I have already said, is a defect in our legal solutions, and it is certainly something that the National Assembly has to deal with in the future to cultivate media pluralism and freedom of expression. That is why the Modern Serbia Party welcomes the announcement that also came from European representatives, who offered their intermediate services, and by the authorities who accepted it to continue this pre-election dialogue with the intervention of European institutions after the next elections. What I will say in the end, if the EU is to blame for helping us to improve our independent and regulatory institutions, make them more democratic, make them more resistant to political influence from whatever political power centre this influence comes from, from the government, from the opposition, from the judicial authority, from the executive, irrelevant. If this is the fault of European representatives, I thank them for intermediation services and for helping Serbia develop its independent, regulatory and all other state institutions and to improve its democracy, media freedom, freedom of expression and political pluralism at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68126	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Do any of the authorities report? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68127	Thank you. I think that, perhaps, I don't know, is it clear from so far, that this is one extraordinary procedure, one precedent of a kind, which tries to make up for something that has not been done so far, and what has been the obligation of both these Assemblys and these institutions to fill REM membership? I think it is clear, even to those who have been following the debates over the last few days, not only in the Assembly, but also in the assembly, that this has now, this hastily, some would say, hastily, the procedure largely, if not the main part, as a result of the political agreement and the result of the talks between the authorities and the opposition in the assembly, and under the auspices or by the intervention of the MEPs or the delegation of the European Parliament. So, we, after three years, do or now, these days, at the end of or before the end of this calendar year and this session, are going to do something that was required to be done there somewhere else in May 2017. For the three members of the REM Council that we will now choose, the mandate expired on 5 May 2017. The procedure for their re-election, or not re-election, but the choice of their successors, was to be initiated and implemented before the course. We're practically three years behind on something, and there wasn't a problem for us, or, I don't know, money, or pressure from the West, or the East, or something like that, but one, I'd say, part of the inert, and part of the wrong calculation, first of all, the ruling majority, because it decides. I can't deny the fact that these candidates, at least most of them, who have now appeared, people who meet, or most of them meet, the conditions, from their biographies, with one exception, by the way, be it said, are people who are in the media, who have a reputation in their profession and weight and have relationships, I say, with the media, which is very important when you choose someone in the REM Council. So, if the procedure were normal and common, it wouldn't be a problem if, in accordance with some affinities, political and personal, we were to define for someone who was closer to us, who we think would be better able to perform that function. Because, let's not forget, REM is one of the great institutions around which there is a consensus, and the authorities and the opposition don't have much to do here, that it does its job badly, and those that REM decides about or should have influence over. The ones that REM needs to regulate, above all, are electronic media, and above all national, or public service, public television, that it does its job badly to the Public Service. About the degree of criticism and dissatisfaction we can disagree with, in particular, disagree on what is wrong with work, let's say, a public service that repeats for those who do not know how to regulate REM or whose work regulates and coordinates REM. We disagree on that, but we agree that we are not satisfied. From the opposition's point of view, public service has for years ignored the opposition and favored the ruling party. From the point of view of some colleagues from the authorities and members of the Committee on Culture with whom we had the opportunity to talk, they repeatedly expressed their dissatisfaction because they felt that public television, or public service, actually favoured the opposition, although I do not know how they came to that conclusion, and not enough to promote the activities of the authorities. That's what I'd say, it can't be true either way. I think it's true what the opposition said, but whatever it is, we all agreed that the public service is bad and that whoever needs to regulate it, or not just him, but the work of the electronic media, the regulator, is not doing its job and is working at the very limit of a full-time decision because three years fills the number of REM members. It's not my decision or my decision or the will of someone on this side, it's an assessment or an inert or a failure of the ruling majority, it's not filled. Now, suddenly, as a result of this political agreement, as a result of the intervention and to say, the intervention of the European Parliament, the international mediators, is being conducted at an incredible pace. The day before yesterday, we had a session of the Committee on Culture, and yesterday these authorized proposings met to consider and determine the list, today the Committee on Culture has already found that, and today, after an hour of the Committee session, it is already on the agenda. So, it talks about one acceleration, which is obviously the result of a deal, I attended one part of it, of course, of this agreement and the promises, I meant a hasty one, I meant an unreality, but now it turns out that it is not and will succeed in those deadlines, the promises that the president, or the president of the assembly, made during the talks with the opposition, with the intervention of the part of the opposition that was present, and in fact the promise made to the representatives of the European Parliament. I thought it wasn't even the end of the world and that it was going into January and somehow a little bit, I'd say, the more realistic and normal the thing is over. Here there are elements of such a promised speed that will formally be met, that is, the deadline given by New Year's Eve will be selected by those three missing REM members. I'm not sure that this choice will fill in the qualitative or, at least to the extent necessary, fill in the legitimate hole, or the confidence hole, or the public trust gap that exists to the work of this institution. In fact, I am not talking about the opposition or part of the opposition that criticises them and who is dissatisfied and who has not even participated, at least not directly, but is indirectly in these talks with international, or European intermediaries. No, I think there is a fundamental dissatisfaction with the situation in our media and for those who know who is in charge and responsible, at least formally, that is this regulatory body for electronic media, or REM. In this way, the fulfillment of the obligation to fill that deadline after, I repeat, I stress three years when it has not been done, casts doubt that the political will here has again been crucial and decisive, at least within this deadline, even if this deadline is fulfilled, and perhaps during the candidate's election. These candidates, with the exception of one, so I say formally, meet the conditions, formally meet everyone, but also contentically that they can do that job, but I think the atmosphere in which this fills and I say the speed that that fills is happening leaves room for doubt or dilemma that, in fact, only in the fuller composition of REM will continue as the old one. I am not sure that people chosen in this way will have the strength, political will and capacity to stop this trend and this momentum and this passivity, in the best case of passivity, which until now REM, or this regulator, has shown and enabled the state of the media to be so coffee, is where, I repeat, it does not need to be confused with the mind, it is not REM, it is not the body that is responsible for public service, although of course, it has the most authority towards public service, according to state television, but it is the body that should regulate the work of electronic media with national frequency, and not just those who use the resources of public good, called frequencies. That wasn't the case until now. The situation in the media is catastrophic, and I think that, regardless of the changes I've made, then some colleagues have criticised me from the opposition that there's been a change in work, especially public television, or public service, that there's been some opening for the last year, that there's some more opposition, really on public service programs, and then they say it's not true. That is true, but I would say, if it were too little and too late, that opening, and that this is a media opening, unfortunately, that media opening, at least partially, the result, first of all, is two factors. Those protests that have been going on in Serbia for a year and last winter, including spring, seemed very serious and were also very massive, and then these interventions, or above all, these interventions and pressures from the international community, i.e. the European Parliament and the European Commission. So, not because the public service was the REM regulator solved and saw that things were not going well, and then changed his practice and his policy, but because the pressure, partly this street, and partly this institutional, international, resulted in these changes. That is why I, and I said so at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, will neither obstruct nor prevent the choice, but I will not actively participate in this fill-in of REM members. It is a job that needs to be done, is something that, in the case of most candidates, is a step in the right direction, but it is also a quick and obvious consequence of political agreement and pressure, above all I say, of this from Europe, leading to these changes, of meeting the conditions and filling this gap within REM, as this pressure has led to public service, media, however, or state television being slightly more open to opposition. Is that enough? That's what the citizens will judge. Is that enough to go to the elections it will be judged by those who have to go to these elections, but I have the strength to taste in my mouth that this positive shift and change is the result of external pressure, primarily external pressure, as if without it we couldn't agree, look into the eyes and say, even if we don't agree to the end and fully, that it's not normal to have such an important institution working for three years, so practically as long as the mandate of this Assembly, this alliance works on the edge of legitimacy, and at the same time it doesn't actively interfere in its business. In this regard, it is an institution whose members of the Council are not only members of the Council, but also employees of the institution are among the most convincingly paid officials, i.e. people whose incomes exceed multiple salaries, I think, both ministers and MPs and many other most responsible officials in the state of Serbia. But, independently of that, we had to show more sensitivity and more good will not to come into this seal, in this pinch, in real time, and then to fulfill that promise, I say to these representatives of the European Parliament, that, now, on this day, and these days before the end of the year, we fill those missing places. In the end, I just have to say, in the case of one candidate of these six proposed, I don't think of others as ideal, but they do, in the case of one candidate, we have a biography that has literally one sentence, but literally one sentence, which says she worked in court, Mrs Popovic. It was about her. She seemed to me in one of the previous discussions. She worked in court for 10 years, in a culture of 25 years, was a national MP in two mandates at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a total of five years, and served as vice president of the National Assembly. It is, I do not know specifically Mrs Popovic, I believe that she is doing her job well, but from this biography, not to say from this simple extended sentence, she does not really see what she recommends for a place so important, responsible and difficult as she is a member of the REM Council. Other candidates, I say, someone might like someone more, someone else, meet those conditions, as some of those who haven't arrived, i.e. who didn't pass that solution on the Committee on Culture. So the question can again be asked by which criteria this list of candidates has been established, among which the Assembly will decide, today, tomorrow, or the day after that. With high chances and high probability that this very candidate who actually doesn't seem to meet the congregation, not formally, conditions, is just being elected. That would again be the continuation of that bad practice, the one why REM came to these low branches and trust in that institution so much has fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68128	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68129	Thank you. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, there's one thing we should know, and if that's something that my distinguished colleague who spoke before me can't get over, because he couldn't possibly have been, not even a REM candidate, he's obviously interested in receiving REM members seriously, but I believe that even this biography of Judite Popovic, who really has a simple extended sentence that is even shorter than a statement of acceptance of a quality of content than his biography and recommendation, even if he wasn't an MP. I'm saying this for one simple reason, because I'm really more of a borderline of cynicism and hypocrisy than I can stand, I can stand to be silent, even though I've decided today not to speak at this point in the agenda. This just can't be played like that. The Socialist movement and I have personally had a longer period of time and have made it clear that we are not satisfied with REM's work, that I am not using any more serious words right now. We have shown about the attitude towards the Public Service by voting against the increase of the tax and the compensation for the work of RTS paid by citizens, not because of the people who work in RTS, but because of the management of RTS. There are some things we can't afford. The pressure on the side, as it wishes to say, or the pressure on the street, as far as we're concerned, has absolutely no impact, and I can confirm that for my colleagues from the SNS, since we participated in all these talks from this summer until the other day in the Republika Srpska Assembly. It's rude, to say the least, to try to present this phase that we came to for anyone's dictatorship. Neither SNS nor anyone can tell us what will be, least of all the EU and even less of the streets and that we are clean once and for all, and I really don't want to hear a single word about it anymore, especially not from those who talk about one thing in the Assembly today, and when we were there, they talk about something else entirely. Our position on REM was that the maximum of what the law allows and allows is to supplement it. As it began with the story of filling out the missing REM members, this summer the harangus against REM began, seeking a complete resignation of REM, screaming from the street, which should have not known what to produce, and in fact were the cries of Gilas and the School that REM was not touching. This may seem a little strange, but this is the kind of REM with six members, who didn't do his job when it comes to cross-border television, who wasn't doing his job when it comes to SBB and other cable distributors, as it should be, was only responding to Gilas and Šolak and to anyone else. So, don't act so naive in this story right now, and it happened too fast. This has been discussed for more than a year and a few days to fill out the REM composition until the full summons. In the end, the procedure that lasted lasted for 15 days, and even the Committee on Culture extended it for a certain period of time, which is very tolerated, and you would probably call it democratic, right, to supplement the bids. We did not object as a parliamentary group against it, even though we had a serious reason for it. The only candidate, if I am not mistaken, who has submitted all the documentation on time and whose documentation has been completed, is Mr Dragisa Kovacevic, who was the proposal of the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary club. Then probably on the Committee on Culture we wouldn't come up with a situation if the Committee on Culture proposed another two candidates. I have to say without any reservations or reservations, but of course, that's what happens in life, that you're the best and above all and the best of all, doesn't always mean that you're going to be chosen, that you're going to be in a position to vote, decide, and the Culture Committee suggested what he suggested. We've even been thinking about whether or not we're going to vote for any of these two candidates. But one thing in parliamentary life we have to respect, which is the fact that the proposings of one of these two candidates were present in the Assembly and actively participated in the decision-making of extending the agenda and including the agenda of the session of this point. I don't know what's hasty here, I don't know what's slow here? We can be dissatisfied. But every MP's club has had more than enough time to propose a candidate he believes meets the conditions. Did anyone consider this one simple extended sentence enough to convince us tomorrow that we are seriously considering this candidate? Maybe it is. Everyone has access to some stuff and it's his personal right. All the candidates who are here as possible, formally and legally meet the conditions and we cannot make any remarks here. Our subjective opinion of the quality of the man we've proposed is what he is, and we're not going to change him, and we think he's a man who was absolutely more than qualified to be in REM. Would that be good for him, but I'm not sure already, but of course he's as a former athlete accepted to enter this game and my God, they don't always win the best. There are other things in politics that sometimes decide and today we are here where we are. Once again, I want to say, we will insist on the Socialist Movement to clear up once already with RTS management. We are absolutely dissatisfied with their work, but not because we are not in the media. I'm listening to some of these powers that aren't even in parliament, they don't even have committees, they're not in the media, they're not at the Public Service, they're not anywhere. So with the letter and number of the Socialist Movement, for the past seven years, he had the opportunity to participate in only one political show, and since 2012, we have been in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. So, what? That's RTS policy. We blame RTS on other things, or RTS management. We don't think there's enough culture, that there's not enough education. We resent them for having to pay, those who agreed to pay, I didn't, to watch the team games, to watch Star games or Partizan some so-called. In cross-border television and channels, we resent them. We resent them for spending their resources on investing in raising the excellent quality and interest of the audience in Serbia for some series, and then suddenly those as houses and institutions were not interested in participating in the second series will probably be uninterested in the third series. Don't make fools of us. What RTS management is doing is really mature for a thorough investigation by the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. So, don't tell me a story about how there's no RTS on this one, there's no RTS on that one. Every day in the parliament of gentlemen who fell from the street and asked for two minutes in the diary had the opportunity to present their political views in a direct and uninterrupted transfer here in the Assembly. What's the problem? Well, he can't help them for these, or any next election, or that they're just 24 hours at the Public Service. They don't have a program, they don't have results. Mortgage that drags behind them, so precisely in the interest of the ruling set, if I may say so, or the ruling coalition, to keep them as far in the media as possible. To remember how red-bearded pirate worked when he was mayor of Belgrade, how from torn jeans and shoes he became one of the richest citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's not joke about it, that same Gilas, so he kept quiet, he didn't care about politics until the moment he was able to buy the PKK for small money. He got mad at me. He didn't manage to kidnap the PKK when he was mayor, and now he couldn't take it for some small money and now his whole world is to blame. He can't. Enough kidnapping, enough kidnapping for over a second, minutes, countless commercials. We watched a lot of people beat up pensioners in Ralja because they asked him when he'd get water or something useful would happen there. To tell you the truth, I didn't think I'd be sorry if this rent and the DS agency fell apart in parades. I really couldn't believe I was going to live to see it. Gilas has shown that he has a very good wire. He realized that DS wasn't supposed to buy, he rented them. A train, brother, around whom he arrives, as he arrives for small money. Now this forced, bankrupt, liquidating DS manager, who he bought for a salary of, I mean, told me 85, 90,000 dinars a month, unless he got a little bit of money laundering through the Ljuba Davidović Fund, made me spend 70 cars, because they're no longer in driving condition for him. The man seems to have some good wire to assess what he needs to buy and who he needs to buy and who you can buy for a little bit of money. He managed for very small money, for fictitious debts, for imaginary interest to buy this rent and for the agency, to buy the silence of their MPs, to buy the councilmen, to slowly unload them, to resell them, to do with them whatever they want, and I take off his hat on it. He's a good man. He knows so well that even I began to feel sorry for DS. It's just amazing, I don't believe what I'm saying or how I feel. It's not for nothing either. Dragan Djilas paid 260 euros to the Ljuba Davidovic Fund. From that, they had to wash 195,000 euros and give it back. Sixty thousand Evars have been paid by officials who serve the work of DS, back salaries, expenses, taxes and contributions, and now the question is – where has this bankrupt, liquidating manager “the stray” been found? Is that any more reason to listen to Gilas unspeakably now, or are there some other things that he's got in his hand with? It will be interesting in some future period, and I really think this is interesting for some other organs, not just for discussion in the Assembly or comments. You know, if it's the expansion of democracy to pay 700, 800, 900 thousand dinars for a single gig at the market, the owner of that gig, and pay something that has nothing to do with anything, and it's not interesting to the tax authorities, then I'm starting to worry a little bit about our tax authorities, so here, to help them. Soon I will submit, as soon as we have finished these regular sessions and come to a little time, criminal charges and ask that their work, as we have spoken to REM openly, as we have spoken to the European Parliamentarians openly, is extremely incorrect that they have violated the principle of the talks we have agreed, which is that they have conducted negotiations and with those who did not want to sit at the same table, but I have said that it is not a problem for me that they represent their interests, but let them say honestly that they have decided to represent what they are looking for and this alliance for, as it were, has a shorter version, I have not well remembered it, I will remember later probably. Therefore, they were not fair or so, but at the end of the talks, and also to conclude this story, these talks with EU gentlemen were very useful, which was learned, and I must admit that I was free to offer them good services, as they offered us their good services, to offer them good services of the Serbian parliamentarians, to give them Bregzit as painlessly as possible and easier to pass. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68130	Thank you. Does anyone else report from the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68131	Thank you, Chairman. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to ask once more of my distinguished colleagues to be serious and responsible and accurate when we talk about both REM and the media and everything that we do in this whole business and in this whole procedure. It would be good and responsible, first of all, if we had the same standards and the same archaics on this issue, regardless of which side we sit in this room and whether we're the government or we're the opposition. It is important for citizens to know, as so many polemics and confusing appear in the public, often very incorrect information about REM and what it is about the selection of members of that independent body. Just let me explain to the citizens that they know and make it as clear as possible. In 2017, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, held on 10 January, it was concluded that the members of the Regulatory Council for Electronic Media pointed out the mandate of 5 May. In accordance with Article 10 of the Treaty on the The law on electronic media. A procedure has been launched to select new members of that regulatory body. Therefore, the promoters were the Association of Film Scenes and Drama Artists and the Association of composers, the committee of the National Assembly and the National Councils of National Minorities. The procedure was initiated, a colleague of Vukadinovic's, 2017. We have even come to the fact that on many occasions we have scheduled talks with candidates for membership in this body for various reasons. Some are so banal that it might be stupid to mention them here right now, and the candidates couldn't agree on their terms, so that they would appear before the members of the Committee on Culture and Information, etc. So, a precise formulation, it's true that we choose REM members, it's true that it was our job, as it is true that the procedure was initiated in accordance with the law and in time. It is also true that we have launched this procedure for selecting missing members in time and in accordance with the law and that these legal deadlines are fully respected. This time we even extended the deadline for delivering complete documentation to all those candidates who didn't do it originally. As I said, the public is often confused with incorrect information and in our Committee on Culture and Information, whose member I am, but also here there is a colleague who, not only knows not the law and procedures, but who bring in a serious confusion to the public about how certain candidates have even applied to the race for REM membership. So we've heard that one of the candidates we're talking about today doesn't even know he's proposed for a candidate, which is absolutely incorrect, if it's known that candidates have to sign by hand to accept membership in that body. So this was very important to clarify so that the citizens would know. So all the candidates had to accept the candidacy before they... The People's Messenger throws it away. ) Zoran Simjanovic, one of the candidates, had to confirm by hand that he accepted the candidacy. In public, it has been said that he is a man and he does not know that he is proposed for a candidate, which is notorious untrue and very irresponsible and irresponsible behavior of colleagues who have spoken of it in this way and I hope that we agree on that. Another very important thing. I agree it was our job to select the missing REM members. That doesn't mean that body wasn't able to work. So with six members of nine, REM could also make those decisions that require a two-thirds majority and that's fair to say. That doesn't mean we don't have to choose them. Of course not. But it is necessary to be precise and to tell the full truth as it is clearly explained in the law. But it's our responsibility to keep telling citizens about it. In this regard, it may be my personal, greatest grudge to the work of REM. I think they had to communicate a lot more with the citizens and explain what their jurisdiction is, what it is, and what it isn't. Then a lot of things would be clearer than in the first place that REM doesn't have the ability to impose sanctions. This is the idea that in some subsequent changes to a set of media laws, because we are also waiting for the adoption of a new media strategy, which is why we will have to approach and change media laws, and that is the idea that we may consider and extend the powers of REM, so that when they have the opportunity to punish the lawmakers, they may also be experienced in another way and perceived their role and what they do in public. As I have said more than once, not only in the plural, but also in the Committee's sessions, I will repeat that even now, it is important to remember those same archaics that I mentioned at the very beginning, so it is important to remember how the reform of the media scene and the sphere has been going since 2000, especially when we talk about REM. So the reform was extremely slow with a series of problems that followed and made laws, as well as their application. The authorities refused to fully give up formal and informal media control mechanisms, and that is the truth we must very responsibly point out, no matter which side we were on at that time. The work was reluctant to settle the media scene and comply with European standards, and in the full public interest. The legislative and executive authorities were also very inefficient. The lengthening of the establishment of independent regulatory bodies in the field of broadcasting and telecommunications was among other things and a reflection of the lack of political will for this area to be seriously arranged and I believe and thank you for agreeing that we would agree very easily on this too if, of course, we want the work that the citizens of Serbia have entrusted with us today to do responsibly and seriously. So, the Law on Broadcasting, which introduced an independent regulatory body, was adopted as early as 2002, has been amended four times by 2009. It formally and practically started working only in 2005 after two changes, and then we had two more. A total of four. The lack of proper regulation has enabled political and financial abuse of media space, as well as smooth broadcasting of inadequate media content. It was only 2009 that it started to work as a professional service for analysis and surveillance within the then REM, or Radio-Difuge Agency, as it was then called. We were very late in the process, and today when we talk about it, someone who doesn't know the whole situation would say that we can't solve this problem five decades ago. That's not true. The laws have been corrected. Data are bigger and wider powers to REM. We're all here together to be responsible and seriously instructed, control their work, which we also haven't done enough. You're saying, pal, you're not going to be actively involved today. You are actively participating, and this is good, as is good for us to discuss this at the meetings of the Committee on Culture and Information, which have recently been attended mainly by members from those political parties that make up the parliamentary majority. That's not good. It's okay if someone doesn't want to participate, but then they legitimateize themselves and say, "I don't want to participate in the work, but then there's no, how can I tell you, it's irresponsible to talk about what's done, and what's not because you know how much we've talked about all these issues at the Committee on Culture and Informing sessions and we've achieved the agreement that REM has to do better, that it has to be differently placed in certain situations and that our role, besides the rest, is to help where there's space, there's been changes and additions to the law, whether it's giving these broad powers. So you need to be serious when talking about it because today these are the topics that create an extremely large and unnecessary confusion in public. So, as I said, the work on this new legislation in the previous two decades, decades, decades and a half, was non-transparent and controversial at the very least, as well as the work of the electronic media regulator. It was late in all these possible processes. In 2014, when we passed a set of these media laws that were for the first time fully in line with the EU's regulatory countries and all those developed democracies that we are seeking, we have today a list of six candidates, six names. These are good candidates, people of careers, people who are highly recognized, respected and famous in their professions. It should be said that whoever we choose, I don't think we'll really make a mistake this time, and Nenad Zoric, Judita Popovic, about Zoran Simjanovic, Bozidar Zečević, Dragomir Zupanac that I don't speak, I know the other candidates less, some of them very, even personally because we worked together and we encourage from the same primary professions. So I won't read or explain the candidate's biography. It is very clear that it is about exceptional media professionals and people of integrity who truly, I believe, will improve the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I would remind just once again, more because of the public, we should certainly know that members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulators are independent and independent in their work, that REM exercises public authority in order to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, to contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression in order to protect the interests of the public. In their work, REM does not represent the views or interests of the authorities, i.e. the organisations that have proposed them, but does their duty on their own, by their own knowledge and conscience, and in accordance with the law and powers, and it is understood that they must not individually represent political, or any particular interests. No one has the right to influence the work of members of the Council in any way, nor are they obliged to respect any instructions relating to their work other than decisions of the competent court. The regulator makes sure that all software content respects the dignity of personality, human rights, and especially that they care about not showing up, humiliating treatment and scenes of violence and torture in the media. These are, dear colleagues, just some of the powers of the REM Council that arise from the Electronic Media Act. They answer to us, of course, for their work. To the National Assembly, and what I want to draw attention to this opportunity, is the need for us as MPs and for the next period to be much more engaged in more serious and quality analysis and control of REM's work, which is also the role and by law, but also according to what the citizens have given us the mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68132	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, again on the issue of electoral conditions in the broader context, and I remind you, that the moment, but literally the same day that members of the former regime began with their unsuspecting campaign in the direction of absence, allegedly appropriate electoral conditions, there are no allegedly appropriate democratic standards, there are no adequate freedoms for people to declare themselves in this country as they wish, yet we told them - you are involved in your own lies, in the end you will have to eat your own lies, yourself in these lies to catch, correct, and eventually you will have to live with that people laughing at you. And, as we said then and pointed out literally every, but literally every aspect of the electoral process, we have no problem with having as a starting point, but only the starting point, a few years ago, we take these laws, which you liars, the frauds of the former regime adopted and brought, that under these conditions, we not only organise elections, but that each of them further improve, and we have no problem with that, because of course we will always win because there is something that people will vote for, and that is not the question of whether they will be by your member, paragraph or by something that you have come up with in the meantime that we can do a little bit more, but we have a little more to do with how they work, what results are being achieved for the country and for the people and what future for this country. They didn't want to listen, and it turned out literally, as I said in each of the segments of the election process, each of them was improved in the meantime. To return to somewhere in the middle of this month and the last meeting, the dialogue that took place in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is about interpartial dialogue, and on the topic of election conditions in the presence and with the mediation of members of the European Parliament. When that meeting ended, surely our people remembered it well, they heard the relevant conclusions. What has been achieved, as far as we've arrived, and what is expected for the next period? And, to remind you, on that day, but literally that day, the National Assembly had already adopted a complete set of laws that all in turn required members of the former regime, all those gathered today around Gilas, Šolak, Miskovic, their Dvori, their remains DS etc. A complete set of laws on which they have been trumpeting for months, say more than a year, so we believe them, for which they have gone on both the head and God and the people that they have to change something about funding political activities, have adopted, that we have to change something about the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that we have to adopt, that something must change about the work of public enterprises, to introduce more drastic penalties, to introduce stricter deadlines, all of which we adopted, even then and that day, and yet the next conclusion comes out of that meeting – that the establishment of a supervisory board is expected to be expected to define the date of elections by the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, and of course fully in accordance with his constitutional powers, to expect the selection of missing REM members, the Council of REM by the end of this year. And, look now from one to the other, from these three or four principles, which are then confirmed, we only have new additional convincing evidence that they lied all the time and Gilas and Šolak and Miskovic and these, that they are some, allegedly, as problems and allegedly as controversial things related to the election process. If we've been telling the truth all along, those of us who claimed none of it are really interested, they're just trying to make up an excuse for themselves to figure out why they won't go to the election, and we know they won't go to the election, because they're aware they don't have any support. The Supervisory Board, just a few days ago this National Assembly voted. That committee was formed and formed after 20 years. So, since 2000, for the first time, and those who lied that something was terribly important to them have not once honored to form this supervisory board, and here we are. And not only that, let me remind, of five members, as proposed by the National Assembly for the Supervisory Committee, three members, so most of those five, have proposed parliamentary groups belonging to the parliamentary opposition. So much for whether we fear something, whether we fear something, whether we have something to hide and know all the nonsense they say. Meanwhile, the president of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, confirmed in recent terms how the Constitution and the law require it, will reveal when the 2020 elections are held. So it's literally going to be as much space as the Constitution allows and they've been looking for it and as you've seen, we don't have any problem with it either, and they've got it. Of course, there's nothing wrong with it now, and now it's all very little for them. They asked for the full composition of the REM Council, the missing members. We said, "It will be a new year ago, and look what is the date of this day. We are discussing this today, and in this session, which is under way, we will make it clear. We'll vote. By the way, they also asked for a regulation to be adopted, to adopt a specific guideline for the conduct of the media by REM, and all of this happened in the meantime. There are public debates currently under way, but when we talk about this proposal for the missing members of the REM Council, each MP has a proposal before him, by two names by each of the laws of authorised applicants. What is interesting is that the citizens of Serbia, in that section proposed by the National Assembly's competent committee, was explained here by the chairman of the board, Mr Krlic, about an hour ago. In that part, there's a two-name proposal in front of this tide. One of those two names will be elected by the National Assembly in voting day. To hear Serbian citizens, Nenad Zoric and Judita Popovic were proposed. Both proposals come from parliamentary opposition parliamentary groups. Whoever the MPs vote for will vote for some of the parliamentary opposition's proposals in the day of the vote. Now, if there's any more proof that we don't have anything to be afraid of, not that there's nothing to worry about and what to fear, we're absolutely sure that it can't affect the fact that this is a democratic country, that there's no free vote here and that according to the undisputed will of the people and the result of the election will be shown, as it all means, as it all goes. So we have no problem putting the proposal 100% defined by what they had to say, propose, comment, whatever you want, representatives of the parliamentary opposition. Connect this with information that the Supervisory Board is in the majority, so in three out of five members in the same way proposed and voted, and you will be fully aware of who has here to run or fear, or not. As for these people, therefore, these Gilas, whom you have seen, have nothing to object to, but when concrete solutions and results come to pass, then nothing is wrong with them. It was more than interesting to read their answer and comment on what happened in Serbia in the meantime, on what will happen at this session. Their response was addressed to representatives of the European Parliament in which, under one, they whine, they are literally crying, why they have even heard an assessment that major progress has been made. Why do all of us who participated in this interpartial dialogue come out with a view – yes, it's agreed a lot, some will say a lot, some will say not so significant, but everyone will say – that progress exists, that we have led to a few things, important things that we have never had before, which we have never had, including this supervisory board and all of this we talk about. But the terrible pain of those who have shown that their only relationship to any dialogue in this country is to break the entrance to the National Assembly with shouts - burn it down and burn it all. Why did we even conclude that progress was made? So they wrote better to the European Parliament and said – it is not true, so you from the European Parliament are lying about any progress being made. They say - the situation is drastically worse in the meantime. Here, he says, for example, in the media, they probably mean that in the meantime they refused three or four or five, God knows how many, different strike terms at the national hosting services that they were offered, openly refused and said, no, we're not going to get there, we're not going to do those shows. Now, it's so much worse in the media that they've started to open up to show that none of it actually interests them, that we're talking into the blank. They say -- there's a lot more pressure on voters. Probably by adopting more punishments if anyone dares to do such a thing by defining what is legally unacceptable from the point of view of the so-called. function campaigns, which are resources that cannot be misused, all of which now means much more pressure, but in their time, you all remember how well and how nice. Then they take the orderly item per item, and they tell the European Parliament – Serbia does not need training from officials to update the voter lists, etc. What can you do but smile from the heart at all that? Because they say, for them, the Bible is their 42 plus six demands and recommendations, you know how it is. Then you open it, and because they already tell the European Parliament, so they teach them brains there – we don't need any training for the officers, and you open those 42 plus, God knows how many, and turn to the side on which it writes – the electoral list, in that chapter under point six, what they require – the organisation of permanent training for employees in municipal city administrations that update the electoral list. So they're looking for it, and they're telling the European Parliament -- that's nonsense, nobody's interested in it. Just to see what level of intellectual work this is about. Then they say to the European Parliament – there are no fair elections provided by organisation of public hearing on how REM works. So, what we're going to do is we're actually doing a public hearing on how REM works, and then you take this to what they swear, this 42 plus, god knows how many, head REM point eight -- in the period until the National Assembly's election to organise public debates, or public hearings about REM work. So they're looking for it, without it, they say, there's no free choice, we're not going to the elections, and they're writing to the European Parliament -- that's nonsense, there's not such fair elections being provided. What can you do but laugh? Be careful now, he says – the selection of new members by procedure as the members of the REM Council have been elected so far does not mean anything. So they're not interested in this job that we're doing today, the selection of new members, and at least in this existing procedure. It's a disaster and it doesn't mean anything. So again take these 42 plus, as long as you want, and in point two in the same chapter you see what they are looking for, what they are ultimizingly demanding – to launch an effective procedure for selecting new REM members with respect to the existing procedure. What can you do but laugh? They want new members of the REM Council, with respect for the existing procedure, and here they write to the European Parliament – a choice, and that by the procedure that has been implemented so far, that doesn't mean anything. Do you think it's over? It's not. There's always more. They say – they see no purpose for discussions on clarifying the rules of political advertising in the election campaign. And then you take and you see that somewhere under their six-point, they're asking for a new rule, to limit the functioning campaign, and limit the time for paid political advertising. They demand to define and limit political advertising, write to the European Parliament – what policy of political advertising, that is all nonsense. When you look at this thing, and what you can do is figure out that these people are just talking nonsense all the time, just lying to a load, just trying to figure out that they're interested in something here. They ask for one thing, and then they say the same thing – it's nonsense. Others are looking for, and they are telling the European Parliament – nobody is interested in it, it doesn't contribute to anything. What do you say than, people, if this isn't behavior at the level of immature children, it's no better than that. The essence of their demands is likely reflected in the very conclusion of their great letter. They're asking to become members of some kind of transitional administration. So, in order for people to understand what that means, they want without a choice, without a single vote to become members of the government. They're asking to become ministers. They demand to become corporate directors, whatever it is and as managers in local self-government. So let them be given power and it takes them how well they write here for at least nine months. It takes them so long to achieve some life's happiness and then everything can, then everything's fine. As for this other one, it can be thrown and the cat hangs the word. It's their wishes. Their goals and intentions are under regular number one in these demands, so this 42 plus six, which they themselves don't know what it is and as you can see it doesn't mean anything to them, under regular numbers one has to commit the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, not to participate in an election campaign on the side of any list, it's one among the requirements. Among the recommendations, under regular number one, first and foremost, the same thing, to Alexander Vukic to be banned from participating in the election campaign in any way. Well, then maybe there's a chance for them, because winning Alexander Vukic's election isn't at all a question under these or those conditions, in democratic elections, they can never. Besides, they say it themselves. You remember for sure that Jeremic's official Gajic, he said it openly, in the middle of the political stands recorded by cameras on five sides, he said literally words – we can beat Alexander Vukic in the elections, we can't because in this country, there he is going to insult the people, live 60% of the functionally illiterate people, and they are his believers and they will vote for him. So they admit they can't beat Wolfie. They admit that 60% of the people will vote in this country, and they add, by the way, that some people are less valuable, illiterate, credentials, sandwichers and trades, so that's why they don't choose them so beautiful and smart. It has nothing to do with any coalition. Whoever we choose here, it's just going to be an indicator of our good will, but also complete certainty that what we're doing is maximum good, that what we've done out of the results is so convincing that surely the people will be able to just say one significant and convincing yes. All who have debated the topic today – whether someone has forced us to do this, whether this is a conspiracy of the world government, of the Illuminati or of the Martians, by participating in this procedure, by making their proposals, they have practically given the legitimacy of all of this and there is nothing wrong and nothing controversial about it. It's commendable that it is, and what anyone here is going to say and how to evaluate it, it's his right, and I'm not going to interfere with it any further. These Gilas will continue to whine at all mouths, all this sucks, none of these candidates are good, they're all Vukic's listeners, even when they're 100% members, or representatives and suggestions coming from the opposition, but to know Serbian citizens, those Gilas who are going to salt your mind again, should be replaced by all REM, all the REM people need to be some new ones, some of them. These leeks didn't have the courtesy of delivering at least one piece of honest paper with the proposal, would they want REM replaced? What didn't they suggest? Why didn't they send a single paper on that subject? Here, look at the site, look at the acts proposed, not today, but in the last three months, six months, a year. They couldn't care less about everything, that they didn't even honor the signatures to collect. It's hard for them to come to this room, it's hard for them to participate in the debate, it's hard for them to ask for explanations to the people themselves, it's hard for them to make a proposal. Why didn't they at least formally deliver to the office to ask to change what they're asking for to be replaced? The representatives of NGOs said three months ago – well, why didn't you make a proposal but just talk about it? You think something's changed in the last three months? It's nothing. They can come here at the cashier's, they can sign up for travel expenses, they can come to hold a press conference, so in the most pointless, most brutal way they insult their country, insult their people with stories by some fictional how, you imagine now, Serbia buys the friendship of other countries, buys the withdrawal of recognitions so-called. Kosovo. That's not hard for them to do, they can, and they can deliver to the office a request for everything they say in their media day and night, because they obviously can't accept their salary here to do something like that, but on the one hand they're just talking, on the other hand they're just taking it from the register. They obviously don't get apartments by Santa from people's couples like Bosko Obradovic, in order to earn it by some concrete move, do it. No, on the one hand, they're just talking and they're breaking the door to the Assembly, and on the other hand they're just taking apartments on Santa. They and those travel expenses they only take because they want them to, they can't even get to the office to make a proposal, they can just walk around, they write that they were, and they weren't, and they put the money in their pocket again. A lesson for them – REM in full composition after this session, or in any other session, cannot help them with a few things. One, it cannot convince the REM people that thieves and secises suddenly became some people who appeared yesterday, who have no history in this country, who did not rob 619m euros as was the case with Dragan Gilas. REM can't do that to them. Secondly, REM can't make as many TVs as they are, and last night some of them, from Sergei Trifunovic, will hear tonight and Vuk Jeremic, all at public service, can't make them sound convincing. Thirdly, REM cannot make those in a duel show with SNS representatives from those duels come out as winners. That REM to help can't. There's no help here. Fourth, let it be the last for the end, REM does not dictate the results of the election, REM does not decide how the people vote, but the people vote as the people will, based on what they see. Well, when he sees that there are increased salaries and that our plans are serious to increase them further, so when he sees that pensions are increased and that our plans are serious to increase them further, so when he sees that there's a highway where there's never been, he sees that there's a factory in that place before Alexander Vukic and God forgets it, so when he sees that the state is developing in every segment, on that basis the people vote, not based on what he says or doesn't say REM, or if you want any third St. Peter. Lastly, there is no way, and this REM cannot help them, to convince some people in force that Gilas, Šolak and Miskovic are good and honest people who want anything good to anyone else in this country, or if you want on this planet, except themselves. They will not be able to help those who are deeply aware of how things stand, whatever they say, and therefore they will not be allowed to go out to the elections. We will have only one good reason to say: We have fulfilled everything we have said, and you liars, powerless and pestilences, you continue to choke in your own lies, for the better you have never been. You never beat Alexander Wolfie, nor will you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68134	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, appear to have spoken in a word, we are moving in order for the MPs to apply for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we have received one of the results of the talks under the auspices of the European Parliament's Council on conditions of elections and we have a very effective and rapid reaction to the change of several REM members. Although I do not expect that anything spectacular about some essential effects, it is very important that we have had the phenomenon of understanding by the ruling majority during these talks, where there has actually been a willingness to make concessions and where there are real arguments that election conditions have not always been fixed, but also where there are no convincing arguments, but it is certainly important to give in and prove that all the demands concerning pre-election, or election conditions have actually not always been established, but they have a different background, but certainly a lenient in this sense is very good. This doesn't diminish the importance of REM. It is important that we have as high-quality people as possible and I believe that the selection of the proposed REM members will certainly improve this quality in some way, because change is always useful, it always refreshes, that certain opportunities to pay attention to any shortcomings, like when you regularly paint the house, then if you will at least move the furniture and dust under the furniture. So, in this respect, we will support the selection of new REM members. True, there are things in the media space that need to be fixed. There is above all something public service that needs to be approached seriously, although I cannot join the kind of objections heard by the opposition, but the objections that exist are objective from the corner of national communities or national minorities, especially from our Bosniaks. What happened a few months ago, that the RTS Council rejected the requirement to include emissions in the Bosnian language in the RTS programme, especially the explanation that we then received is something that was disastrous for me and for me it was inconceivable that it could happen in a modern state in the 21st century here in Serbia, especially that we have constitutional principles and legal norms that despite certain shortcomings, those fundamental rights guarantee. What would be the minimum obligation of those responsible in RTS, as well as in all other public institutions and bodies, is to respect the legal, or constitutional provisions, and to listen to some of the recommendations of the unofficial bodies of certain intellectual groups that give themselves the right to be above the state authorities, above the Constitution, above the law, that is something we cannot accept, nor can we reconcile with it. Perhaps REM is one of the bodies that will be able to influence it, but the state must also have other legal, judicial, judicial mechanisms not to allow that kind of discrimination, or segregation, where in such a way and with such an explanation it will be said that, behold, you are not because there is a group of intellectuals who consider it that way. On the other hand, one of the problems of RTS is that they simply act as they wish on that television. The issue of politicians and other public figures on this television is not too much about politics as about the personal tastes and affection of editors and leaders of certain people and animosities towards others. So, anyway, REM will also have work to do in this renewed version. I hope he'll fulfill his intended assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68136	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68137	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. They're interesting suggestions. Now, let me tell you in advance that the public knows, some of these people would certainly vote, and for some, to be honest, I'd rather cut off my hand than vote for them. So, depending on who's proposed, that's how I'm going to plead. Here is a very important crucial crucial issue – who in this country is interested in REM, and why is our opposition, or our competition, so potent in this REM story, which, frankly, is completely irrelevant to citizens? From the moment it was formed, so-called. The republican broadcasting agency, or the RRA famous, who was supposed to be independent, we had an incredible situation, and that was that no one was bothered by how the RRA acted. We can all be witnesses that at that time some media functioned exclusively in a way that Dragan Gilas was in a good mood to allow certain media outlets to survive by getting a commercial, which only had to go through his firm. No one was allowed to write anything about it at the time. Today we have an incredible request, just by Mr. Gilas, i.e. His closest associates, and here we had Mr. Zelenović, above all, who requested, believe it or not, I am now quoting, that on the basis of a political agreement, we should select new members of REM, or all of these nine, in addition to the law, and whatever you want, we should change, and then, on the basis of a political agreement, even though it is known who the proposals for REM are, that we should choose, obviously, some party people on the basis of a political agreement. So we would come to a paradoxical situation, to tell His Holiness Patriarch Irine or Sinodoo of the Serbian Orthodox Church -- you must choose this and that bishop to be a member of REM, or there will be no other way to choose REM. Either we would probably go into the company of artists, film workers, etc., and say - you have to do this, or no other way, Zelenovic doesn't, he's looking for only such people. What's the point of the whole story? The point of the whole REM claim story was to actually enable the illegal business of certain televisions, and this illegal business takes place by having one television broadcast in a foreign country, and here it should re-emission the program. However, it does not broadcast a program in that foreign country, and here it shows us how it reportedly re-emissions the programme. In order to legalise this banditism and to legalise what that television is doing, and the ownership structure of that television is very disputable, and many say that, above all, the individual stakes of Mr. Gilas himself in that television, even though I'm building, he sold his "Darrekt Media", although we don't know who he sold it to, since the Dutch government is investigating, we have a variety of eight destinations where the key ownership structure of his company was, we have a share of Mr. School and we have a situation where this television here re-emissions a political programme without our television. And, you know, that TV can lie with shame, make up whatever it wants and not have any sanctions. And why is that? Because it's not subject to our laws. You can't sue that TV. Try to tell a false lie on that television to sue them, they'll say - we don't comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia and we can simply do whatever we want. It's the same with television broadcasts of individual football matches. We have to tell the citizens -- a programme of national importance, and that's where we talk about games, say, teams, there's no right for anyone to broadcast to television that has a national frequency. No one has the right to do that. And here it's possible for one television that's not even registered here. The question is whether citizens of Luxembourg or citizens of Slovenia, or where they are reportedly broadcasting, are very interested in Serbia's representation. And the question is, how do they do it and why did they do it? That's why they needed REM. Because REM's been staring at both eyes all this time at this crime that's being committed, and they wanted to come further and get to the end of REM, wouldn't they have moved on with that senseless robbery and causing damage to the other emitters here, because why? All the TVs here in this country pay taxes, pay advertising taxes, pay broadcasting fees, produce programs, and this TV doesn't do that, and it's a big advantage over all the other broadcasters. And it's pure thieving. They wanted, because their capital in that whole story, that thieving is legalizing. Not to mention the cable network itself that normally owns that television, which is an additional scandal, and the money of our citizens who pay cable subscription actually fund the program of these TVs, fund, of course, everything that that television does. It's a kind of scandal. REM has been muttering on both eyes and they just want to take over the REM until the end, so that they may get all nine REM members to move on with the crime. I also directly refer to Mr. Sollac and Mr. Gilas, who are the most direct culprits for all of this. I must point out that as far as the media itself is concerned, here I am as the MP of the ruling majority appeal to all the media in this country, especially to the media with the national frequency, and I will keep saying that they call on the opposition as much as possible, that they even limit us from the SNS to attend, or to be guests on these televisions, unless the opposition is looking for a duel, then we are obliged to go to a duel. So I demand it from our editors, I speak to our editors, or editors of these media, our televisions, in fact, and these are all televisions that have a national frequency, and I demand that they do something like that, because it's desirable for our country. I want the more opposition to host, because I think it's our advantage, because every time a gentleman from the Alliance for Serbia goes on TV, we're up 5%. I appeal that the more they are present in our media. Look at how they work. Today, we had a letter from a leader, if it can be called the Alliance for Serbia, where he asks all media owners to commit in writing that they will call on the opposition. Look out, he wants to edit the media. You've never been able to hear that from anyone from the SNS. Why would anyone commit any media owner to what they're going to do? The editorial policy of every media is independent. But they show us how they would function if they were power. They'd be ordering the media. They'd tell the press what they had to do. And it's really something that's outrageous. That's what Bosko Obradovic did today. Look, they called most of these media outlets not media. You call the TV "Pink" that it's not a medium, kick their journalists out of the press conference, throw out the press "Alo", throw out the press "Republic", or "Serbian Telegraph", "Republic" is their portal, throw them out and say, "You're not the media, then bring your supporters to beat up "Pink" journalists in front of that TV. You say "Serbian Telegraph" journalist, I apologize for the expression, that she's a whore, and then you expect the media to report you objectively. I'm sorry, if I were the owner of those media, if someone were to treat my journalists like that or my house, I'd be campaigning against them every day. To teach them the sense that you can't do it like that, because it's not normal behavior. You know, we, too, when the N-1 television comes, we shut up, we suffer, we swallow, but we answer, we never drive anyone away, nor do we want any evil to happen to any journalist of that television. And they're here to announce how they're gonna cut those journalists' hair, how they're gonna beat them up. They come in front of the media houses, they throw these TVs, they charm, they don't talk about RTS, which is a public service service, where they even went in with the saws, and then they tell you -- look how they're unobstructingly reporting. Well, of course they'll report you inexplicably when you treat them that way. That's what you're looking for, and you're not fifty to sixty in that protest, that every time you report from that protest. Why? Do you know how many events a day are much more important to this country and much more important to all citizens than those fifty, sixty who walk on the streets of Belgrade every Saturday and who rose this city? Why would someone, if you didn't have anything new in that protest, why would they report from that protest in the first place? It's a major news postulate, so someone's looking for something new for you. I don't know why it's so important that now they always have to be reported from their protest, but here, please, if that's even a problem, I ask all televisions to report from that protest every time they have it because I think it's very important for the citizens to know what their views are. In any case, what Mr. Vukic is doing, and sometimes I resent him, he's an overly man of tolerance and I can say, too broadly towards the opposition, I would honestly never allow this kind of thing, because I don't think a minority can be quite aggressive enough to rape and harass most of us here and harass us all here, but for the sake of peace in the country I understand that a solution should be found here. It is certainly a good thing to choose until the end of REM. I'm not in favour of choosing these people who are highlighted here so that maybe they could be chosen. For some of them, I certainly won't vote, there's no way, but for some names, I see they're really good people and honest people, some I even know, I'll certainly give them a vote. Anyway, in voting day, I'll think twice about it, and I'm ordering Serbian citizens. There's one of our people's sayings, I don't want to be vulgar, but I'll say it, you know, out of shit you don't make. So are these. I can get them REMs to give, all the TVs in the world, they can't beat us. Why? Because at the time of Mr. Vukic's term, factories are being built, roads are being made, people are being hired, and this country is still economically moving forward. In their time our social product was down, the factories were closed, people were out of a job. That's the key difference. You can't make pie out of shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68138	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68139	It's a strange order for the Lord. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if I hadn't suggested a candidate, I would have already left the National Assembly. So the parliamentary group's proposal was Dragisa Kovacevic. The board didn't pass, he probably had too many qualifications. I vote for Judith Popovic, I'd rather cut off my hand. Before, for sure. I have to tell you, to remember one thing, you can ask to be made, but I don't want to eat it. You don't eat, for sure. Second, don't defend the fortress with your army, right? He doesn't defend himself with another man's army, and he has to defend himself. If we go the other way, so the fortress doesn't defend itself with its army, then we won't get far. There's no Trojan horse here, there's more Trojan horses in our ranks. Sometimes I thought they were ordinary, even though they're ordinary, they're from Troy. As for these other REM members, the candidate for REM members, I don't know them, Judith. What Sergei Trifunovic has promised to work on our graves, she will gladly do far more, so be sure. I won't vote for someone else's army, no way, no matter how much it costs. He says a saying – they give in smarter. Let me tell you something, we can't give in to how tight those fools are. They will create a media landscape, and they are already making it, in which they have free media and independent N1 media, which is owned by the "SBB". I almost can't believe we let what, I guess nowhere in Europe, there's no cable operator have their own channels that are against the laws of one and two, and they say that since they own it, they have the right to do it. That's not true, article 100. The e-media law is quite different. ReM's back on. You have the Secretary-General of REM, here are the answers I received on the cross-border channels that serve, not only to destroy Serbia's leadership, but to destroy the state of Serbia. These channels are also used to launder money from the “SBB” subscription. These channels are registered in Luxembourg, they don't broadcast the program, and they're supposedly re-emitting it here. In fact, they don't pay taxes there, because they don't broadcast the program, they don't pay taxes here, because they claim to be from Luxembourg. Here's the REM response. There are Secretary General Milan Todorovic and Mrs Rajka Galin. I don't know why they weren't arrested. It's not clear to me, on all the calls, because they're maliciously interpreting the law and saying that what's against is legal. It's the Executive Director and the Secretary-General. It's not all about the REM Council. But I'm afraid, from the beginning, what I've been saying, the conflict with the opposition, part of the opposition, was not a conflict of political nature, it was a conflict with Solakov and Gilas's business, and that conflict is going on. I understand which side Mrs. Judith will take, not only on the media, but also on the political side. A media landscape is being created where their televisions are reportedly free to have the right to set up a programme against Serbia's state and its vital national and state interests. They will have that freedom, and with the help of REM they will try to challenge the freedom of those who are for the state of Serbia and for the leadership of the Serbian state. So they're going to seek freedom for themselves, to freely edit their own program in their home, but they're going to ask that those other people who don't think like them don't have that freedom. You can't claim your freedom to be free of others and ask that others have no right to freedom. Freedom must be equal for all, but freedom has limits set by the Constitution and the laws. The law on cross-border television, the Convention that has been confirmed, and the Law on Electronic Media, say that re-emissioning is at the same time taking over a programme that is being broadcast somewhere. They put in commercials, hijack the media market, and thus endanger domestic media. The domestic media are not paid by white broadcasting banks, but they pay these for re-emission, several euros per user, and there are 900.00 users in Serbia. That's how they rob and threaten media freedom. Small media will disappear because they've stolen their commercials, their advertising market, etc., don't pay taxes. They're all supposed to be working from Luxembourg. There is no re-emission and what Solak and Gilas want with the help of a physical labour force boycotting the National Assembly and, reportedly, the elections are to perpetuate their business and create a media landscape and manage the state of Serbia through REM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68140	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68141	Thank you very much. I thought for the third time you'd call Miladin Chevarlic the most important MP here, give him a third chance, I guess, to discuss REM. He won't discuss it and we'll move on, like a lot of people won't. It's a big surprise to me that for years we've been talking about the role of REM and the importance of REM, we have objections to their work, numerous, whether we're MPs of the majority, how much... Or we're MPs who are in opposition. We all have some objections to the media image in Serbia, less about REM's work. My remark, as the first among the equals on behalf of all of you, I think very little attention is being paid in information programs, a little attention is being paid to our essential work. We've got direct television transmissions, so what? We pay for it, it is agreed that we have direct television transmissions and that does not mean being informed about the work of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. For every second, the move of something important that has been done for the citizens of Serbia must be brought down by hand with different, mostly television houses, we must admit that people are most informed by changing channels at home and then they need to cause their attention. As far as the Serbian Parliament is concerned, we're only interested when there's an incident here, when someone is cursing someone, when MPs are fighting, they're making warnings, and so essentially to ask the press what we have in the day-to-day work, one session, let's be gentle, 97% would have passed the exam, 3% would have passed. They're only interested in what you did that day, something bad to someone else's colleague, or how you dressed up, or what's on your head, and not in your head, and whether you slept in a three-star hotel or someone made you change it, some kind of nonsense, trivial thing that doesn't make the essence of our work. I have a lot more grudges than those who are on the streets and act like they're not represented enough. They will be much more represented only first to prove their political relevance. Political relevance is proven in the elections, as much as the citizens of Serbia realize what you are politically offering them on that market and that is your strength and so much you are invited or not invited to some shows. It's the essence of political communication with the media. Now that someone from the street wants to be interesting, much more interesting, more attractive and more represented than us parliamentary parties, that's, I mean, their discretionary right, but on the other hand, and their private problem. So much noise is rising in this country because of Gilas, who did not go to the elections, will not go now, and there is one single explanation why Dragan Djilas, who is ruling the media, will not go to the elections, because since he is the perjanica of his policy, Marinika Tepic, can only expect to get one political knockout, not from opponents, but from Serbian citizens. What we have seen from the political programme, as they are called, the Alliance for Serbia, or change, the Alliance for Serbia, which is all sorts of things, because the party Dragan Gilasa is not called the Alliance for Serbia. What's his game name? I can't even remember them. It's amazing what political transfers are, and how it's a fake-mimicry and public representation, you can't remember the name of a party, the Party of Freedom and Justice. I thought it was Mursi's party, not Gilas's, but good. It's fine when you steal the name of a party in the world. But apparently he cannot be found, not only politically, but he cannot find the name of the party, but he has found fantastic Vice President Marinik Tepic, who is obviously working against Serbian citizens, but is also working against Dragan Dilas, and should be concerned. What is my appeal, I do not have such a way of communication as my esteemed colleague Djukanovic, to ask the editors, but somehow it would be good, because of Parliament and for the upcoming elections, that Marinika Tepic gets as much space as possible and that the more political statements we have had yesterday as we have had the opportunity to hear and see, unfortunately, here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry. I respect all the MPs here, because someone voted for them. I don't respect them by name or by name, but by the citizens of Serbia who are behind all of you. But let me tell you, I don't respect Marinika Tepic. After what she said here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, I don't want to be politically correct, I won't lie and I won't make up here in front of you to respect Parliament of Marinika Tepic more when I don't respect her, because yesterday, no, no, I really don't have any respect and let these Gilas media crucify me, I don't care, it doesn't touch me at all. After 30 years of politics, Gilas can do whatever he wants in his media, and let them call me for this, and, well, let them sort of fill out tonight's program, if they don't have anything better. We've kind of gone over the point, where we're changing three REM members now, or we're filling in empty spaces. The first demands of the Gilas family, Đilas, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Marinika Tepic and yesterday I said - and of course Jay, since we don't know who else belongs there, was like, yes, Borko Stefanovic, a Novosadjani who is a committee member in the Belgrade City Assembly. He learned the most fascinatingly the name of a street and now represents the interests of the citizens of Belgrade, it doesn't matter. It's not a subject. It was just that they were starting to boycott the work of our Parliament. It all started because our business procedure was threatened by my way of leading and the relationship of MPs to most of them. It all started with that, they were so affected that they left the duchy assembly and all the local parliaments, and the pain was still being swept away. It is still incredibly difficult for them to get over it, although after the European Commission's report we really are, it is not easy, but only someone who loves this country and who can admit that he was wrong in something, can accept his mistakes and try to correct those procedures. And we've made a significant improvement and we've done it. Even the SRS admitted it, and Djordje Vukadinovic had the strength to confess to me several times, although he always said but. There's one thing that spoils a girl's happiness, and then she always says but, never mind, we've achieved something. Instead of going back here to parliament and having a dialogue in this house where it is a place for dialogue, they still stayed on the street and continued to invent some reasons why they boycott the system, as they say, why they won't go to elections, so why not this, so why won't it. And what I resent, I resent all of us, we pay a lot of attention to them. Indeed, we have focused all our political capacities on a handful of Members of Parliament and some MPs who want to simply be at the centre of attention, to do some tasks that someone, I don't know who does, to harm the Republic of Serbia as much as they can, and in fact they're joking with all of us and they're kidding with all of us Serbian citizens who would possibly vote for them because they're not satisfied with SNS policy, we've offended them, they think we're wrong, that they're right, that they're right, that they're right, Marika Tepic, Djilas, Bosko Obradovic. I don't just know how someone can put them together in a political corps and vote for them? They're messing with them. They will not go to the elections, because it is an extremely small number of Serbian citizens and they know that they would not cross the censorship, not even in madness will they cross the censorship. After this policy we heard yesterday the finals of relations with the Republic of Serbia, those lies and inventions that anyone in Serbia buys some money from the recognition of Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence and that in fact it is very difficult for Djilasu and Marinika Tepic that 17 states have recognised this self-proclaimed independence. It's clear to me that we're only doing this for ourselves, not for them, because they didn't have any serious intention of ever showing up in those elections. In 2012, under the conditions of Dragan Dilas and his team around him, Tomislav Nikolic, became president of the state. She won the SNS under the same conditions. Let me explain to you what the media scene looked like at the time. I wasn't a member of the SNS. Well, you kicked me out of the party. So I wasn't a member of any party. I saw it as a Serbian citizen who should decide who to vote for. And I'm buying a newspaper in which, at the front page, at the time of Gilas, the king of everything in the state regarding the media scene of Serbia, the sons of Tomislav Nikolic drags naked some people around Pančev about cars. I was in total shock. First, I know Tomislav Nikolic, I know his sons. No one ever confirmed it afterwards. This is what the media and electoral conditions looked like in 2012. They just forgot something. You can fake news that every day you place in all your media, and it was all Gilas's, not to joke, it was all Gilas's. Thomas beat them. Tomislav Nikolic beat them and SNS, period. It is so because Serbian citizens have decided it. They held all the election committees. They weren't transparent lists. The media was under their control, but the people weren't under their control. You never know what they'll do and who the people will round up there when they go undercover. Quietly, they calmly brought down the regime, brought down not politics, drove Boris Tadic, whose policy was to sleep, wake up next to Severina Vukkovic. They brought down the president who sat next to Berlusconi and suffered from him messing with him and saying: "Here I am sitting next to Richard Geer and he is demeaning Serbia and him." I remember everything and the people won. Now they claim that nothing was wrong. Thanks for that. It is not easy to participate in dialogue with someone who does not want dialogue, but because I love my country we want fair elections, we want competition to appear in these elections, we have entered into dialogue here in parliament, it is a great victory for us, we have returned part of the opposition to parliament and we have come to these conclusions that something needs to change. We changed the laws, we adopted and established a Supervisory Board that never existed in this country. They passed that law. Gilas passed the law, Boris Tadic, that team, the DS, and they never implemented it. We brought this Supervisory Board and we got to REM. Formula three plus two. Djordje Vukadinovic attended the talks. So three vacant spaces plus two because it's not the same procedure. On behalf of the ruling majority, I have made a statement that we will be elected by the New Year's Eve members of REM. Those five, three plus two. Three of us are having a discussion right now, and we're about to pick two. I suppose the European Parliamentarians, too, are calling me to protest, care about the rule of law as much as we do, and they won't make us cut off the heads of REM members, but leave us to find a way to choose two more, in accordance with the law, to end it. We have three suggestions. I don't know if the promoter explained it. The mandated representatives are MPs. So you have to be a parliamentary group. I also have to explain to Bosca Obradovic. He can't suggest anyone, he doesn't have a group. I have to explain to Gilas, he didn't participate in the election, so he can't suggest from the street that we choose, that we who sit in parliament choose an envoy. That's what Marinika could explain to him, if she could explain something, except to invent and muddle the country she lives in. The third is national minorities, right? National Minority Tips and, thirdly, the Association of Film and Drama Artists. That's not true. Someone here said we were doing something from the hills of the valley. I see from the candidates that these are more or less the same candidates who have been in the process since I was chairman of that committee. We can get angry, not get angry when we don't get past some candidate, so not everyone can pass. Most of them will decide who they vote for. We're a democratic party, although I don't quite understand it, I'm a little old-fashioned, which means that some MP from the party that I belong to says I won't vote for it. It's okay. It exists in Britain, a party whip. That's not exactly what it looks like in democratic states. It doesn't look like it in democratic states, then some of the majority say -- it didn't go through mine, I'm not going to vote for this right now. Great. It's a criticism to us. It's not a criticism to you from the opposition. It's a criticism to us, that's not how it works, that's not how he behaves. So you can make an opinion, but when the majority wins, whether in a party or anywhere, that decision will be respected. That's what I learned when I joined a party in the first place, and that decision has to be respected, it has to be voted the way it's decided in the parliamentary clubs. That's my answer to those who keep someone thinking so far away that they won't vote for anything right now. That's out of the question, and we'll talk about it somewhere else. I say, thank the parties who made their proposals, we'll decide who we'll support. It can't always be everyone from the ruling majority, it's not normal, we didn't agree, and the cards will be mixed and REM, happily ever after, let them do their part within the law, not within what Gilas expects them to do, that they listen now to Dragan Gilas. Whoever is chosen will be under the glory of the public and will be under our glory. I don't know who in the opposition talked about the current composition of REM. We won't force anyone to resign, do this or that. That's not the role of SNS MP. I also didn't like it when one REM member came here for a public hearing organised by parliament, where we talked about the role of national broadcasters, programmes, television, to tell us in the presence of MPs – leave us all alone together. That doesn't make sense. I haven't had a chance to meet her, to see her, but no one in parliament can say, not a minister, not anyone we've chosen, REM, not anyone, bearer of any function, not these various agencies, independent, independent, this, that, leave us alone. Let them leave us alone for a while. This is my message to all those who forget who has been chosen by the people, who voted for them and who has allowed them to perform these functions. So let them leave us alone a little bit, let them do their job, so we'd have a little less trouble fixing their work or not working. Since I've spoken for an extremely long time, I say, we'll approach this, I'll vote the way it decides at the SNS Parliament Club. I can have an opinion one way or another, I can say it, but I'm not a little bigger, not a little smaller politician if I vote the way my MP club decides, and I'm gonna respect it, and I'm saying it because of those who think that bigger politicians are bigger Democrats if they say something here in front of the cameras. I'm saying, those are all good suggestions. Zoran Simjanovic, a composer, whom I admired for his film art and music from the younger days. I'm going to vote for him with both hands, even though I don't know which political option he belongs to, and I don't care, because with REM, we all have dots in our tracks together. I'm saying, let Dragan Gilas write letters, let him try to influence the media. He writes letters like Tito once, but he doesn't have that power, he doesn't have a game. There's just a little street. His strength, his painting and opportunity are Bosko Obradović and Marinika Tepic. If I were a member or an DS fan, I wouldn't vote for them. If my hands were spinning and my nails were sticking nails in my hands, I wouldn't vote for Bosko Obradovic who entered the history of politics and this parliament by entering the cabinet with the president of parliament and trying to physically endanger me, push me, hit me. Marinika Tepic is just one tiny particle in the history of the Republic of Serbia that will soon be forgotten, because I want her to persist in the boycott of the elections and that as soon as possible Serbia has forgotten her and that she no longer uses this parliament as a quasi MP and that she holds press conferences in the hall here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the name of neither do I know who else because she is king, queen of flyers, flyers of the planet, and not this Parliament and Serbia, and that she does not speak anymore, will not have the opportunity, by her own decision, because she will like boycotting the elections and that I do not know what to do, to speak against the Republic of Serbia. She did it yesterday, and only she knows whose interests she represented yesterday when she brought a bunch of lies here, and I guess she was a representative of the political party, Bedget Pacolli, here, on account of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68142	Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am still not voting for Judith Popovic. I voted in 2012 for Tomislav Nikolic, voted and urged others to vote for change. The first reason, Judita Popovic did not vote for change. Judita Popovic prevented change. Today, the promoters of Judita Popovic did not even come to defend the proposal. They didn't even come to defend that proposal. Do you see them anywhere in the National Assembly session? No LSV MPs, no LDP MPs, no MPs of the Party of Democratic Action. Did they stop for their candidate when they didn't come to this session today? I'm the president of a small party. I'm a member of a small Parliament club. That little constituency club had a suggestion. That proposal was Dragisa Kovacevic. I don't know who's gonna vote for who because he's got six candidates. I only pleaded that I would not vote for Judith Popovic because it prevented change. One more thing, the second most important reason, to compare Dragisa Kovacevic in a media sense, is to watch out for an independent regulatory body, and Judita Popovic, compare those two proposals, I, as someone who proposed Dragisa Kovacevic, together with four MPs, have to end up being behind my proposal because I still think that it is far more quality than the proposal I know, so I know the lady and so I argue that this proposal is far more quality and that I will not vote for those who have prevented change, which was Judita Popovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68144	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68145	Thank you. These polyphonic discourses heard today about this debate are indeed saying that different types of dialogue can go towards one common goal, that is, towards the goal of happening, to end what was one of the formal reasons for those who felt they should not go to elections. On the other hand, you have heard that MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the selection of REM members. However, we have, like everyone else, opposition and position, a grudge over the work of REM so far, as well as a grudge about not being professional every time and not doing his job to the end. Of course, the most drastic example is this example of RTS who put himself above the law, above the Constitution, and decided that the opposite of the law and the Constitution defames one people, one national community, his language and his culture. It is something that we as Bosniaks will never allow, we will never be part of such a concept because we believe that the Constitution and the laws have been passed just to protect the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to protect the rights of members of the national communities and minorities that we all hold back anyway. On the other hand, REM in the previous period, and especially in the election processes, did not react exactly the way it should react. We've heard a lot about his failures when it comes to national media. However, when it comes to the district, regional and local media under his authority, we have indeed been able to address REM many times for a number of brutal campaigns of media conducted on local media, on regional media, on the media, against political party representatives who were not part of local authorities, and every time because certain political parties had influence in this REM, we get a negative response in terms of the responsibility of those who abused the law, who were encouraged by such REM's stance insisted that simply all those who are not the same-minded of their political bosses are most brutally attacked, that they hit on the honor, on the family, on the dignity of every political opponent and that in this way they lose the minimum of professionality. Back then, we expected REM as an independent body to react, at least warn, to carry out the processes, to sanction those who abuse the media position and the media profession. However, he had never responded adequately, and it was something that continued and continued for a very long time. That is why we now hope that those who are proposed, who will be elected, will be much more responsible than their predecessors and that this body will indeed take care that the political discourse of the campaign is not reduced to that level that we have had the opportunity to see in the previous period, to feel on our own skins and to testify as we do to all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We give REM a chance, give them a chance to change for the better in this media sector, and we want to believe that this is one of the shifts in respect of compliance with those rules that are guaranteed and which are designed to ensure that policies and political programmes are represented to that extent in media where they are proportionate and deserve their political power and political strength. That is why in the voting day we will support these changes and we will support those candidates we make sure they have the highest competence and credibility to lay down these principled conditions that we have set. to be independent, to be impartial and to treat both national media and those media that have local, regional and district frequencies equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68146	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68147	I thank the chairman. The modern Serbian party has its candidate who, based on his brilliant biography and his presentation, has passed this final round where he will have the opportunity to be elected by parliament. Our proposal is a longtime journalist and editor Nenad Zoric. What was our guide when we chose a man who would work responsibly and independently this job is primarily his biography and status that enjoys among his fellow journalists. Today was the meeting of the Committee on Culture, where the candidates presented themselves to members and interested guests, and I can say that I was really pleased and proud that all the journalists who followed that session had come to congratulate him and supported him, and I really couldn't hear a word about that man until now. Based on the conversations we've had, he's convinced us that this job will work with honor and awareness. My colleagues, I invite you to choose your candidate in the voting day based on their working biographies and on what they have behind them and on what they represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68148	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. He's not present. ) The word has a People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska. (Not present. ) The word has the People's MP Tatjana Macura. (Not present. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to supplement the candidates for REM members. Someone today said that the Serbian Parliament reportedly launched this initiative two years ago, but you were driven into a deadlock a few months ago when the European commissioners who lined you up and who told you that you had to finish this as you know and know it, because without it they won't tell you in full that they're giving you legitimacy after the next election, because this is one of the conditions for the pro-Western opposition, these traitors from the former DOS, to the polls at all. Someone said here today, or threw it away, so we didn't, I guess they're thinking about SNS, their candidate. No, you weren't supposed to have your candidate. It wasn't any political decision of yours, it's a decision by Kukan, Frankenstein, as they are already called, that you may not have your candidate, but that your candidate and the one you will vote for in the voting day be one of this other echelon, from another track, the pro-Western opposition, so that you will, apparently, settle their appetites and make your way west. We are now coming to how you have narrowed down the list of candidates, first because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the members of the SRS, because of our voters, because, I believe, a large number of citizens who will show us confidence in the future elections. Our candidate was absolutely the best, with all the references and recommendations for this function. It is a man who is known to the general public above all for cultural and educational purposes, but also for all those citizens of Serbia who from Dragomir Antonic, the most famous Serbian ethnologist, were able to learn a lot about Serbian culture, about Serbian tradition for decades. And not only that, Dragomir Antonic, proposed by the SRS, is a man of truly highest integrity when it comes to the media. He was, in addition to being the director of the Ethnographic Museum of Serbia, one of the beginners of the Petnik one expedition, then young scientists in the field of ethnographic research. He was also the author of very important films that are promoted primarily by Orthodoxism and our culture, such as the movie about the life of monks in Hilandara, participated in many educated, educational projects for our youth, for all generations that have been able to learn much from him for decades. And instead of such a candidate, you, on the proposal of the Committee president, or Vucic and your coalition, or one who wonders, because you have to lay down emissaries from the European Union's accounts, have proposed two candidates on the Committee's proposal, which is Judita Popovic, who is LDP candidate Cedomir Jovanovic, SDA Sulejman Ugljanin and these Cank Autonomist parties, and now you have officially, here, through this proposal, a coalition of Vucica with Chad and Canka. You can't hide it anymore. You are absolutely not here as individuals, you know who is the bearer of your policy and then tell the citizens - Aleksandar Vukic, Cedomir Jovanovic and Nenad Canak and Sulejman Ugljanin are in the official coalition. It wasn't enough that you and Canka in the coalition in Novi Sad, that you and Sulejman Ugljanin, who wants Serbia and the Serbian people the worst, in the Priboj coalition, in Novi Varoša, in Tutina, in Novi Pazar, have already proposed that the candidates Judith Popovic who had only a briefer biography here, which she added, from a statement, or signature to accept the candidacy, be on this post. And you have a proposal for this SMS party, Tatjana Macura, Tanja, as you now call her out of grace, which has done the most immoral thing. First, those who are the first promoters came thanks to Vukic in the Assembly. You know very well that neither Canak nor Chad nor Sulja Ugljanin had enough votes to be a parliamentary party. Vukic ordered most of the RIK members to know and know how to vote more, to win 5% of the vote, to get enough votes for them to be a parliamentary party, in the Republic Statistics Bureau, as well as for Boška and Sanda, who are now probably your big opponents. And this one, Tatjana Macura, was selected on the list of Sasa Radulovic and the DJB movement. He received that number of votes that were enough to cross the census, however, it did the most immoral thing to be done. She stole a mandate with another group of corrupt MPs, made some SMS party, and now you're beating her, and how long until yesterday, I'm not calling you Radulovic's starlet, Radulovic's singer, to name you now. She is now a respected Tanja for you and you have accepted from this Tanja proposal, Tanja, you can beat her as much as you can, and you have recommended that certain Zoric be that candidate. The question arises whether you have such a degree of hypocrisis or something else, according to the legend of another French philosopher about a donkey, and do not take it personally, but, behold, to apply it to your policy, which stands between two haystacks, between two fields, and on one side and on the other, he eventually ate it because it remained hungry. So you, between the policies of the East and the West, have left it in the amananet Tomislav Nikolic, with your abnormal in Serbia politics, listen to these Europeans, humiliate the National Assembly, and therefore the MPs of the people, and these individuals of yours, neither know who these are, nor what members of the REM Council should do, which is their role, and the right to tell you, those who will be elected, or obviously Judita Popovic, have no idea what they should do there. So between what is dignity, which is morality, which is authority, which is a really broad integrity like Antonic had, you have defined yourself, no, what a rotten compromise, for something that is the worst possible way to humiliate yourself. But that's your business. You, with that platform and the coalition you've made with Chanka, Chad, Ugljanin, are going to the polls. We advise Serbian citizens that such candidates, such as Dragomir Antonic, whom you did not want to accept, will have people of trust in the future radical government, people with great experience, honest people who will always fight for the state and for the national interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68150	The word is proposed by Mr Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my very first address, as a reporter, I tried to draw the attention of the MPs to a clean procedure and to say how accurate the procedure is and how respected it is. But before I complete my presentation, I'd like to say something about what we're listening to right now, and it's about what SNS policy is, how it's a policy that someone's imposing on us, which someone dictates and produces just some fear of losing, I guess, the government and the desire to stay here as long as possible. SNS policy is a state of Serbia that reveals exactly and prevents political adventurers and mediocrity. It is a policy that provides a hand and opens democratic processes even where democracy is unattainable for individuals. It is the axiom of the national and state strategies of Alexander Vukic. When you realize that, then you will be able to understand what it means to be strong, to be politically powerful, but not ossion and not rough. Dinosaurs are extinct because of excess muscle and little brain, if it were the other way around, it would probably last a day today. What is important, we have no fear of the next elections, and when you talk about REM, listening to a few of you, I feel like the government of the Republic of Serbia is being elected, and in fact we only decide on two representatives, i.e. on one REM member, who has a total of nine. Therefore, we have no fear of either being apart from ourselves or being absolutely without us, deciding in processes called decision-making on a media strategy on Serbia's media face. We are not afraid because we are going to an election campaign where the winner is known, this is an election campaign for coalition partners and for the future opposition. Otherwise, I think there is no dilemma and there are no conditions except to cancel the election and we do not participate in them and the president of our party does not participate, that one of them wins. Whatever conditions are offered to us, we can accept them without fear and there is no dilemma. As for the very procedure that is very important, and for which I was responsible with the members of the Committee on Culture at the moment, I will also tell you that, Mrs Vacic Mihajlović spoke precisely and precisely why we withdrew from the procedure of the previous candidate. It was talked lightly here about the promised speed. You know, it is very rude to say about an institution, such as parliament, and as is the President of Parliament in all democratic states, the President of Parliament is an exceptional person, although the President of Parliament has made a promise, I guess it is for parliament and for those in parliament to do so. We made an effort to fulfill it, that there are several more reasons why the procedure, which was, of course, started in 2017, had to be withdrawn. First, I will tell you that we had one of the important reasons, which is the choice by respecting national minorities and national councils, we received proposals in 2017 from national councils and national minorities who were later re-elected and would be completely, you will agree unfairly, to choose candidates for those who lost their elections and who no longer exist in these councils, which is why we gave the opportunity to give new advice to national minorities to make their new proposals. As for parliamentary groups, which also have the right, we have challenged the previous candidacy, i.e. They withdrew the process and launched a new process for a very important reason, which is why individual parliamentary groups withdrew their own candidates first, making us change our own lists, and then some of the parliamentary groups that sent the candidates no longer exist. Today we have mentioned many times, of course it refers to these MPs who are not here, so I don't know who I'm referring to right now, but, let's say, Marinik Tepic, who from the Social Democrats League, as I recall, was an independent MP, so she sat there for a while in a group around Radulovic, and later moved to Zivkovic, now I don't know where. I really don't know if she's a national MP or a folk song they're carrying from knee to knee. It's already become unfathomable for me and it's not the only one in it, there's one number of her colleagues and colleagues working alike. Therefore, we need to understand that these elections for REM are important because we want to really have an independent regulatory body. Those who came to the board today, who were on the board and heard these candidates from the ranks of positions and opposition, could only conclude that they were candidates who met absolute conditions and that they all agreed, not participation and occasional participation and only criticism and criticism, so it is not the purpose of democracy, and I don't think that it leads us to better solutions, and we all need better solutions. Culture is the source of freedom and thought and measure of dignity and existence of every human being. If I want to keep the human form, please, we have to cultivate that culture of dialogue, dignity, and we have to have responsibility for the spoken word, you can't say that something is too slow, so suddenly it's very fast, so it's a promise of speed, and all of it in order to criticize someone for something just for one reason, because it's doing something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68152	Thank you, colleague Krlic. Vice-President Arsic told me that Natasa Jovanovic has the right to reply, as I have only just sat down. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68153	Mr. Arsic was right. As for dignity and whether it is given great importance to elect members of the REM Council, what the National Assembly always decides is important. But you have made since coming to power, since we were in this term, since 2016, above all to the Rules of Procedure that you did not want to change, which Konstantinovic of the DS wrote to you, the way you treat the largest opposition SRS and this proposal for Mr Antonic, simply as a rag from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, when it suits you to give the role of the highest legislative body, then you remember that it should be dignified, that it should all be measured, etc. What you didn't say, Mr. Krlic, because if you look at the stenograms of all your speeches, if you don't remember, here I was following, you always refer to Serbian tradition, chivalry, national state interest, and it really sounds nice, because you didn't say anything wrong. You, then, as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, have now proposed a candidate from a group that is all that you promote as Serbian values, the opposite. So, Ceda, Canak, Suljo Ugljanin and their candidate, Judita Popovic, and this candidate Macura Tatjana and her clicks, all the worst think about Serbia and the Serbian people. They promote the lie that genocide took place in Srebrenica, they are under the Sorosa Directive and other NGOs agents in Serbia. You've forgotten all this now, and it's a great candidate for you, and then we come to the point that obviously only one member of your coalition has that dignity, that dignity that he openly told you that he can't vote for that kind of thing. You go ahead, press the bell this button, I explain now, there are so many MPs, I don't want to offend anyone from your MP group, they have no idea about that candidate, not one, not another. And if we who follow both the media and the political scene, we know for a little while, but I'm sorry, that this kind of candidate is impartial, don't expect it in your sleep, and how dependent they are on their mentors on the outside, and obviously now from Vukic and from all of you who took them with you into the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68154	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Mr. Krlic, do you want a replica? You're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68155	Proposers, ladies and gentlemen, are MP groups, not me and not the board. Proposers for this one place for which a REM representative will be elected. And if someone can object to me as far as procedures and ways are concerned, they are members of the committee who are representatives of our parliamentary group because of perhaps too much democracy and too much freedom, if too much democracy and too much freedom can be at all. I was not in favour of strictly sticking to regulations, which conflicts with democratic principles, but I allowed other parliamentary groups, and when they are late and do not have complete paperwork, to participate in these elections, to be equal to others, just to show the width and show good will that we want to get as high-quality candidates as possible and to get as high-quality REM as possible. Otherwise, you had to notice that the Serbian Progressive Party did not have its candidate in this REM election, precisely for that reason to show how strong there is in one party at a time when it knows that the force is properly distributed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68156	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68157	That's the biggest problem, Mr. Krlic, since you haven't asked yourself, you're the ruling party with so much rating. All right, though, Alexander Vukic, not individually, he's going to make triage here now, so all of you who bother him, I don't mean you, maybe leave you, to make that cleanup, when it's been, these days, now, how it's going to get on his nose, I don't know. You're safe, Mr. Marinkovic, because your Rasim is going into political past, and you have a bright political future ahead of you. But then it's really the biggest problem. You are now telling the citizens of Serbia that you who have such a character, who you know, who have people who are in the media sphere and how professional and have media experience... And yes, it was also in that procedure that you're talking about, the condition was that it had a rich media experience. The candidate you're going to vote for has no media experience, but that's not the problem, but the problem is that it comes from the political group with which you appointed the coalition, so Vukic-Cada-Chanak-Sulja and you will vote for that candidate. Then you're saying you respected it all to be so. Well, if you had respected, all the advances, from the very beginning, the elemental postulate of parliamentary democracy, you would understand, and that in letters and numbers, the Serbian Radical Party has become the largest opposition party in the elections of 24 April 2016, and that we should also get seats on committees and candidates to have that in mind. No, you've trampled it all, and then it wasn't even expected that you'd respect our strength, our arguments, and above all the brilliance of a candidate like this at the time of your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68158	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68159	It was a great Ottoman Empire, a great Austro-Hungarian Empire, and now all the heroes have denied anyone. As for the other conditions and what you were talking about, I can truly believe that your candidate was exceptional, but I think all the candidates in their biographies and what they said today are really good candidates. You can really have something against certain candidates and have your own opinions about them, but what I have to give you once more is you're asking us to set up a party-based independent body. Just look at that sentence. We will have the SNS as the strongest party to set up our party independent regulatory body. Well, that's what this is about. That's what this is about when we talk about a strong game. She respects the law, and that's the basic principle we're ruling on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68160	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68161	You obviously, Mr. Krlitch, didn't get it right, and now I'm gonna have to do it again. So you're proposing someone, and that doesn't mean it's some party man. And you were some journalist on one of the TVs, so you became an advancer. Right? Why do you now slow down someone who deals with a journalist's profession, an expert on the media, if he's not a functioner like you in your SNS, to be a candidate for some party? You're setting up a party person right now. You say it doesn't have to be a party, and you're setting up a party person. The wife was Vice President of the People’s Assembly of Cheda’s Party. The Cheda-Chanak-Suljo parliamentary group has run for office, and then you get to have a party candidate. We cannot ignore the most important thing, the person you will choose is in favour of a policy that is contrary to Serbia's interests. And as such a person is recommended to you, someone who advocates and spreads lies and promotes. It is the basis of their policy -- that Kosovo is independent, that genocide took place in Srebrenica. You're proposing to be a member of REM and you're going to choose exactly that person.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68162	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has shown today in parliament and every day in parliament that it is ready for dialogue at all times, and that it is ready for dialogue and the election process, i.e. to improve electoral conditions at inter-party meetings that have been organised. At the Faculty of Political Sciences, negotiations were first held, and we really delegated people of senior SNS officials, members of the presidency, members of the main board, and later the dialogue took place in the National Assembly. They have vast knowledge and experience in this area. We have advocated that the dialogue be returned to parliament, where it belongs. They represent the SNS at these negotiations and discuss proposals that will advance the electoral process in Serbia. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic is now head of a working group formed by the government, which is dealing with just improving electoral conditions. We already had some draft laws on the agenda here in the Assembly that included amendments and additions to these laws, and that the proposals for these amendments were agreed on in these interparty dialogues. A few days ago on the agenda, we had a proposal to form a supervisory board to oversee all relevant institutions and at all all participants in the election process that awaits us. I also reminded myself then that such a supervisory board was formed for the first time in 1997 under the old law and that it was last formed in 2000. So, those who criticise our every step in our efforts to improve electoral conditions had the opportunity to form such a supervisory board both in 2003 and in 2007 and in 2008 and in 2012, but did not. They are the same ones who are today the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, which are putting the SNS on account. But if we go back, we'll see that they didn't do anything they asked of us. Thus, the National Assembly has fulfilled its obligations in those dialogues in an interparty way. Today, here we are talking about selecting REM members on a proposal from the competent Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly. This actually surrounds the story of meeting all the recommendations made by ODIR regarding the election process. This strengthened not only our credibility when it comes to elections, but also contributes to strengthening our international position, because we know that both the Council of Europe and the European Commission are relying on the ODIR reports. However, what should be said is that one part of the opposition does not want to participate in these talks, or in these inter-party dialogues. It should be said that they've passed some of those laws they don't want to talk about. The question arises as to how it is possible that in their time these laws were good and that these laws are now not good and that suddenly these laws cannot provide quality elections in Serbia. And today, they are, of course, boycotting this session of the Assembly that discusses the selection of REM members they were looking for. The first thing they criticized was about REM. What else to say other than that it is one unserious, irresponsible behavior, disrespect, above all, of Serbian citizens who are blinded by their demands, and are not allowed to go to the polls. It is clear that these demands are directed exclusively at seeking alibis for their non-election. We had various representatives of NGOs and the Line, we had representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, one of five million and Zoran Zivkovic and many others who have now said when they saw that we were able to conduct dialogue, that we were able to discuss and improve electoral conditions although, I repeat, we did not bring those laws to which they now have objections. So they now said that these changes were only cosmetical, regardless of what these changes were exactly they were looking for in interparty dialogues. There's something else. There is a request from the opposition, or part of the opposition in Serbia, for the elections to be postponed, which shows they consciously want to violate the electoral laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that clearly regulate and call elections and the entire electoral process in an unequivocal manner. In this sense, the SNS active in the inter-party dialogue is ready to discuss many issues concerning the electoral process, but is not ready for anything and not at all, and especially not at the cost of breaking the law. Under these conditions that they had brought, which they had determined, the SNS took part in the elections and won convincingly. In 2012, when we were not represented in the media at all, but we presented the programme to the citizens of SNS, because it presented a programme that it has, unlike the Alliance for Serbia, which has no absolute political programme. In 2014 and 2016, the SNS won. Aleksandar Vucic won the 2017 presidential elections in 2017. They were the choice for the city of Belgrade. Then we come to talk about the laws they have adopted, which they are now criticising, and by which all these elections were held, and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was adopted in 2009, the Law on Local Elections, which was adopted in 2011 and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, which was adopted in 2003, whose amendments were made in 2014. So, according to all these laws, the SNS took part in the elections and won because the SNS had its own programme and today has a programme that can be presented to citizens and because SNS are not crucial to changing and supplementing certain laws, agreements, negotiations, inter-party dialogues, etc. We are not afraid at any time to check the election will of the citizens because the results are behind us. Absolutely everything is on our side and work and results and support of the people. We also have a new programme for the future of Serbia that we will present, absolutely everything is on our side. Of course, SNS MPs here in parliament represent the strongest and largest political party that has a plan for Serbia's development. We can't wait to present that plan, but we're also looking forward to putting that plan into effect. We will do so with the help of legitimate elections and with the support of citizens who will vote for the SNS. That's why we're in favour of this whole process being transparent, because at no time does the SNS have anything to hide. I must say that neither they hide, when I say they mean the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia and the supporters of the Alliance for Serbia, neither do they hide that they are unfortunately against Serbia. Being against SNS would make sense if we had a program, if we had ideas, if we had a policy that they could present to the people, but it seems to me that they run the dirtiest campaign against Alexander Vukic and the SNS ever led. But what's sad about this whole story is that they run a dirty campaign against Serbia as well. So we have Marinika Tepic, who says we give the money from the sale of weapons to the countries to withdraw Kosovo's recognitions. Still lies, affairs, only to put into second plan the results of Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian government and the SNS. I urge the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia and all supporters of the Alliance for Serbia to take part in the elections and that, as long as they exist, at least once show a certain amount of seriousness but I also want to tell them that it is doubtless going to lose to the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68164	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the unreserved desire of the SRS is to participate in Serbia's political processes. She's still very present. We live in hope and belief that finally those most responsible for political developments in Serbia will realize that all this is about preparations for the elections, in fact, it is a great shame at the expense of democracy and the development of democracy in Serbia. When we spoke to you, and this was the president of the parliamentary group that the missing political party called the Liberal Alliance of Montenegro for the reason that their ideology and programme were taken over by Milo Djukanovic, then we clearly pointed out that there was a danger of the disappearance of Nenad Canka and Cedomir Jovanovic's parties, because you from the SNS took over their ideology and their programme. Someone took it seriously, but apparently there were fewer of them, it is obvious that you have snuck up on the very fact that you have a large number of MPs and that Europe through the European Parliament has been praising you more and more. What a smart man says would worry, but what to do, we can't keep warning you. You obviously care more that you are at Canka and Cedi's service, to be praised by the European Parliament, to be placed on pedestal from the EU, in the Balkans, that you are uncut leaders, rather than that we Serbian radicals want to show you how relative it is. What happened? It happened, however, that you decided to find a compromise solution according to the model imposed on you by the representatives of the European Parliament but from the former presence of Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko and Natasa Kandic. That is not fundamentally different from what they have recommended for you and according to which recommendations you have actually functioned. You have sat down, and you have literally given in to all the demands of the foreign European Parliament or read from that Gilas you want to impose as an alternative to the West, if by any chance you fail at the elections, then there will be American people once again who will be called Gilas, but as you bid them here and quote them. That's the whole list of names you name. Well, what do you think Serbia remains so politically illiterate that it has no experience for citizens of Serbia. They have, they know that you do it on purpose, you do it by order, you do it with anger, always if it is possible as much as possible to name Dragan Gilas and everyone else to create or contribute to the creation of some division or polarisation of the political scene, so if you lose, then these spare players will not be imposed by America. Forget about it. Serbia is sufficient and politically written and has enough bitter experiences, you can't do it anymore. Everyone realized that you were literally now all gathered around the Serbian Progressive Party, and those who are in the G17, and those who are in the Democratic Party, and those who have been in any forums, are now all in the SNS and you are waiting, thanks again to the possible support of Catherine Ashton or someone who replaced her, to sit down and rule Serbia. You won't, gentlemen. You see for yourself how far you go, how extreme you go, how far you don't see the limit. You gave in to the pressure of a representative of the European Parliament. It's the servants who came and said -- you can't hold elections when you think, in March, you'll be in May. The question is, what are you going to do when you get a lot higher officials than you do? The question is whether the elections at the level of the Republic will be at all. That's the question. You're breast-feeding now, and now you're acting like you're saying something to them. I'd love to see how cocky you'd be, how proud you'd be to tell them. As your president would say, he even tells them -- come on, shut up, quiet down there. It's just for domestic use and nothing else. What's the fact, it's that now you're going one step higher, even doing something you're not asking of you. Now you're putting in people who suggest Canak and Chad. Chuck, you put their candidates and you adopt. But what's interesting? From your preconceivedness, your condescending, something new was born. The marriage that you, politically, had with the representatives of the European Parliament, gave birth to a new child, it's called SMS. Who's gonna pay for the alimony, we'll see about that. What you did, you'll pay for it. You're playing with the will of the citizens here. In previous elections, citizens made it clear who they trusted. When it comes to the opposition, the main opposition party is the Serbian Radical Party, as the majority of citizens have decided so when it comes to the status of the opposition. And you're ignoring it. You think, playing with DJs, texting, Telenor and all sorts of phone numbers, that you're going to do something about it. You won't do anything. You know, quick turn it around. The few of them they are now, it's relative. You weren't at first something numerically strong. What you stole from us in office, that's how you started. If the Constitution had been respected, they would have returned their mandates and seen what fate it would have been. As Tomislav Nikolic of the EU, by Catherine Ashton, can be supported, so you will be in the position now, as you wish to present it, Gilas and Democrats. The Serbian Radical Party warns you - you can't do that. Don't do that. The fact that you are advocating Europe is at the expense of both Serbia and Serbia's citizens. The fact that you think you're going to outsmart in these peers with SRS Serbia and us Serbian radicals is not a pleasure. Don't forget, we're telling you again, and to be held in May, it's far from May. Now you're already campaigning for the election, and you think all this stuff you've been doing for eight years, you're going to have to paint it fine in these two or three months, paint it, and make it look nice to the citizens. First of all, I'm telling you again, and I'm warning you -- Alexander Vukic will not be your president in all the municipalities. Alexander Vukic will not be your Prime Minister. You won't be Alexander Vucic's minister. That's where you'll have to find capable people, people who aren't compromised. And here, he himself announces that there will be rigorous measures when it comes to human policy, so find yourself there, you who look so mildly at all of this and who are eager to praise you not only the EU, but Chad and Canak and all those who are previously known as someone who works against Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68166	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Now the word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68167	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens who are monitoring this transmission, are wondering whether the opposition or part of the opposition is in what is the SNS force? The SNS power is in Serbia, in the people. It doesn't have to stand behind us, Chad, Canak, this one, or that one, behind SNS and Alexander Vukic, is what's most important -- the whole people. Most Serbian citizens are behind us, what will never stand behind those who attack SNS daily, who talk nonsense, bring up lies, nonsense and try to get pure populistism and demagogy, nationalist or Western or whatever, to get some votes. That's just impossible. It's been 90 years. It's been 2000 years. The people no longer believe in Santa Claus, or in packages, or trees, believe in concrete results. You can't deceive people and tell them stories. What's on the agenda today, we're talking about REM, REM members, so it's the SNS force in that, so we told the opposition -- here's all the minutes in the media, here's all the information shows, here's your diaries, here's all the newspapers, all the headlines, whatever you get, you won't get SNS in the election. You're free of all that because you don't have results, you have no program, you have no idea. You can't go out with people with front pages against Alexander Vukic, you can't go out with people by saying, "Ua Alexander Vukic!" You're a big fairy tale now, you said. And what did you offer Serbian citizens? Did you give people one time, did you give them a mile, did you give them a hospital, a home of health? No government has done a home of health in Serbia before this, the clinical centre has done none. Now the SNS is doing the first clinical centre in Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, all over Serbia, that people have to be treated, equipped with clinical centres, health homes. Here's a cornerstone yesterday for people in Borca who have been waiting for a home of health for 50 years. Well, a mouthful of patriotism. We know who settled during the wars, and who had to avoid it, so he came to Borch to live in that part of Palilu. Why didn't anyone give them a home of health? Why didn't anyone think of those people? It's the easiest thing to do in the Assembly to come to get the journal up, to travel I don't know from where, was that famous MP from that group, who took hundreds of thousands for the journals, that was the most important thing, and home health nowhere for people, no roads. We are now sorry that our candidate is not proposed for REM membership. I'm so sorry, too bad. Too bad not all of your candidates can get together, so everyone can be REM members, everyone can get editorial positions in the media, everyone, the more space in the media to have it better, because then SNS and Vucica's support wouldn't be 55%, 60%, it would be 100%. It is best for the opposition in Serbia not to appear at all. It is the only chance to enter parliament again, because as soon as people hear what they offer or turn off TV and say – I will not go to the elections at all, or do not vote for them, they vote for those who offer concrete results. Leave the citizens of Serbia alone no more, people won't listen to nonsense. People want when they go out to the street to see the facades done, to see the town, to see tourists, to see new squares, people want to see that they live better. It's going to be a new year, they want to see bigger salaries, bigger pensions, they want to be able to get their grandkids to cheer up with a gift for the new year, not to cheer them up with the front pages of the affair where the sniper is pointing at the president of the Republic. Well, then they say no, we didn't mean it. Then what did you want? Well, we'd all be glad to see the opposition if Alexander Wolfie wasn't around. But, little tomorrow, with Alexander Vukic, the whole of Serbia is because man does, because he doesn't distract the public in Serbia with empty stories but says – just attack, just spit, write whatever you want, invent a factory and affairs every day. The only factory the opposition, this left or right, in Serbia, has made, is an affair factory. They're successful here, they're perfect. The best in Europe for the fabrication of affairs is the Serbian opposition. No one knows so well that they are making up affairs and inventing them as opposition in Serbia, especially this part that does not come, as many as Markovic, 350, 400 days are not in parliament, but there are them in the conference room, in the big hall there are. There's every Tuesday, Wednesday, when they're holding their conferences, waving some papers, making up some affairs, and they say about REM, it sucks, so all the improvements in election conditions, it sucks, we don't need anything. You guys decide what you want. They say we're not in the media. Well, here, stay in the media all day. Well, that sucks. We're not in the papers. Well, be in all the newspapers. Well, that sucks. Then they make up some newspaper, which doesn't know who owns it, who owns it, or where the press is, or where this television is being printed, which is not known whether it's from Luxembourg, New Belgrade, Zemun, China, where it's being broadcast from. They have no idea. They come to the Committee of Culture today, some when they were, and one of them said, "You make decisions under the pressure of the West." No, it's an auto projection. They make decisions under the pressure of Bastac, Gilas, Obradovic and other scum. The improvement of electoral conditions is called the end of democracy in Serbia. Great, it was just the election conditions both in 2000 and 2012, the banned videos, everything not prohibited during the political campaigns. Do you know why some parties disappear in Serbia and why they are shutting down? There's what's called political evolution. If you do not adapt to the conditions of life and conditions on the political scene, you will disappear. So Serbia, too, had to adapt to the conditions in the world, the conditions of today's life, to see what reality is in Europe today, in the world, and to lead such a policy where Serbia will survive, not disappear. The easiest thing to do is sit in the congregation and laugh all day long, have a lot of fun. Sometimes the people say that to the court crazy. When they don't know what else, they're laughing people. Says one of the speakers - a smart man would be worried. Well, here, I'm not smart, I don't know how to take care of these people, but a smart man would worry if he were in a coalition with Bastac. It's really disturbing, for a man who re-evaluates his friends, his godmothers, who gets so angry when you don't bring him 6000 euros, other people, unearned, it was only one envelope. It took him that day to go to some distant land, and to return, and he got angry, so, first thing he got was a bag, and he got that nickname man in the end. Here, he's the saddest man in the Old Town municipality, because since January 1st, it's a ban on using plastic bags, and now Bastac and Gilas are having second thoughts, people are having a debate all day long, what they can think of, what new means to use in the fight against their godfathers, friends, against their coalition partners. You'll have to worry. I believe you might have come out of that coalition, but the fear of a bag is great. But don't be afraid, there's no bag of New Year's Eve. You can, if you're honest, I believe it is, to get out of that coalition, there won't be any bags. Serbia has its institutions, it has the police, it will protect you, it will protect you from the attempt by Mark Bastic to do something with those bags or whatever. So in Serbia, they say that the government was voted out of Serbia by the government in Brussels, London, Berlin, I don't know, in Washington, Beijing, Moscow, wherever. About the Serbian government, if you are not directed, here, to guide you, it is not a big deal that you do not know, you may have confused, it will be in time, in Serbia the government is elected in the elections in Serbia. Serbia has its own cities, its municipalities. These people come out to vote on Sundays, have the opportunity to choose power democratically, we have improved electoral conditions, and how you may once vote or what your projection is, what you would like, who to bring you to power, in Serbia the party on Serbian government will not decide. In Serbia, who will be the president of the Republic will decide Serbia's citizens. In Serbia, the government's composition will be decided by citizens. So the citizens will also decide on the composition of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and then as such you will not be in that same parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68168	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68169	As far as general evolution is concerned, fellow, if that's how you claim, many would never become frogs, they'd stay on the level of tadpoles, and you're right. As far as the 1990s go, you're a stranger in the fullest sense of the word. You must honor the president of the party as it was in the 1990s, because he was with us Serbian radicals of the 1990s in the same party, the same policy, and he all advocated that you honor the 1990s, so explain it to him. Since you have these manners, you who are visitors to always honor the '90s, you must once decide whether Alexander Vukic is president or not. If not, continue this tralala in the 1990s. Everything we've done in the 1990s and 2000s and now what we're doing, we're not ashamed. But what's fascinating, which you're absolutely right, when we read your candidate's biography, we really see that we were wrong to suggest such a candidate. Here, to let the public hear what kind of candidate you've proposed, on behalf of Chanka and Chad, you will support. It's Judita Popovic. She says – she worked in court as a judge for 10 years, in law for 25 years, was a national MP in two terms with Ceda Jovanovic, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for a total of five years, and she served as vice-president of the National Assembly. There's nothing else. This is a brilliant one biography. And really, with every right, you can stand behind a candidate like this. In fact, what we're convinced of, you're continuity. It is only one of a series of evidence that you are the continuation of what Chad, Canak, Democrats and G17 have started and that is why Europe values you so much. That's why when these parliamentarians come, they give you all the confessions. Now we understand, and Serbia is becoming increasingly clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68170	The right to replica has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68171	I couldn't even do politics in the '90s, but someone, unfortunately, kept living in the '90s, didn't get out of there. He didn't hear that Tito died, that today in 2019, that much has changed in Serbia and that in Serbia, much is different today. When we talk about candidates, I said again, the SNS force is that it doesn't have to propose its candidate, it doesn't have a parliamentary group to have names signed, that our candidate SNS is the one and the one that we would vote for. We said, "We'll give, here, the opposition wants to have a candidate." We will choose from these opposition candidates, we will vote, please, here you have REM members, be everyone in that REM, transparently, no one from the SNS will participate in these bodies, please. You don't like it now either. Well, I'm really sorry you don't like it. You can boycott the election with them. That's your thing. When you talk about continuity and discontinuity, SNS is a discontinuity with corruption, crime policy, thieving, banditism, robbery of Serbia, kidnappings and all the worst that you have personalised in Serbia and everything that is related to DS, Dragan Gilas, Bastac and others. They are a real example of all the worst, worst scum that currently exists in Serbia on the political scene. I am sorry to have to use that term in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in direct transmission. And you can honor me as a member of the former DS since 2004. I'm not ashamed because I didn't steal anything from anyone in my life, I don't owe anyone anything. I didn't put bags on anyone's head with anyone. I'm able to look everyone in the eye and say it's a shovel, because it is, to Mark Bastac, to say it's a hohstappler, because it is, because it doesn't know where he comes from after a few years of office in a 115-square apartment in Old Town. I'm sorry, I haven't bought it since 115, and my colleagues, we live mostly in parents' apartments, because we were lucky that at a happier time, when it was different, our parents could and had a chance to buy the apartment more easily. We're fighting today that our children can not live in our apartments, but that they can get their own apartment, that young marriage partners can live in their apartments, that they have something to live on, that our children don't have to live under the same roof with their mother-in-law and I don't know who, that they can support them, but that they have their own factory, that they have their jobs, that their jobs don't have to carry a bag to Mark Bastac and an envelope, that their jobs are factories, plants, that they have fields where they can work, who wants to work, that they have schools, that they have institutions that they can believe, and those who don't have results behind them, let them cover themselves with their ears better, in elections they might get one or two percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68172	Thank you. There's a Milorad Mircic on the line first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68173	First, the selfless gratitude that you've been up to date in information and announced with caution that Tito died. You can really see that you're current in politics and political life, and the other one we can trust if we don't trust you personally. You, when you snowed on your car from the roof, informed the public that someone had demoted your car. The police made an insight and found it wasn't anyone, but the snow fell off the roof, and you were on the front page. How can you not trust a man like that? Secondly, to completely unreservedly trust such people, he also says what you say about your former party colleagues. You say they're thieves, criminals, and you were from that saucer, what the people would say, they ate with them. As far as we're concerned, we don't tell you apart, you're all the same to us. Once yellow, it's always yellow. The fact that you have temporarily found refuge, let's make time, so let's see if we Serbian radicals are sometimes right, did we Serbian radicals do anything? We've been to the elections more than once. The citizens made different decisions. We haven't even been a parliamentary party for a while, and it's not a tragedy and it's not the end. We've continued to deal with politics, and that's the point, because we have our own ideology, we have our own program. Only one who has ideology and who has a program can remain on the political scene. That's what history tells us after all. It's a clear indication. One who has no ideology, one who does not have a clear programme, one who takes over from someone and who thinks he will keep the illusions of entering the EU and that it is his programme, that it is his ultimate goal, it has no great chance in Serbia. Don't forget that. Once again, let me truly thank you for this latest information that Tito died.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68174	Thank you. The right to replica has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68175	What am I supposed to do, try "Wiber" Johanna to send a telegram. I don't know if he'll take it. As far as my car is concerned, i.e. My wife's cars, which broke up at the end of January last year, the first one I should have seen into the results of that investigation. Unfortunately, the investigation is unlikely to end soon, since the car is located in a street with no cameras and is technically impossible to identify the perpetrator. I can doubt that those who say it didn't happen may be just like that behind it and that's what they're looking forward to. It's about character and difference between us. I would always condemn something to happen to property or personally to one of my fellow MPs, no matter what political option it belongs to, I would condemn it, even if it belongs to those across the street who don't come to the Assembly and receive the salary. I would condemn it, but unfortunately it's a matter of culture and home education, of what's being carried out from the house, and I can't make it right with my colleagues. It's been worn since we were little and it's a huge difference between us, an insurmountable difference. That's what they'll never be able to reconcile you and us. When you talk about honesty and who ate the bread, and I didn't want to eat bread with that Bastac, and that's why I went from there, so I told him in his face more than once that he was a hohstappler, and that he's got a long-standing prison waiting for him, if the prosecution starts in this country doing the job that he needs. That's why we ask Zagorki Dolovac every day. What else is to happen in Serbia, whose heads are to fall, which cars are to be smashed, who are to be threatened, how many other headlines against the President of the Republic should the prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac start working? How long does it take to work? How much interest does Gilas have to pay him back for his pick so he can start doing his job? Unfortunately, she'll probably never start working. When it comes to ideology and that political parties share in that which has no ideology, I end up with, it is true that those who have ideology, which have a program, survive and have over 50% support, as well as Aleksandar Vukic. Those who don't have a political programme, or ideology, don't sit in the Assembly today, raise their salary from ATMs regularly, those who get cold, so they won't go out on the street with him, sit there and have 2% support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68176	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68177	They will choose, colleague, to show who has and who has no trust and how much trust it is with the voters. Do you agree? Secondly, I have not, in four years of this term, heard a more convincing argument for the replacement of the police minister, but for what you have stated. When a single bank case like that can't solve the police, how can some who are much more complicated? You're accusing the incompetence of your police, or those of your political option, and they're handling the police. All we need is for you to add to the minister and father Brank, and then we know who's making up these affairs. Yet these affairs are created in circles and circles of the ruling coalition and there is no one on the side. What you said was that, after a year and more, it wasn't discovered who the perpetrator was because he doesn't have cameras, it clearly indicates that the police are incompetent and you're the most direct. We don't doubt that, because you've confirmed yourself several times. What relations between you, within the DS, political or some other nature, were, is more or less known to most of the public. After all, it is characteristic that after the creation of the SNS, you started throwing trees and stones at each other. We don't want to interfere. We only claim to you, Serbian radicals, we do not distinguish you, you were the same to us and you will remain. Why? Because you don't change ideology. Your ideology and your programme is to join the EU, and that's what Serbia knows. There's no difference in that ideology. Since 2000, you've been deluding Serbia in this direction – here, we're about to enter the EU, here's an open door, just this chapter. It's a whole ideology and a whole program where you're personally contributing, because you've had great, huge experiences since 2004, but you're not that political gromada, or so interesting a political phenomenon that we'd be working with you. You are a typical example of that policy being conducted in Serbia. It's something that's personal to you. Don't realize he deserves as much attention as I've given you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68178	Thank you. The word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68179	I think we should end this nonsense. Here's another little lesson. The prosecution is conducting an investigation in Serbia, not run by police. What do we do? Again, Zagorka Dolovac, probably a friend of your coalition partner Mark Bastac, Dragan Gilas. She's returning interest and principal, she hasn't returned it yet. When it comes to police work, don't go to the police, I wouldn't advise people, so you and Bastac and that bag sit in the coalition. It's not good. When there comes a change in the Old Town, in power, so when someone comes in to comb the Old Town municipality, what's done, who knows what's going to come up next to that bag. Who knows who was getting those bags? Who knows who made those envelopes? Who knows who filled those envelopes? Who were those people? I can't wait to see what's gonna happen and whose legs are gonna run faster out of Old Town and out those windows. It's all I can't wait for, and I don't want them to be friends with some of my colleagues from here. In Serbia, a lower crime rate, fewer murders, no serious criminal groups in Serbia, record drug confiscation, weapons. What's better for you today? Better police work than ever in Serbia, better than ever. Better because police today are allowed to knock on doors and a member of the SNS and a member of another opposition political option, anyway. Today in Serbia, police are not party police, but the police of Serbian citizens and, above all, thanks to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who are full of your mouth, and are full of the mouth of Minister Stefanovic to all those who have their hands deep in honey, so let's attack as many police and Minister Stefanovic as possible to forget what we once did and may never have discovered what we did with Bastic, what we did with Dilas, how they took the money. Very interesting events await us, I believe, in the months ahead of us, and it is certainly the citizens of Serbia who will evaluate in the elections and who has done the roads, far more than all together for 50 years back, who opened 300,000 jobs, who opened over 200 factories, who brought the salary to 500 euros, and one of them said when 500 comes, we will all vote for you, vote for us. The results as many as you want, and the minuses on the other side better not to remind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68180	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Comrade Mircic, are we going to close this? Thank you. Let's not talk anymore, really, about this Bastache, what the squirrel says, and nobody knows we've been talking about him for 20 minutes. I think you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68181	First of all, let's face it, we're not full of the mouth of the police minister, if nothing else because of the nickname, who's going to fill his mouth like that. A normal man wouldn't at least do that. We're just saying what's common knowledge, that he can't fight crime in Serbia, a successful man whose college diploma is suspicious. Whether we're right or not to check it out, there's no weight or problem with us Serbian radicals if we're wrong to say - the investigation has shown. What we have available from the documentation is that the man finished his exams, took some parks in London, and continued in the parking lot in front of Sava Center. And now watch the tragedy in general, my fellow dear, you don't have to listen to the soufflé, but look at the tragedy in Serbia since 2000. At the head of the police was Dusan Mihajlovic. Police are handing him a report in the honor machine instead of arresting him. After Dusan Mihajlovic comes Jocic, breaking in trades. Instead of being arrested, the police are handing him a report. Then comes the one who took part in the affair "Coffer". And now at the head of the police a man whose diploma is suspicious. Even if he's involved in politics, it would be too much, not that he's the one who's supposed to prevent cases like that. That's the point. We're not burdened with individuals, we're just asking Alexander Vukic, as the most responsible to initiate a government reconstruction. Because of all the affairs and what the public in Serbia knows, you know, but you pretend to be naive, distasteful, praise for these or those reasons your party colleagues who at least deserve any praise.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68182	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Of course, the replica. Here you go. The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68183	Mr Marinkovic, I will remind you of the Miroljub Ignatovic case and the proven falsification of the "Lomonos University" degree. Now what? What has been proven is precisely why and this is not negligible, it is not a small thing, it is not nonsense, it is said, it is why police are being attacked by the minister of police, it is why the president of the Republic is being attacked, that they are being discovered by the counterfeits of those people who are in the opposition, that they are not revealing what they were doing, how they boasted, how they falsified everything they could in Serbia, so they showed people a better life, and in Serbia they were getting worse, so they were showing people in Serbia roads, and roads nowhere, so the reconstruction of hospitals opened, and in fact they were turning one room and showing to the citizens, and everything else was ruined and ruined. That's why the SNS came. He doesn't know where he's coming from before Alexander Vukitch, what he needs to do sooner, and then of course you say, "I miss this, I miss that." We agree. What is missing is what, but it has been done more than for the previous half century, and that is why Aleksandar Vukic has the respect of Serbia's citizens above all, primarily for supporting Serbian citizens and because he is a reliable, predictable partner, a serious man. He's got support both east and west. That's why they talk to him with respect to each other. That is why orders are no longer given to Serbia, and I will not comment further on bags and other things. It's completely pointless at that level to talk. We can talk about the results. We have something to raise. We also admire the support of the citizens of Serbia, but because we have given them a better life, better living conditions. I will tell you that Serbia's citizens also hear what some of the media are saying, they say -- medical workers are leaving. Some nurses have begun to return to Serbia. Their salaries have been raised and salaries will be raised year by year. As our GDP grows, as our economy grows, so will growth and wages and pensions and make a better living, and therefore the progressor will be more and more in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68184	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic is not present. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68185	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'd like to make one comparison that might point to one trend right now in the next few months, which is that Alexander Vukic announced a large cleanup in the SNS front of this election where 30% of them are going to replace, which is why he's not satisfied with their work, and if we watch what happens to REM right now, what progressors are doing... The advancers instead of candidates of their parliamentary group from the five vessels are struggling to justify the election of Judita Popovic, a member of the LDP presidency, Cedomir Jovanovic, I fear that in the next election, Alexander Vukic will not replace you all with former LDP members or current LDP members or some of the coalition partners to leave without a coalition, and instead take LDP and the pre-election coalition with the SNS. That's probably the trend we recognize about this REM case. The discussions of the previous speaker have always been very inspiring, and he has repeatedly mentioned who the worst scum in Serbia is. To understand those who stole money from the state, of all citizens of Serbia, they are scum and deserve to go to jail, all of them to one in which foreigners they were. They're not the worst scum. The worst scum is those who speak for their people, the people to whom they belong that the people are genocide, that the Serb people have committed genocide in Srebrenica, that the people themselves are genocide, that the Republika Srpska is a genocide and that Kosovo is an independent state. It's the worst scum in Serbia. Representatives and such groups shall be selected as representatives of the REM Council. It's not the biography. We've seen that there's nothing in the biography, there's no excuse for any expertise or anything else. The only reason SNS chooses Judith Popovic is because it's ideological closeness. We have seen in the process that has taken place, the representatives of the European Parliament, the former MPs, and the current MPs have come, and they have tightened the reins. There will be no more doing what they want in the Assembly, acting autonomously, acting on their own. No, it's about adopting what we're looking for and after that at REM to choose who we want. It's Judita Popovic. Another candidate you will not choose, this Zoric, as it is possible that he wrote for the evil Miskovic newspaper just one time, the anti-Serbian newspaper "Time" was always an anti-Serbian newspaper. That man was their reporter. That means you agree with that now and then. I'm afraid there won't be room for you on the next list, Mr. Markovic, that there will be someone from the LDP instead of you, it may not be your fault, but what to do, more luck next time. He's got our colleagues who get used to it if there's no tsar from the party they're in, they just change the party. Whatever. I'd have to remind you of one more thing. This LDP is an open traitor's anti-Serbian party, you support them today, today you inaugurate this coalition, so you're declaring now, here, three, four months before the elections, you're no longer hiding it, you're going openly with it, you're choosing the former LDP MP in the form of REM, and not by the voices of what they've proposed, there's no Chanka, there's no Chad, no Sulejman Ugnjin here to vote for them, for her, but you're going to vote for her. You will vote for the former LDP MP to be part of REM. Why can it be except that you're alike or that it's your warrant. There's no other reason. I will remind you, one of the performances of those held by LDP representatives, was that of a famous celebration, a sedation, when Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of The Hague tribunal, was killed. They gathered together, they celebrated in the Republic Square, so they walked to Calemegdan and played balloons there. So, your party president, the current president of the Republic, gave a speech at the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic, and today you choose the woman who served when Milosevic was killed. The same goes for the SPS. Those who celebrated when their former party presidents killed them will vote for that woman. That says a lot about you. It says that you don't have any independence, that you bend as the wind blows, as the pressure from abroad goes, I say in general, please don't, therefore, as the pressure from abroad goes, as the dictatorship from the west goes, so do you. This LDP, it's you today, it's your mirror, your LDP, your coalition partner on Vračar Municipality, as well as Canak, your coalition partner in the town of Novi Sad, as well as Sulejman Ugljanin, your coalition partner in Priboj, Prepolje and Tutin. They're not going to explain that Judith Popovic today, but that's why she has you, and that's the same thing. So you're showing open today that you're no different from the former regime since 2000, too, so as they say in Brussels, that's how you do it. You are able to humiliate yourself and that, although some of you may not like it, you must vote for Judita Popovic, although you know she represents this traitor factor in Serbia, that anti-Serbian scum that you attack, you are with her today unfortunately on the same side. Could something be good for Serbia, which supports LDP? He can't. What's that saying, then, is what kind of message he's sending about you and your patriotism, which is why you're drilling. Won't ever make it to the Wolf again this, it couldn't be that, the Wolf is the first one, the Wolf is the first one. Here, Vucic was the first to introduce LDP into power, the LDP was not yet at the republican level in power from its founding to Alexander Vukic. It's the first time in history and I congratulate you on that. I congratulate you for choosing Judita Popovic only because she is a member of the LDP next to some other candidates who have been more qualified. So, that's what, and I have to say something else, your former party president, Tomislav Nikolic, and the founder, spoke very often – who you're with, that's who you are. Since we've talked about people's sayings here. Who you're with. So, with Cedo Jovanovic, with Nenad Canka, with Sulejman Ugljanin, with Judith Popovic, with all those traitors who have this open anti-Serbian policy, who hate the Serbian people, these are your partners, and who you are with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68186	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68187	Thank you, Chairman. At first, I want to ask you a question. Do you, the chairman, with whom this famous Cedomir Jovanovic, LDP leader, went to Zemun after October 5th to talk and beg him for recognition of election results? Do you happen to know the chairman, with whom? Here, I ask you, let it be a matter of thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68188	I'm not from the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68189	Okay. On the other hand, Chairman, I'd like to ask you to tell the previous speaker about whether I'm going to be in the next meeting or not, I don't know. I may be, I may not be, but I'm sure he won't be here in the next session. When it comes to the subject of the agenda, I would like to say that these are no concessions or the execution of any order, as some MPs have said, this is a fill-up, or a selection of missing members of the Council of Electronic Media Regulators, popularly REM. Therefore, the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly has established a list of candidates for members, delivered to the National Assembly and the National Assembly will elect members of the REM Council. As far as I'm concerned, the chairman, the improvement of election conditions, so how can I tell you, we just did it. We are doing this job very permanently and we are strongly in favour of improving electoral conditions and this process is under way and this session today is part of the process of improving electoral conditions in Serbia. This very session, once again, was not attended by those who boycott the work of the National Assembly, and their mouths are filled with certain objections about election conditions. So much for the seriousness of their grudges. So, first they whine on the voter's list, then we find that we have the most accurate polling list, the most transparent polling list in the recent, let me say, political history. Then they gave up on the subject, then they complained about the Law on funding political activities. A few days ago, we voted to amend and supplement several laws, among other things, the Law on the financing of political activities, and then they stopped talking about it. Then they asked us to form a supervisory board, whine why we didn't form a supervisory board, and for 20 years they hadn't formed it before. How many electoral cycles we have had so far without the board of directors, and this ruling majority is the first ruling majority in the last 20 years to form, or has already formed a supervisory board. We now elect members, missing members of the REM Council, but on the other hand we have some other requirements and some other objections to that part of the opposition controlled by Dragan Gilas. But these requirements refer to the formation of some kind of transitional government, some kind of pre-election government or whatever they've already called it. Why? To make Bosko a minister, Bosko Obradovic would be a minister or one of them a government official at any cost. Of course, we have that request, which is how to prevent Alexander Vukic from doing his job, how to prevent Alexander Vukic from acting as president of the Republic, or to participate in the campaign in any way. But those aren't real demands. It's in our interest to have the best possible election conditions. It is in our interest to have the most transparent electoral procedure possible, which we do, therefore, because we expect a convincing victory. We expect a bright victory and we don't want anything to darken that bright victory that's about to happen. We wish that even those who have excluded themselves from the election game, that even they will have no real objection to the electoral process and electoral conditions. There is one more thing I must say, the chairman, which is -- the Serbian Progressive Party was an opposition when election laws were passed, which are still in force today. These election laws were fine then, they were excellent when they were conducted by the opposition today and by the former government. As an opposition, we didn't complain, we didn't complain, we didn't go around complaining about election conditions, we couldn't wait for elections. We wanted elections, we tried to be early elections, there were reasons for that. We've been collecting signatures, petitions, a million signatures from the SNS in 2010. So, we wanted the election so badly, we didn't run away from the election. Then the election is scheduled. Then we ran for office, we went to those elections, we ran for the idea, we ran for the program, we ran for politics, and we beat the dosmania in those very elections. They can get to me by tomorrow, Chairman. Anyway, why am I saying this? Because there are no electoral conditions that will allow you to win the election, if you don't have a program, if you have no idea, if you don't have a policy. There are no REMs, no surveillance boards, no such institutions that will lead you to power if you don't have an idea and program policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68190	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68191	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I would like to tell you, Mr. Marinkovic, that in my life I wish Mr. Markovic the best in both business and party, and love, and any other plan. I'd like him to be a National MP in the next session. But if he is a member of parliament in the next meeting, his head of the parliamentary group will be Cedomir Jovanovic. That's the point. Is he ready to make peace with that may be a question for him, but we see that he is ready to wrangle, like all SNS MPs, the LDP proposal, the SDA Sandzak and LSV for REM membership. There are some in the coalition who are against it, they have said it openly today, and there are those who vote by order and who will vote for Judith Popovic. How is it possible that one party did not have a better candidate to propose, but must support the LDP proposal? It's your destiny, it's your future, LDP. That's what they make you from abroad, to be like LDP, to grow up with them. Otherwise, you wouldn't get a warrant, you wouldn't get a dictatorship if you had to vote for Judith Popovic. You'd have enough integrity and independence, if you didn't already want another candidate who was not wrong about the Serbian national interest, that you would suggest your candidate. And we already see that Judita Popovic doesn't have to have any experience. If you can get her, then you can get anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68192	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Right on the replica of Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68193	Thank you. And I want all the best colleagues in every sense, but what I have come to report for is how many SNS deputies will be in this parliament after the next elections will be decided by the citizens of Serbia, the people will decide. Who will be head of the SNS parliamentary group after the next elections will be decided by Aleksandar Vukic, as SNS president. However, unfortunately, the chairman, since I see where things are going, I don't know and I am worried that some other parliamentary groups will not be after the next election in this room. When I say, unfortunately, I really do. I want all the best strangers to the previous speaker. I really want this party to keep working, but I am expressing concern for the simple reason that public opinion research does not share your optimism that you just showed. The last public opinion polls give 3.1% to this parliamentary group, I don't know who's to blame. So, I can think about what's causing this Misa Vacic, the famous, who you're so afraid of, when someone mentions Misa Vacic, immediately cuts every hair on his hair. So it hurts them the most. So, does this Misa Vacic really take so many votes to that party, I don't know, nor am I particularly professional in that sense, but I am afraid that if they don't do something, and at the most recently possible time, it is very likely that after the next elections someone else will be sitting in this part of the National Assembly plenary hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68194	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on the line, Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68195	Listen, there's a lot of stuff in the research and the taraba. Otherwise, it is already known that it is not in the polls but in the elections. What did the research mean for those who supported you at five o'clock in the afternoon, and the polling stations haven't closed yet? Where were the roles of research in that direction? So research may be true, it may not be, but it certainly isn't a significant factor to know who's going to be in the election. That's the first thing. The second thing, we just didn't have half a percent, nothing in this world is going to make us make any arrangements with the LDP. So there is no force to force us to be together with Cedomir Jovanovic. We have seen that, although the research that you're talking about gives you a big rating, they predict that you will win a significant number of votes, they think of the Wolf, they don't think of your stranger, but it doesn't matter, you still take Chad. That means you like Chad and you need Chad as well as his party. So, a party of Serb traitors who say that the genocide in Srebrenica was committed by Serbs, that all Serbian people were genocide, that Republika Srpska was a genocide, Kosovo independent. What do you need him for if you already have such a strong rating? Because he has something that's stronger than the ratings, and that's the dictatorship of those who brought you to power. It is much older than the electoral will of Serbian citizens. We saw that on your case.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68196	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has Alexander Markovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68197	Thank you. Chairman, first of all, let's clear up this time difference once and for all. So, I ask you to inform your colleague that there is a time difference in the world, that in one country one time, in another country, that there is a difference in hours, so I don't think it would be a bad thing to say it to a colleague, just to know and to get rid of these dilemmas once and for all. When it comes to Ceda Jovanovic, I really don't know how this obsession with the character and the work of Cedomir Jovanovic. Cedomir Jovanovic, I must confess, is not current. Simply, he is not so present on the political scene, without the intention of defending Cedomir Jovanovic's character and work. I agree with nothing when it comes to this man's politics, but I see an obsession with a parliamentary group today with a character and part of Ceda Jovanovic. He's been advertised all day here in the Assembly, and it's just amazing to me, and I don't know what it's all about. So there may be some secret agreement between Ceda Jovanovic and this parliamentary group to advertise, to make each other important. He's extremely immaterial. So, today in Serbia are current, unfortunately, some other politicians. I'm sorry it's Marco Bastac. And when I say, unfortunately, and when I say current, it's topical in affairs. I cannot understand that you today have a problem in Serbia, Cedomir Jovanovic, which is a question of whether censorship can cross, and you have no problem with Marko Bastic. Not that it's not a problem, but you're in a coalition with him in real time. Today while we're having this debate, you're in a coalition with him in Old Town, so right now. I have to ask a question that I asked a few days ago and that's what else is it necessary for this Bastac to do to finally get out of you a shameful coalition? Well, that's what I have to say from the shameful coalition. With a man who has become known in Europe by the number of scandals, by the number of affairs and by the number of criminal acts. So, I don't want to prejudge any investigative actions, but he's at this point in rank, not the Sugljanin. I don't know why you're fascinated with him, too. I don't know what that fascinated you with. I can't understand your need to defend him at all costs and be with him in power after everything that's been discovered that he's been working.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68198	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Alexander Seselj, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to remind you that all the way to London and Lisbon in the West is the same time, so the same time zone. Central European time, right? Well, they congratulated from Brussels, not from Washington, but good. Never mind. Why am I dealing with Cedomir Jovanovic today? Because the SNS will vote for a member of the LDP presidency as a member of the REM council. There, just for that reason, otherwise I don't care. You say you have nothing in common with Cedomir Jovanovic. Well, that's not true. You have Judith Popovic in common. It's common to you. So you vote for the same proposal as Cedomir Jovanovic. What's the problem? What are you running from now? Who are you going to vote for in the voting day for, Mr. Markovic? Will you vote for Judith Popovic and if you vote, why? Is that your opinion or is that a warrant given to you by the senior authorities of your party? On the other hand, it will not be the first time that any combination you have with the LDP because you who come from the Belgrade municipality of Vračar are already there in the coalition on the territory of the Belgrade municipality of Vračar with LDP, so SNS and LDP and that committee from the DS list has defected and made a coalition with SNS on Vrakar. So you already have experience. You probably need to help your other fellow advances to somehow digest that new LDP coalition, because yet, you know as much as we are in power in the Old Town municipality, it's a local level, and you do what you do is an announcement for a republican level, since REM's advice is much more than local self-government, i.e. City hall. Please deal with this problem first, and then we can talk about some other things later.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68200	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68201	I thank the chairman. I'll try talking about the agenda first. In front of us today, the selection of the missing three REM members. Yeah, I could agree that maybe it's too late with this choice, but it's never too late to round up the number. The six REM members you've been doing so far have been doing their job the best they can, having a two-thirds majority that they needed to decide on. I'm not saying it was ideal, but I'm saying it worked. The missing three REM members have caused enormous attention in the Serbian public for many reasons, and even in the Serbian Parliament's very hall, the attention may be intensified. I'm sorry my colleagues left this space, and I wanted to share these best wishes, since I realized that this day is for each other we want everything best. I wanted to say something else that is not a wish but a finding, which is that I can certainly claim to be MPs in the next assembly of the Serbian Parliament. I wanted to say that it's true that we didn't have our candidate and we didn't propose our candidate to the Committee on Culture, not because we didn't have a candidate, but because, as a coalition partner, we realized that the right of the majority is creating a commitment to give opposition colleagues a chance to plead and give their candidates. Some of them took that chance, some of them didn't. It's a personal right. Then they began to respect our right to finally give way, because it was not good, and today we are first accused by the SPS and countless times mentioned by President Slobodan Milosevic, in different contexts. I want to say two very important things here. Slobodan Milosevic is the founder of the SPS, which has been on the political scene for 29 years. It is true that many have destroyed us, replaced us, tried to destroy us, even that famous October 5th attempt to completely destroy the idea of socialism. Unfortunately for them, the people of Serbia decided differently. The Socialist Party of Serbia has been continuing for 29 years. As the situation changed, who celebrated the day of Slobodan Milosevic's death, who had compassion for the Socialists and the common sense nation who knew it was a great loss, we could analytically talk about it today, but it had nothing to do with the REM candidate's proposal. As any of us will vote individually, assume, each has the right, no one can claim. In the end, what I have to say is that as a member of the Committee on Culture, I really had candidates in front of me who are worthy of each individual being a member of REM. Therefore, no biography found before the Committee can be challenged, even in that broader context. Here, there are the representatives of the Committee, and I also see that the president is in the O.R., and on that broad list that meant that we had before us, as a Committee, four candidates who proposed political parties, none of these people were worthy of the position they were proposing. It is simple that the Committee, by its majority, decided that Judita Popovic and Nenad Zoric would be found in the tide, when it comes to the candidate of the Committee on Culture. When it came to the other promoters, we did not have any major controversy here, but agreed with each other and proposed to the Committee as much as necessary, which is two candidates each. We've had a conversation with all the candidates and I'm sure that any three candidates of these six who have proposed the plenary will be elected in the voting day, REM will receive three high-quality members. That's very important, everything else we could talk about would be politics, and that's not what I want to do. It is quite clear to me that President Ivica Dacic, the SPS of yesterday or several days ago, suffers unfounded accusations, allegations that have been filed, accusations that are somewhere in the kitchen of us famous and already declared enemies in character and the work of Bedžet Pacolli, Ramush Haradinaj or whatever. Socialists and SPS presidents are accused of the most unfounded things. The largest national project, which is the withdrawal of recognitions so-called. Kosovo is only being Banalised to give some space to media or political profits. It would be crazy to defend ourselves from it and that the Socialists and President Dacic will never work, but what we will always do, that is, we will defend Serbia from all those who do not think well of it. Because of the fact that we will defend Serbia against all those who do not think well of it, I am sure that in the next meeting of the Serbian Parliament and how we will be MPs of the SPS, because the people whose fate we share have recognized it for 29 years and will certainly do so for the next 29 or 50 years. In that sense, the SPS parliamentary group will give its voice to one of the proposed candidates on this list and allow REM from now on to work in its full assembly, firmly believing that it will contribute greatly to all the shortcomings that we have all been criticising here and I think that opinions have been undivided on what is wrong with the work of the media, that one complete team of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media will succeed in channeling it and it will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68202	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. Now the word has Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68203	Thank you, Chairman. Today when we talk about the election of three members of the REM Council, I certainly cannot bypass the opposition and its views here. Simply, the opposition doesn't know what they want. The fact is that they have just asked for the selection of three missing members of the REM Council, and when the SNS responded that it is not a problem and went into the process selection of those three members, they have changed the request and are now seeking the replacement of all nine members, regardless of what the REM Council currently has six members. We will ignore the ignorance of one of Gilas' closest associates, Zelenovic, who has requested the replacement of all nine REM members and thus showed how competent and serious they are in their demands. That's what Serbian citizens should know when we speak on the subject of REM members' election. The same Zelenovic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia and President Together for Serbia, said that today in society if we do not have dialogue, we will have a conflict. However, the result of the dialogue can be satisfied with those participating in the dialogue, and they, headed by Gilas, chose the street and dialogue with motor saws, flags, doors. I'll remind them - the dialogue is conducted in institutions. A similar story has been served to us these days by Gilas' most cultural representative, science doctor Ana Stevanović, who was behind the speaker in 2017 in parliament, as MP Enough has been stated - ma, go and get it all. Fortunately, my home education doesn't allow me to say her curse to the end. I just need to remind the public that she came to the post of MPs because her mother works at the Anti-Corruption Agency and she had a protective attitude towards her former leader, Sasa Radulovic. The one who constantly accuses individual members of the government of being plagiarists, and herself, at the very least, is the owner of a suspected doctorate. The story comes from academic circles, and recently the content of a doctorate that is controversial was published in a daily list. We of the SNS believe that the principle of academic integrity is important and that it applies to everyone and so does to the followers of Gilas. And Anna Stevanovic's doctorate has plagiarism elements. Given that Belgrade University's rector has placed herself on one side, decisions are made by bringing a few dissatisfactions ahead of the Rectorate, in this case, there is a need to review them. We from the SNS will fully support our president, Alexander Vukic,'s proposal to digitise all PhDs and make them available for plagiarized analysis. With great enthusiasm, we expect Belgrade University rector to accept this proposal and thus point to whose side it is, whether on the side of Serbia or its traitors. This proposal by our President, Alexander Vukic, is also justified from the aspect of academic integrity. Today, we are proposing six candidates from which we will select three members of the REM Council, but I will not be surprised that the next day after the opposition's vote, the opposition is asking for the replacement of those same members. For future REM members, I want a lot of success in the work and too much tolerance on the osium statements, and all in the spirit of our sayings - the strangler is also grasping the straw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68204	Thank you, Mrs. Kostic. Now the word has Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68205	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the new REM composition we are talking about today, which we will declare in the voting day, shows that this government and the National Assembly are ready to do everything in its power to vote and what follows us in the spring simply goes in the best order and most transparent possible way. It's very simple -- everything anyone thinks can change and everything that makes sense and what's in accordance with the law, the Serbian Progressive Party and most in the National Assembly will. It is not the regulatory body there or some state, it is the regulatory body of the state of Serbia, and accordingly it will have the support of this assembly majority, and those who do not respond to the fact that at this point they do not have the support of citizens, that they do not have their own party, that they do not have their own policy, that is their problem, and probably after days to vote and decide on these three members of the regulatory body, they will probably seek some new changes. But what is important, we should absolutely stress that this change will also not help Gilas and his Alliance for Serbia, but it is not the Alliance for Serbia, rather we will call the Alliance for Serbia in an attempt, because in order for someone to call themselves an alliance for Serbia, he must do something in Serbia's interest, and they are doing exactly the opposite. The latest developments in Djilasov, I would first call him a circus, from Marinika Tepic via Bosko Obradovic, to Jeremic and unfortunate Zelenovic, the only convicted mayor in Serbia, who, as if, will try harder to make a statement, to keep a better position on the scale in that Djilas circus and race for who is going to make a more stupid statement, who is going to draw on this Serbia that is finally on the right path, who is going to lower Serbia, that is their wish, because it is precisely in an attempt to bring down Alexander Vukic, they are working against Serbia, who are rooting for the enemies of Serbia. It won't bring them votes, it won't bring them any support and they can all set, according to our people, that the depths on their heads won't change anything. It will not change their attempts to enter this National Assembly by violent means, to enter the RTS with motor saws and phantoms on their heads, to break into the Lucane police station, to attack the presidency, to free media, or all those media who do not think the same as they call enemy media and the free media, to just as much as Mayor Zelenovic, I will repeat once again, the only convicted mayor in Serbia, the media who dares to ask why they do not support Zelenovic or why Zelenovic steals five million euros from the 2015 budget and is convicted in the Greater Court, he calls these media killers. Are media assassins all those who don't think the same way as Djilas, like Zelenovic, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and this whole gang of thieves? That Gilas circus is going on. Simply, I would like to call from this booth Dragan Djilas, Marinik Tepic, Boško Obradovica, Vuk Jeremica, Zelenovica and the entire team, there are not many of them, they can stop, probably on a smaller bus, get on the highway "Milos large" and let them tell the citizens that this highway does not exist. Have them go to the clinical centres that Alexander Vukic built from 2012 to today and tell the citizens there are no such clinical centres. Let them tour the schools, let them tour the kindergartens, let them go to the railways that have been refurbished, or made new ones, let them go up to 300 kilometers of highway that has been made and let them say – respected citizens, what you see does not exist. Let them visit 200 factories that are open at the time of Alexander Vukic and let them tell those people that these factories do not exist, let them tell those people who are employed in these factories that they are not working there, let them tell people that they are not now receiving an average salary of 500 euros, and let Gilas circus do so, and let them explain to the citizens that what they see is not seen and that citizens do not believe in their own eyes, but that they believe them who have ruined, reversed and humiliated Serbia. The truth is only one thing, and as much as they try to make this truth go away, they won't be able to buy committees like they bought, that they won't be able to buy votes, and that won't change this REM, or any other attempt to turn the story in their direction. What I'm going to say for the end, and that's just a fact, a million times the repeated lie of Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Bosko, Zelenović, Jeremic, Trifunović, and not to forget someone, millions of times they can repeat those lies, but those lies will not become true, because the truth about who is doing in Serbia at this point, what he does in Serbia, the way he does, is the truth that Alexander Vucic gave Serbia back to the place Serbia deserves. Serbia is finally proud, we head up ahead, we move forward with Alexander Vukic, and these thieves in Gilas' circus can't change that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68206	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered on the floor, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ended up last night, in the final round of debates with Minister Vulin, saying there's no need to get too nervous and excited, because it's going to be re-routed somewhere around two or three hours last night. I was an optimist. By half past four, I was awake watching a video of the congregation, and I hadn't been there yet, so I probably arrived at about five or six. Something similar can probably be said about this right now, but still, some things should be said, regardless of whether or not it's echoed and what kind of thing it is, media or political. You may have noticed, you were the chairman, I missed a few direct reasons for the replica, I was mentioned, once in a normal, polite, once in a rude, rude context. I've mostly ignored it, and I'm not going to replicate it right now, just as a small contribution to the efficiency of the debate. I'm trying to talk about what the subject is, of course, with allowed excursions. So, the topic is to select new REM members, missing REM members. I explained my position in my first major part of the exhibition. So there's no dilemma about whether or not I'm both confused and conflicting, because I say first, says your colleague -- it was fast, so it's slow, so now it bothers him to be fast. The point is, yes, it is, it bothers me both when it doesn't go through normal. Three years, therefore, lasts practically, a little less than three years of REM operating in this more than just the brittle composition. My colleague Natasa rightly said that the initiative was launched in time, that the Committee on Culture launched the initiative, that it was launched in early 2017, but the fact was also that almost three years had passed and that for various reasons, not only our fault, but also the context of various circumstances, and the promoter, but obviously there was not too much energy or effort on this side of the assembly, this thing was not over. Now in three weeks, realistically in three weeks, we're finishing something that isn't in three years. Let's be honest and let's face it. It is clear why and under whose pressure it is done and the promise. I don't mind, but don't let the basics get out of the way. Political pressure is external pressure, plus desire, of course, authorities, presidents and those who make up the ruling majority, to show maximum goodwill to international representatives, i.e. representatives of the European Parliament. As far as the candidate list is concerned, I said, I explained, for this reason, I did not participate directly in the process, because I had a lot of painful experiences in the previous period with some previous candidates, when we and as the Committee on Culture, and then here, directly chose a weaker candidate, a less competent candidate. I said, basically, these are good candidates. I cited one example of a candidate who may also be good, and perhaps, since the climate seems to be being created that he will be chosen, maybe he will be great, or she, a great REM member, but the way that this application and this biography were formulated and submitted, and I first read it here, after me some other colleagues quoted it, is really a simple expanded sentence. You can't even see from that simple-expanded sentence, i.e. It is apparent that there is no direct connection with the area, with the topic, with what is the basic area of action of REM. Maybe she'll be great, maybe she was a great MP, maybe Mrs. Judita Popovic will show up much better. But when we choose a person, when we choose a name, it's more important to me, I think it should be more important to all of us, to citizens and MPs than to choose. I really must say, although they are not here in the O.R. right now, that two candidates who have not passed, let's say, have put their trust in me, both Mr. Kovacevic and Mr. Antonic. They seemed to me like people who could and who would have and had weight and could do, I think they'd do a good job of REM. They didn't make it. I'm thinking to the promoters all the worst... The, uh, the two of them. But we're choosing a person and it's very important, so just because I don't like it, maybe it doesn't mean that this person won't be or won't do his job well. You have defined yourself as most as another candidate, but then you have to make sure that at least that candidate has, because they have such a wide field, that at least in a decent biography, it is then arranged to show that it has something to do with what is REM's activity. Another candidate, when I see a name, is enough to see Mr. Simjanović's name, including Mr. Zupanz. I trust them. Maybe I'll be wrong. Maybe they won't be bad if they're chosen. Maybe they'll turn out wrong. But, I mean, we have to choose personalities from authority. It's the meaning of an independent regulatory body, that you have personalities who are willing to take the pressure of even the one who chose them or the one who suggested them. That's why it's more important to have a personality than authority and integrity, than to like or not to like the promoter or the one who voted him. Maybe it's utopia. I think it would be better for MPs, or for the Assembly, if MPs were to be elected by name and last name, not to be smuggled through the names of leaders and thus through the list. Perhaps some future amendments to electoral legislation will go that way. So, I'm ending it, it's good to finally fill in REM. It's not good that it seems under obvious pressure from the outside. There's been a change, a shift in RTS work, and I think, too, under pressure from the outside. Many of my fellow opposition colleagues resented me, almost on some show to get, I don't know what, a mouse in the head or a bug, because I once a colleague here from the bench, an ex, said RTS was better or less bad than he was. Yeah, I admit it. And President Maja Gojkovic mentioned me and called me. I am not ashamed and I do not hesitate to admit a positive shift in formal terms in the work of parliament since spring this year. Technically, things are better. Containably, there's still one and I can explain what's wrong. It is not right that any exposure of the opposition representative, the few representatives of the opposition, on any subject shall be welcomed to the knife of the self-in charge or the self-invited skaters, or those who are in charge of planting clips and hitting low blows. And they tolerate the chairman. But, formally, the method of appointment, there are no meaningless amendments, the separation of agendas, these are positive changes. So, I have no problem being a representative of the opposition, real, whatever, firm, whatever you want me to admit. I think my position or our position is only more convincing with citizens if we say there's something that's positive. Is someone going to take it as a bad and as a betrayal, a collaboration, that's his problem. So, for the MPs, and especially for the persons who need to sit on REM's advice, we need people who can say no and to oppose the will of mass, mass pressure, social networking, either their own party apparatus or whoever suggested them to those functions. Whether it's this person or not, that's what we're going to see. I'd like it to be that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68208	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68209	Thank you. I agree with what you said about the election procedure itself. We made an easy deal at the beginning of this debate. It is only important to be precise, objective, responsible first for the work we do and then for what is done and said. I don't think we need members of REM or any other independent regulatory body that should say yes or no. I believe that we need members of the regulatory bodies who will strictly comply with the law, apply the law literally and work in the best interests of all citizens. Perhaps there is a misunderstanding that often appears in public, and what we can see when it comes to proposed candidates. I think the candidates are good. Of course, now it may be my subjective opinion, since most of them I know personally, because we worked together in a professional way and in life. So, I do, and we agree here, that it is extremely important to choose individuals from the authority, professional integrity and experts in the media area, and to what, after all, the law obliges us. Indeed, of all the candidates proposed and Dragomir Zupanc, whom you mentioned, an exceptional expert, an exceptional acquaintance, not only in the media but also in film and culture, etc., the winner of countless awards and recognitions, a man who could truly advance the REM Council. That's what I mean for other proposed candidates, and yes, thank you for reminding me, it's important to say that candidates who did not, unfortunately, pass there, first of all, think of Dragis Kovacevic, the excellent candidate was... I'm glad we had a really difficult task between good candidates to pick out those we're going to discuss today, so now that's up to us, right? Dragisa Kovacevic is an extremely good candidate, also someone who could by his professional authority and integrity be a good REM member. Unfortunately, he didn't get the necessary majority, but I'm glad someone like him is at all, so someone who's so professional, even more like a candidate, and that means something to us. I think it's extremely important that we have good, excellent candidates and that it wasn't an easy job to choose the ones we're going to plead for in the tide, so maybe it can be a good and positive experience when we next choose the members of the REM Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68210	Thank you, Mrs. Vacic Mihailovic. The word now has a representative of the promoter, president of the Committee on Culture and Information, Mr Mirko Krlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68211	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. At the very end, I am glad that we had one professional finale from the Committee member and I only remains, in addition to gratitude, of course, once again for all the members of the Committee on Cooperation and all the dynamics and energy that has been introduced to finally select REM, that I may ask all of us a question – since when has such an interest been in REM who, you will admit, has not been back in years, it has not been since 2017 when the competition was first called? It all happened since the Belgrade elections. This is the moment when the terror of today's opposition realized that there is no more room in parliament, that there is no more room in this hall, that they are no more on the electoral lists, that there is no more ratings, because when there is no censorship in Belgrade, what would be in one Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljev, Zrenjanin, Novi Sada. It was, of course, the moment when he began to look for an exit, a political exit and an excuse for all that condition. The justification was found in that, as I once said, it was better to pretend dead than in April to find out that you haven't lived long ago. Political death was real for many political parties, and some do it, here, and in advance. He said he had been waiting on TV to finally see his exposure and he and most, 99%, of the current Serbian opposition, since May, will watch this hall only through television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-25-0.u68212	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the search on the list of candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're working on it tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. So we're making amendments.
