ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65850	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. During the last Thursday of the month, we as a parliamentary club, among other things, as well as the SNS and SRS parliamentary circles, because of the number of MPs, rarely arrive to ask parliamentary questions, so what we wanted to ask on Thursday, we will set up today, and we will reach out to another topic, which we consider to be of great importance and importance. In fact, we wanted to ask the question first of all to the Minister of Information and Culture during the last Thursday, because we do not have the opportunity to ask the competent institutions in terms of the Association of Journalists, it would not make any sense, because then we would feel that we are interfering in the freedom of the media, but that is why we have the right to ask the question of the Minister of Information and Culture, so let him forward the question to the relevant press associations. Our question is does freedom of the media mean that every day we look at a new front page with the same message, a target drawn on the legitimately elected president of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, until the goal that one seems to want to achieve is achieved? Is this media freedom or is this a media lynch? It is clear that each front page carries a certain message, and is this how someone openly wishes to liquidate the president? We had no doubt that such messages as one part of the opposition would pass through the media would come to the enthusiasm of that very part of the opposition. Is it the only thing that a part of the opposition has to offer this bravely through certain media? Last week, from the same part of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, we could hear threats here from the Assembly Hall by arresting certain main and responsible editors of daily newspapers, individual television station owners, commercial television stations with national frequencies, and not so long ago at one of the press conferences very open and direct threat of shutting down certain commercial televisions. This is definitely no longer a policy on the essence of which politics exists, but rather a call for lynch, a call for violence, violent and violent behaviour that must not in any way become a norm of social behavior in Serbia. A lack of idea, a lack of political power, a lack of influence from a part of the opposition definitely leads to the increasingly primitive behaviour that has long overcome political frameworks. History in Serbia will not repeat itself in its worst form. The policy of violence, hate policy and the policy of conflict of one part of the opposition definitely, we had the opportunity to see even during yesterday, fostering the radicalization of the actions of their supporters or supporters or whatever. Fearing that the destruction carried out continuously by representatives of the opposition's work will lead to more severe consequences in the form of hatred, permanent threats to the life of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, unfortunately, becomes a reality. It is high time that the judicial authorities took the legal measures against those who send this hatred and unscrupulous threats almost daily. It's true that their courage comes only through Twitter and Facebook, sending embarrassing messages. Serbian citizens recognise that because Serbian citizens do not want destruction and violence, Serbian citizens want peace, stability and prosperity. Coming to power in Serbia cannot be achieved by violence, but by democratic means, in the elections. However, individuals do not want to get involved in democratic processes, but at the most important moments for Serbia, when President Aleksandar Vucic talks with the president of the Russian Federation on vital issues for our country and our people about Kosovo and Metohija, trying in every way possible to devalue the results achieved by Serbia in the internal and international fields of action. It is certain that such a goal will never be achieved because Serbia is on a safe path to the progress and better life of all its citizens. But what we want, not to point out as a question, but as an appeal and a plea to the competent authorities and competent institutions, to take seriously these kinds of threats addressed to the legitimately elected president of Serbia, because it seems to us that someone here definitely has the goal of reaching power without a choice in Serbia. Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65851	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to see the President of France and his statement on the future of the EU. So the European perspective for the Western Balkans no longer exists. Now these countries that have not become EU members are offering something called "little Schengen". So, all of our 19-year-old dream of us becoming EU members, and that's why we've done a lot of damage to our country, from co-operation with The Hague tribunal, over everything related to KIM and some of our internal affairs, we've finally seen that issue closed. Now is the right time, in our opinion, that the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian government are considering foreign-political alternatives. As you know, the SRS has been in Serbia for 30 years seeking as hard as possible and as close as possible to Serbia's integration with the Russian Federation. We want to see the Republic of Serbia as a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, as a member of the ODKB and achieve as close as possible co-operation with all BRIKS countries. We think that this is a much better solution for us than a "little Schengen" than a European lobby, and we think that Serbia needs as much as possible a stronger commitment to Russia. I remind you, the Russian Federation defends Serbia's territorial integrity in the UN Security Council. If there were no Russian Federation, Kosovo would have been there long ago as an independent state. I will remind you, in 2015, the International Community, which is a euphemism for some of the most powerful Western countries, wanted to bring through the Security Council a resolution declaring Serbs genocide and credited to Serbs with some fictional crimes, and the Russian veto prevented it. And we think it's already very clear who our sincere friends and true allies are. And that's why I want to refer to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Assembly the question - when are we going to talk about it? First of all, we should. We should know that then for Serbia means energy security, first of all, economic security and, of course, safety from anything that could be called aggression. That's what we'd get by tying to the Russian Federation. What is also needed, and we think it is hypocritical that the Russian Federation, which currently defends Serbia's territorial integrity, not only in the UN Security Council, but also in all these organisations where Kosovo could not become, as a republic of Kosovo, a member, such as Interpol, UNESCO and all others, we think that Serbia should recognise the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation as soon as possible. So, if they are our protectors, if they take care of Kosovo and Metohija, so that Kosovo and Metohija remain within Serbia, the Serbian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should decide as soon as possible on the recognition of the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation with the Republic of Crimea and the town of Sevastopolj in its composition. They protect our territorial integrity, they are our true allies, and the least we can do for them is recognize their territorial integrity as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65853	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65854	Thank you, Chairman. The parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party would like to ask the president of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and to tell us exactly what happened during an interview that President Vukic gave to Russian journalist and Russian Duma MP Jevgeni Primakov younger this April. According to news released by "Blic", after an interview by Mr. Primakov stopped performing in the capacity of journalists and reportedly made an offer for the formation of the Serbian government, which he requested the former government's representatives to enter, specifically that part of the opposition boycotting the Assembly and which already announced in April that it would boycott the upcoming elections, and in this sense it is additionally interesting that it is now a potential Russian influence that someone who announces the boycott of the election be installed in the Serbian government and thus influences the formation of the highest state authorities by someone who has presented himself as a representative of Russia and first presented himself as a journalist. So, did this happen or not? Because the N1 delivered the news yesterday informing citizens of President Vukic's statement that something like this didn't happen. On the other hand, "Blic" in his news also said President Vukic's statement that the rude Russian offer really happened and that, I quote, there is an official note about it. Do some of the responsible security services provided by the president know who has access to the highest state officials and who can, acting as a journalist, come and possibly deliver one such offer to change election results or to take place beyond the election, with a boycott of elections or in some other way, with international pressure form some of the highest state body, specifically the Serbian Government and that someone is installed in the government? What is unclear here, and it is unclear, apart from whether it happened or not, did Mr. Primakov say that offer or request or proposal or not, and if it is, does he perform as the official representative of the Kremlin policy or possibly perform in his own personal capacity with some personal agenda or an agenda of some informal power centers from Russia? If we win this issue inexplicably, it could potentially endanger Serbia and Russia's relations, and therefore we would like to get a written reply from the president about what really happened, since the way this thing is reported by "Blic" and N1 in both cases by conveying alleged statements from the president is not clear whether this happened or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65855	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday the president of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin, presented to the president of the Republic of Serbia the rifle of King Milan Obrenovic. He probably heard about the threat of the gang of thieves and frauds, so he wanted to give him an effective defense weapon. I expect that Marinika Tepic and that Bulgarian journalist Gajtandzieva, before they ask the question of how the rifle was exported, which company exported that rifle in its own time, who gave consent, etc., I ask what will the authorities do to protect our dedicated industry? Yesterday's talks showed Russia's will to help Serbia further improve its dedicated industry. No one outside can help us, nor can Russia, if these insides are eating up our dedicated industry, our production that employs between 11 and 12 thousand workers and from year to year physical production is growing. What will the state do, the competent authorities, to protect against malicious rumors of the dedicated industry and enable it to work normally, prevent spying and this kind of action, where the business partner Dragan Gilas from the combination of the Darekt Media? That's my first question. Tonight, the famous Judge Majic, who freed 11 Albanian terrorists who killed 80 Serbs, will torture 250, will host on N1 television. He will likely be visiting Yugoslavia's Cosic, a drug lord's adviser, the tropoic mafia, Bakim Ulaj, Albania's tropoic mafia. In this regard, I ask – what will the competent authorities, say the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Money Laundering Authority, etc., various financial authorities do to check all these links, how, why, who, who is financed, who financed the NGO of Mr Majic? It's the Justice Research Center. Yeah, and he didn't get any Albanian money, too. from Pristina, from Kosovo, from Albania, since Yugoslavia Cosic does not dispute that he won money from Baškam Ulaj? Is there any connection there and, thanks to these financial transactions, does the Republic of Serbia suffer, as the media did not immediately after Oliver Ivanovic's murder, possibly Albanian criminals stand behind the murder, but immediately accused Serbs and Serbia? So, to examine this financial link, at least to examine whether the money, which has arrived in Yugoslavia, Cosic, and perhaps the Centre for Judicial Research, has been paid a corresponding tax. For example, in Yugoslavia, Cosic and the lady who is with him at the firm, was she paid when they raised that income tax, what must be paid under the law? Finally, the state authorities answer me - are the demonstrations held for days, months, and years in Belgrade, public gatherings reported in accordance with the Public Assembly Act, how many times have they been reported, how many times have they not been? Is it true that Yugoslavia Ćosic organised an undeclared rally in front of the Serbian government, it seems to me, in November, around the 16th and what the state and the authorities have taken towards the leaders of the gathering for not reporting public meetings, which is a legal obligation, that is to say, have appropriate applications been submitted to the competent courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65857	I thank my colleague Rističević. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice, or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65858	Thank you. My question goes to the MUP address, and I've been preparing to ask it for a long time, but there are always more current or more daily topics. It has been almost two months, and there have been some reactions and comments in public, but not answers from the official and highest places. So, the MUP and, of course, the Serbian government, Mrs Ana Brnabic. The issue concerns, at the end of September, a statement by former Austrian Interior Minister Herbert Kikla, who was visiting a show in their pre-election campaign, I quote this, for the first time, as a minister, I have concluded a contract with Serbia where people who receive a negative response to asylum in Austria, but cannot return to their countries are taken to Serbia. He said former Austrian Minister Kikl and he still transferred to his colleagues for being resented now. Unlike them, there's something he does, and he did. We are not really interested in the Austrian political struggle, but we are also interested in something directly related to the state of Serbia and not some deal alleged, but I am afraid it is not alleged, which the Austrian Interior Ministry has concluded with the Serbian government, or with the Serbian MUP, to accept the denied asylum seekers in Austria. A team earlier, now made a statement at the end of September, and before the Austrian press wrote in 2018 that the negotiations with Serbia were in that direction and that talks were being held that Serbia would accept not only from Austria, but from other EU members the rejected asylum seekers' demands. So it's something that deserves a serious comment. I am not someone who will unfoundedly raise drama, alarm the public or spread, I don't know, some kind of alarm about the danger that threatens migrants, but we can't even close our eyes to that problem that most EU countries are dealing with, which is a serious issue in pre-election dialogues and polemics both in Austria and Germany, France, Britain. All over Europe, this is an important serious topic. It just seems that nobody in Serbia cares, and I would say that for a double reason. The government does not want many waves to be alarmed by the public, so as not to raise concerns and fears about the subject of migrants, and part of the opposition, I stress a part of the opposition, as if it does not want it to tend not to be accused of xenophobia and similar things and perhaps not to resent some centres of power in the EU and beyond. Anyway, my direct question is the Ministry of the Interior -- how many migrants are there, so how many legal migrants are there at this point in Serbia? How long has it been through Serbia in the past few years? How many asylum applications have been filed? I know the demand is very small. And a very important question -- what is the structure of sex and age, means the gender and age structure of migrants currently in Serbia because I know that such records are being kept? Of course, what is the structure of these unregistered migrants, and what is the relationship between registered and unregistered, because based on serious indications it can be said that many more of these are unregistered? Incidents are across Serbia, especially in border or border areas where their numbers are higher. About that, as I said, both our media and our public are mostly silent. Last week, here in this Assembly, in this hall, counterpart Ševarlic was attacked and accused of being a fascist minority because he had asked the issue in a normal way to the authorities of the Serbian state, and at that point there was a literally raid, i.e. That evening, a raid where several illegal, or unregistered migrants in Somboro, were arrested in a very dramatic manner in just one night, or, as I said, collected and transferred to Presevo. Half of them are back tomorrow, back again. And that, as I said, is quite problematic and symmetrical that structure, especially of these unregistered migrants, unlike those registered where you have a family with children, and these humanitarian motives that are not controversial, but I think that under the act of humanitarian aid and action, a lot of things that are unacceptable and inconceivable, in relation to the state of Serbia towards the migrant crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65859	I thank my colleague Vukadinovic. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here's a colleague of Parezanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65860	I thank the chairman. I have two questions today. The first question I ask the Ministry of Defence and the question is: is there any new information and as far as it came with the "Topcider" case, i.e. the murder of two guards Dražan Milovanovic and Dragan Jakovljevic, which took place on 5 October 2014? As is known, the guards were killed while on guard duty near the underground shelter, the Karash military underground shelter. The military investigation conducted at the time was conducted with many suspicious failures, believed not to have been accidental. First, it was said that one soldier killed another, then committed suicide, that a month later, it would be declared completely the other way around, causing additional pain to the family and friends of the murdered guards. However, the analysis of the first independent commission, followed by the FBA and the super-art in the United States, proved irrefutable that none of the guards committed suicide, i.e. that the guards killed a third person, and the destruction of evidence and failures in the investigation were so great that even today 15 years later, this case was still in pre-criminal proceedings. It has never been investigated, and there has never been an operational investigation into what the guards could possibly see, or what they could have witnessed in that place. Recently, information appeared in public that the paraffinic gloves of the murdered guards had been planted, and they were the only evidence of this original military investigation. Certain information has also appeared that there was a larger amount of hidden narcotics in the secret facility. It remains unclear how Vuk Jeremic, the adviser to the then president of Serbia, first learned about the murder of the guards in front of everyone in the chain of command, and it is generally known that Vuk Jeremic is a person who has a constant need to prove to the public that he always finds out first, that he has information about different secret things, that he predicts the future, he knows what two people are talking about in four eyes. And when he's so smart and he knows everything, I wonder why he doesn't tell us who killed Drazen Milovanovic and Dragan Jakovljevic because I am convinced that the real truth in this case knows only a few people in this country, and these are the people who made the then state military summit? Why do they keep that truth to themselves, only they know it, but they need to be sure that every secret is learned sooner or later. What is devastating is the fact that the state of Serbia at the time was the state in which the parent sends a healthy child for military service, and the state returns his child back to the coffin, so it is not enough yet, but tells them that their child is a murderer. The second question, unfortunately similar first, and I will ask it to the Ministry of Justice and the Commission for the Study of the Murder of Journalists, and the question is whether there is any new information and how far it has come with the investigation into the murder of Milan Pantic, a journalist "News" who was killed on June 11th 2001 at the entrance of the building he lived in. This murder was relatively small at the time compared to other cases. Milan Pantic had the accident to be killed at a time when he arrived in Serbia, so-called. Democracy, when in power was a self-called elite that didn't exactly support the fact that Serbia at the time was the only country in which a journalist was killed What was even more devastating, 11 years later there was no movement in the investigation, which tells us how much the state at the time cared to know the truth about the case. Only after the change of government in 2012 and later by the Commission's activity in investigating the murder of journalists has there been serious developments in the investigation, i.e. the motive of the murder was established. So Milan Pantic was killed because he was investigating robbery privatisations. In the first six months of 2001, he published over 20 texts in which he spoke very precisely and concisely about the various machinations made by individuals, which apparently were not ready to allow him to continue. The crime without punishment has sent a message to other journalists, researchers, that it is not a good idea to deal with these topics, and the epilogue is a number of robbery privatisations that we have witnessed in the 2000s and that have even dealt with the EU. Today's opposition and the already-known self-proclaimed elite very often likes to talk about freedom of the media, about the threat of journalists about various pressures on journalists, and you will often hear them mention different names, but you will never hear them mention the name Milan Pantic, whether it's a conscience or if they just calculated that it's not politically very convenient for them, they know that. I can only imagine what would happen if crimes like this were happening today in Serbia, what those who paint targets at the head of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and who pointed a sniper at him on the headlines. I think that is precisely why it is very important for the state of Serbia to do everything in its power to find out the truth about these crimes, and those who at the time ruled Serbia and who were unable to prevent these murders, to solve the killings, to prevent the state from covering up these cases. There is no need to lecture us today about anything, to reveal alleged secret information, because as much as they cared about the truth at the time, the best witnesses and most of all, were members of the family and Drazen Milovanovic and Dragan Jakovljevic and Milan Pantic, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65861	Thank you, colleague Parezanovic. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular on the 15th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON IMPLEMENTATION OF LAWS IN PUBLIC SERVICES under Article 90(1). I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that they are invited to attend the meetings of Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Zoran Đordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister, Zoran Kasalovic, State Secretary of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Bojana Stanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Borajana Bogdanović, Head of the Department of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and Gordana Bozanić and Biljana Grandović, senior advisers at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the Prophet Radet, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mircic and Marijan Risticevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65862	We have submitted several amendments to this bill because we think agency employment is absolutely unnecessary... . I'm sorry, public sector employees, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65863	Yes, the draft law amending the Public Service Employees Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65864	Okay. We have also submitted amendments there because of a major problem that exists in the public sector, which is the fact that for 19, almost 20 years, all governments in the Republic of Serbia have promised to make payment classes to reward public sector employees in true legal frameworks. What we have now is very bad. We already talked about it yesterday, we have a situation that you have in the cabinet of the president of the state, let's say people who have a higher salary than the president. You have in the National Assembly people who are employed, who have higher salaries than the president of the National Assembly, etc. You have drastic differences in profits by local self-government in Belgrade, compared to some smaller environments. It all has to be arranged for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is that you also keep talking about wanting to achieve even development in the Republic of Serbia, and that is impossible among other things if different salaries are paid by people employed for the same job. in Black grass and in the Savaweave. It's just not possible. The position of the SRS is that in these paying classes it must be established that the highest salary must be made by the President of the Republic, then by the Prime Minister of the National Assembly, the President of the Supreme Court, the Cassation Court, etc. and that all other salaries are in line with this highest salary, but for these salaries to make sense, the lowest must be 37,000 dinars, as is the lowest consumer basket today in Serbia. So the basis for that law you plan to pass must be that at this point, when it's the law, it's probably going to be more, that the lowest profit must be 37,000 dinars. Compared to that lowest, the highest president of the Republic is formed, and everyone else is amongst them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65865	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65866	I thank the chairman. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 339th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, for which they receive their wages neatly. In this way, they show their relationship to the function they perform both towards the National Assembly and to the citizens of Serbia. So soon here will be a full year of boycotting the work of parliament, not the wages, but only the work of parliament and I am glad that some media have started writing about this issue and that they have calculated how much it actually costs the citizens of Serbia, how much they hate it, and especially if we have in mind that the vast majority of them are constantly working in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For some of them, even the National Assembly pays rent per month, such as that of Boška Obradovic, and I am glad that citizens have the opportunity to be familiar with all these facts. Of course you won't read all of this in their media or hear it on their TVs or on "N1" or "Today", "Time", "NIN" and other media. Unfortunately, you won't hear it on RTS even though you should. Probably those with RTS are afraid that Gilas will react to it, so they're afraid to object to Dragan Gilas. However, the chairman would take this opportunity to look back on a brutal lie in one of today's lists. I call it a daily list because I am a decent man, although it is a political pamphlet of the Alliance for Serbia. It's a daily list of "Today" and to be clear, those from "Today" lie daily about us from the SNS. This is already measured by thousands of newspaper articles, but this lie is dangerous because it is about alluding to freedom of expression, banning speech and censorship. All that is otherwise the product of a former regime that is characterized by Dragan Gilas and others from the SZS, because it was their product when they were in power and censorship and not media freedom and not freedom of expression and everything else. We have on the first page, in fact the other side, the article, they say -- how do you comment on the fact that SNS MP Aleksandar Markovic showed a patch for Marinika Tepic, to which he would block her mouth? It's kind of a question, in some column or column, and now some people are commenting on it. Well, we have this Janko Veselinović, remember that Janko Veseinovic, was also an MP here at the National Assembly. He had some Turnover Movement, if I'm not mistaken, although counterpart Ataglic had a nickname for his Turnover Movement, in any case this Janko Veselinović is known as a member of the Google opposition, because you can't find information about his movement on the Google either. These are not my words, these are the words of Draža Petrovic, the editor-in-chief and the editor-in-chief, this very "Today". So Draža Petrovic told Janko Veselinovic - member of the Google opposition, because you can't find information about his movement on Google either. There are some journalists trying, here's that Srdjan Skoro and he found it appropriate to comment on this. Well, we have that Miroslav Parovic, I don't know if you know who Miroslav Parovic is, but he is a new member of the "wine coalition", and "wine coalition" is a new political party on the political scene of Serbia, led by Velja Ilic with that General Stojanovic and there is this Parovic and the people nicknamed "wine coalition". You can conclude for yourselves why the "wine coalition". There is a Yugoslav Kyprijanovic, who will know who he is, writes here that he is a member of the Dveri presidency. Why do I say this is dangerous? Because they say I showed a bottle of Marinika Tepic, with the intention of clogging her mouth, and it's not true. What actually happened. This Marinika Tepic, or Chobana or Zivka, or as many of these extensions, in terms of her last name, had a press conference here in the National Assembly the other day. There's a lot she's been saying, it's not a topic right now, but during her address to the media, I expect after my press conference, a SNS patch, whatever she's thinking under the patch. Incidentally, I had an appointment, from an earlier appointment, a press conference, after her press conference and before my press conference started, I brought a band-aid, showed it to the press and told the press -- since the previous speaker asked for a patch, here if anyone sees Marinika Tepic, let them give her a patch. So now I don't know why she's gonna have a Band-Aid? Did she get hurt, anything at all. So I did some good work and gave a band-aid to a colleague who needed a patch. So, I had a need for citizens just to point out what really happened at that press conference. So, the chairman, there is no way to say here, to say, that it is an attempt to prevent the speech of Marinika Tepic. We from SNS look forward to whenever Marinika Tepic speaks. That it is fortunate for Marinika Tepic to come here to the Assembly, where she belongs, and to say something from here, but not to her boss, Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas is the boss of all of them. So, how can I tell you, we're glad when Marinika Tepic and everyone else in that SZS speak, because that way, they directly destroy the SZS rating by putting out various conspiracy theories, putting out various scenarios for thriller films and everything else, and we look forward to every address. Now, for the very end, the chairman, since the marines, let me say, is a leading advocate of conspiracy theory and I see that it's her fault and that what she's interested in, here's something I've been doing on the Internet, so I'd like to recommend her leading conspiracy theories on the world level. So there's a conspiracy theory that man didn't even land on the moon, there's a conspiracy theory that the country is actually a flat panel and there's a conspiracy theory that reptiles rule the world, but only few can see them. So if it's a reading, which she's interested in, there's a lot on the Internet about reading it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65867	Thank you, colleague Markovic. There is, according to the amendment, a National MP for Serbia, Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65868	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Markovic said one thing well, so I'll just add that fact that whenever they write some stupidity, those of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas, Obradovic, Marinika Tepic Cobanu, as already, is jumping to us. I pray to Marinika Cobana or Tepic, that every day, not only on Tuesdays, every day, he holds his conferences all day long. I ask Bosko Obradovic to write tweets day and night, not to stop writing them. I ask this guy, Veseinovic, to write, that the more they threaten to rape, the more murder, the more hangers they wear, the more threats their maniacs make to us through social networks, to call for as many murders and rapes as possible, because that's how they just jump SNS ratings. Of course, we don't need them to threaten or write anything, because we create roads, we open factories, we build bridges, we raise salaries and pensions, and people feel better life, and that's why they're also jumping the ratings to Alexander Vukic and SNS. We have no intention of stopping doing this, but we will continue to do it at a stronger and faster pace and in the coming years ahead. But I want to look back on what came out in what's called some free media, or whatever, and it's actually just a means of sending direct or indirect threats to Alexander Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, our MPs, and colleagues Markovic, are members of the family of all SNS officials, particularly President Aleksandr Vukic, what does that story mean about the patch? He wants us to forget that they wore hangers. What kind of message is that? What's the message when the opposition protest or what they call themselves opposition, they're nothing, they're a bunch of lunatics and maniacs, they're no opposition, they're all idiots, what opposition is hanging around their assemblies? This has never happened in Serbia. People, let's open our eyes and look at the reality around us to see when the opposition in Serbia is at any protest, whatever the parties were protesting, they've never worn hangers, saws, or referred such monstrous threats to the president of the state, ministers, MPs, anyone. Then we come to write, in what he calls himself a newspaper, in "Today", to say that counterpart Markovic threatened, I don't know, Marinika Tepic with a patch. She, the woman, asked for the patch herself. Did we look for the gallows? To our MPs, our president was threatened with five bursts in the back and that's normal. What Vesenović didn't comment on and said - people, it's not a way to lead a political debate, we can't talk to each other like that. What message do we give to citizens who watch the National Assembly, who follow politics, read the newspaper? Does that mean that everyone who thinks differently should be hanged? We are the ones who have established the highest degree of democracy in Serbia, that at no protest of the opposition you had any police officers. No one bothered them. Almost all their protests haven't even been reported. None in accordance with the law were maintained, and they let them walk as long as they wanted to, do whatever they wanted. But we just said, people, don't call for violence, don't call for murder, don't call for hate. Here is another call for violence in Serbia, by asking for a delay in holding elections. Where is it? In any normal country in the world or any other country, let me know that the elections have been postponed because those who think they have the deed to opposition, that they're the only opposition, because they said they needed elections to postpone. There are laws in Serbia, there are institutions, there is a Constitution, and if we want this to be a normal country, then elections will be held when it is time to hold or when the government does not have a majority in the Assembly. There are constitutionally and legally prescribed conditions when and under what conditions and delay elections, and they are delayed when you have a state of emergency in the country. One of the things you'd have a state of emergency in the country is some kind of bloody civil conflict. And, in fact, it is behind the story of Bosko Obradovic and his demand to delay holding the election. He threatens Serbian citizens with bloody conflicts in Serbia. What does it mean to draw a target on Alexander Wolfie's forehead? What does "Nin" sniper mean? What does that all mean? It means that in Serbia you want conflict on the streets, that means you want dead. Is that the opposition program? Guys, are you crazy? They talk about some wars, they call on wars in their own country, and then they expect that people to support them. People who are sick of conflict, the suffering of accidents, the suffering of misery and horrors, these people offer only horror, misery and misfortune. So people in Serbia are not naive or crazy to vote for those who want to conflict on the streets of Serbia, so they say the SNS is organising protests against the opposition, and another nonsense. Who protested against the opposition and what are they? To be an opposition, you have to have a critical attitude towards power, but not a threatening attitude, but a critical attitude. He implies that you have some idea and a suggestion of how you're going to do something better or how you're going to do something different in general. They have no idea. One of them wrote on social networks this morning -- what we need the highways, we don't need, we need to replace that one, we need to shoot this one. Well, good for you if it's a political idea and a political program. But I'm telling you -- the SNS has citizens' support for the results and we don't need any protests against Djilas, against Obradovic, Tepic, who already did. They're anticipating themselves. They don't need SNS to deal with them, nor do we deal with them. People who went out mass in the previous days, thousands of people, across Serbia, did not protest the opposition, these are people who are sick of being called upon to conflict, these are people who just want to work, want to live peacefully, politely, with dignity, do not want to be robbed and distracted. These are the people who went out to support President Alexander Vukic and his politics. These are people who have come out to support a better life in Serbia, these are people who have come out to say – a lot of threats, a lot of conflicts. They may not all be the voters of our party, but they are normal, decent people who demand that there are no wars, no conflicts, no accidents in Serbia. These are people who want to grow GDP in Serbia, these are people who want to open new factories, new jobs, those are people who are looking for a job for their children, these are people who are asking that politics offer them a reason for young people to stay in Serbia, to live in and create families. These are the people who look forward to announcing an increase in money the state will give for the first child, the second, the third. These are the people who look forward to positive things in Serbia. Don't let us distract these people, threaten them, that way we can get them out of here. So which young man will they leave in Serbia if we are constantly threatened by the sword of some bloody civil conflict? That's all we need. There's no one to fight with, and now that there's no one to fight with, let's fight with ourselves now. There will be no fighting in Serbia, there will be no fighting in Serbia, there will be no hangings, there will be no shootings, there will be new salary and pension growth in Serbia, there will be new factories, there will be new jobs, there will be a better life for all citizens, and there will never be room for them in the Serbian Parliament again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65869	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65870	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer myself to my fellow MPs. Dear Ministers, as you yourselves know, indeed unlike the MPs who have joined this Alliance for Serbia and for a year and perhaps longer are simply not part of this Parliament and do not want to come here to work, we who are here are constantly and today discussing important drafts of the law. But apparently, on the other hand, it is our fault that they are lazy and have failed the citizens who voted for them in the elections and who practically sent them to this parliament to defend their interests. I would like to comment on a statement, a nebulosis that came from the DS. They, remember, took over some time ago to be led by a man who has repeatedly proved to be completely political illiterate. So Lutovac said, I have this statement here, says – Alexander Vukic is responsible for the decomposition of DS and the disbanding of their committees that took place the other day. My fellow MPs, not on Twitter alone, Bosko Obradovic, also has a MP Balša Bozovic on Twitter, who supported this statement. How unserious is that, and what happened to people who have been back in politics for decades, and how can they not be ashamed to make such statements? However, we have come to the fact that now they've actually confirmed what we all knew, which is that they're dealing with only themselves, they've always dealt with themselves, and now they've again shown that they're dealing with themselves. If they were dealing with people who voted for them, they would do their job, they would come to parliament and they would represent the interests of those citizens who voted for them and the interests of their political party, because that, I would say, is quite legitimate. What is sad about this moment is that we know that there are DS MPs who would return to parliament, but unfortunately are not allowed because of Dragan Gilas. To them, Dragan Gilas now determines how they will behave. He's completely managed to destroy the DS. However, citizens have seen through the reasons for this, citizens have seen through the reasons for constantly inventing affairs concerning Alexander Vukic, which concerns our ministers in the government. Now we can certainly say that the citizens are certain that because they do not have any political programme, that because they have no idea how politically to act from that ambition that Dragan Gilas finally introduced them to and completely ruined them. So, I just want to say that in addition to this statement of DS and more than funny, I want to say that we will continue to work here, that we will continue to talk openly about all proposals of the law and on current and daily topics, if necessary, and that, of course, the citizens will be able to appreciate it in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65871	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Mr. Seselj, would you like a replica of my colleague's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65872	I don't think it makes any sense that you advances boast that you've destroyed the DS. (Alexander Markovic: Who boasts? So boast. And your president boasted and said - yes, he did, that's all you're saying. Right? Who destroyed DS? First, we Serbian radicalised it in 2001 and 2002, when we exposed Zoran Djindjic as the main mobster in Serbia. Furthermore, the DS after Djindjic destroyed itself, forcing you. She nursed you, nursed you, nursed you, gave you publicity, financial assistance, everything, you took over her program, and she went out. So she destroyed herself first of all. Well, after you came to your senses, you saw that program wasn't good, so you kept some elements, and you went back to your patriotic position, so now hold both of them. (Alexander Markovic: When did we leave with the patriotic, to return? So you left when you agreed with Boris Tadic, the monster Miki Rakic, who held all the ends of all the police, all the mob organisations in Serbia, until God removed him at one point. Then about five years ago, you took serious steps back to your patriotic position, and I have to admit it. Although that's not exactly what I'm crediting myself for, I guess it was your initiative, not just the facts of my return. Isn't that right, Marco? You know that. Marko Atlagic knows all that. That's why it's a good thing DS shut down, because it was made up of radical apostates. You know how she came to be. That's what you, Martinovic, should know. Ljuba Davidovic made DS out of radical apostates, so-called Autonomous Radicals, which had separated before the First World War and at one point formed a special party. And that which is turned away from the Radicals, or one day he returns to the radicals of repentance, as a stray sheep, knowing that he has made a mistake, or gone astray, and gone away. I'm glad you're back pretty much on the patriotic option, but you shouldn't mess up on that option anymore. Now it's time to say -- pop pop, Bobba. Those from the west said - no more with Russia. I'm glad you said we'd go with Russia, and now from the west there's an offensive, and in that offensive that you know that we're going to stand on the fender of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65873	Thank you, Mr. Sashal. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65874	Mr. Ruzic is not the news that you have delayed the adoption of the Payment Class Act, but is the news which is the path in turn. This is the fifth time, the fifth year in a row that we have such laws, before that are the two ministers in the vault that you are now running it tried and promised Kori Udovicki, then Ana Brnabic. But I will still go back to the exposés of the then prime minister elected immediately after that exposé of Alexander Vukic, 2016, who as the predecessor of this announcement, as he said in public sector reform, wrote an authorial text for the British Financial Times and said to the dictionary - it will be a difficult and difficult road, we may have a demonstration on the streets, but we have to finish this job. Here, at the end of your term and rule from 2016 to 2020, what did you do? Absolutely nothing, out of promise. Before you came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, did you finally count the total number of these people by delaying the adoption of this law? You started off with some fantastic 700,000 figure to cut to half a million in a year and now you say it's 350,000. You've heard the SRS's position repeatedly spoken. Payment classes must be defined so that the salary of the President of the Republic is the highest then known for the hierarchy of elected persons and appointed persons, but for the work that public officials do in Montenegro, in Subotica, in Baja's Garden, etc. You have to find the exact same measure and finally edit it, you've even announced that in one part of that job that will be started, and yet now with this base that you're establishing a minimum labour price that doesn't cover the average consumer basket, when we say on average it's 37,000 dinars, it's not even the highest, it's even over 40,000 dinars, you're going to set 30,022 dinars as a minimum, and that's when you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65875	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65876	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike others, I support both Lutovec and Gilas, and I very much support them. Without them, the source of all the evils of the birth of the yellow woman who gave birth to all the bad things would be difficult to deal with. Our best soldier in the yellow party, in my opinion, no matter what we don't influence them are Dragan Gilas, even some, but Lutovac isn't even the one doing those works. The "Ljub Davidovic" association through which they finance themselves. So, these DS wastes are now gathered in that association, and they're getting a piece of money from debt slavery, that is, from Dragan Gilas, who launders money in that way. So, interest money puts into the "Ljuba Davidovic" association, from there again takes money for its activists, and then takes money from the outside for those same activists, and in such a way he continues to profit in the ruins of the DS. I have to admit that Gilas is so good that Zoran Djindjic didn't want him either, he knew his collapsing power and his desire to take private business to public office and that's why he took it away. That's why I'm looking forward to Dragan Gilas running it all, which is why Marinika is helping him, which Lutovac doesn't do anything, which Balsha is crying, which is what Alexandra Jerkov who passed the CIA training doesn't know what she's going to do, can't tie her left to her right. So I'm very glad. As for these salaries of public officials, I support that these deadlines should be extended, but once we must lead to the fact that MPs cannot have lower salaries than regional, local officials, various head agencies, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65877	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65878	Maybe this is a real opportunity to show how and how the government is considering amendments to the SRS. If you look at this Bill of Amendments and Law Supplements, you will see that in this Article 4 proposed by the Government, the law comes into force eight days after the publication in the Official Messenger. In the light of the proposal for this law, gentlemen, the law applies to 2021 and 2022, provisions 30 and two other provisions come into force at the beginning of next year, but the government stresses that urgency over here is necessary for something that will take effect in 2021 and 2022. We suggest, just in order for a trial to be made conditionally and to see how the Government does it seriously, we suggest that this Article 4. The government's proposal is deleted, it could be 15 days, and it could be 30 days. However, the government has ruled it out. This is one of the indicators of how and how the government reacts when it comes to opposition parties' proposals in this case, the SRS. Nothing would have changed if you'd put on 15 days and 30 days, nothing would have changed there. But what to do is I guess they're watching who's proposing, so when they see the name and the party they belong to right after automation, they don't get into the essence of what they want. You have a grateful role, believe me, there are rare opportunities for governments to be in such a situation. You're all prescribed, you're just missing that detail to write a schedule to the ministers during the day what you need to do, what you care about, or the schedule from the World Bank or the IMF or the ambassadors, of course, America, Germany, England, depending on who's defined within the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65879	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on agency employment. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, Marijan Rističević, Aleksandar Seselj, Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Petar Jojic, Zoran Despotović, Djordje Vukadinović, Aleksandra Belačić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Milorad Mirčić, Ružica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Nikola Savic, Miljan Damjanović and Filip Stojanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65880	The Serbian Radical Party is against the adoption of this law. We think agency employment is another one of the frauds that makes you, among other things, determine these unemployment rates, instead of doing it through the National Employment Service. And so far, these agencies have been working semi-legally, formed by local self-governments, so employees in these agencies were getting 30% to 40% lower earnings for the same job that they did employees who stayed in local self-governments, and so you got rid of those who don't belong to your political parties and that's something that's common knowledge throughout Serbia. We wonder if, for example, when building corridors, highways, if these companies, subcontractors will take workers through agencies to exploit them as much as possible and pay less and then we remind you and remind you, and the public, above all, that we are in October 2018. So, it's been a year, for the first time in the conference, and here they say there's a big scam going on, that Zorana Mihajlovic, with then Ambassador Scott, has made a deal that the Bechtel American company is doing part of the corridor on the highway from Preljina to Pojat. You wanted to take our eyes out. You claimed that we were making it up, that it was not true, that no memorandum was concluded, and we also claimed that the Bechtel business would receive 300m euros from the budget more than a Chinese company, which was interested in building this highway. You brought a Lex specialis based on which only Bechtel met the conditions to get this job, only to place the picture. Ten days ago, some MPs, now not to call them, said here: you radicals, you make up no Bechtel. Call me when they get back. You'll see you were wrong. This morning, Bechtel concluded a commercial contract. So Zorana beat you from the 300m-euro budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65881	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65882	Radeta's colleague is wrong. The law that we have passed, as regards the construction of the Moravia Corridor, clearly states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will make a public call for all those interested in participating in the construction of the Moravia Corridor. So, on that public call anyone could apply, companies, or construction companies from other countries could also apply. Under the circumstances, apply to the ‘Bechtel’ consortium, ‘Enka’. Bechtel is an American company, and Enka is Turkish, so no one else registered. The government of Serbia and the president of the Republic have not defended anyone from applying for the public invitation. A public call is something written in the law regarding the construction of the Moravia Corridor. And companies from other countries could apply, but they didn't. So now, what do we do? To stop the construction of the Moravia Corridor until someone has mercy to answer a public call. He contacted the consortium of these two companies, I say one is American, the other is Turkish. It is important for Serbia to build a Moravski corridor, for Serbia it is important to continue to improve its traffic infrastructure, and what is also important, is that Serbia today is a major construction site in which Russian companies, from China, Azerbaijan and domestic companies, will now build this consortium of US-Turkish. For citizens, it's nothing wrong, I even think it's very good to have a relatively small country like Serbia find the largest and best companies in the world. Perhaps the situation for us would have been better in 1999, if there were both Russian and American and Chinese and Azerbaijani and many other companies here, hardly anyone decided to bomb the state where his company performs the works. Unfortunately, Serbia in 1999 was unable to invest so much in traffic infrastructure, we are now able to do so. What's good is that this time every highway, every corridor that is limited to the city in Serbia in terms of completion of works, and as you can see, these deadlines are respected in the day. I invite you, Mrs Radeta, now, on December 18th, will be opening the Obrenovac highway – Surcin, so you see, it will be another proof that our construction operation is very good for contract deadlines to be respected, that the quality of the works is very high, and what is also very important, the companies in Serbia are doing, practically throughout the year, no interruptions, even in December. Serbia is developing, roads are being built, as is developing railway infrastructure with the help of our Russian Federation friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65883	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65884	Normally, we about Bechtel, we about 300m euros stolen from the budget, and representatives of the government about building corridors, as if we were against building corridors and building highways. Of course not, but we're against stealing from that job. For 300m euros, to be received by Bechtel, this part could be built that should go towards Požega, which is not yet planned because you have not provided the money. First, Bechtel is no state-owned firm and has nothing to do with the US state, except be one of the private companies in the United States. It has to do with former Ambassador Scott, who brought them to the whole area, so the same Bechtel worked in Croatia, Romania as well. In Croatia, the minister resigned when he discovered how much state money he gave to Bechtel. How it came to be that Bechtel meets the conditions, so that by the invitation letter we talked about here in October 2018, you made such conditions that only this Bechtel could meet them. Then you say-- how is that possible? Bechtel is the only company, the only company with which transactions are concluded by direct contract. So, you've abolished the public procurement of the performer, providing contractors for this highway, imagine what all the imaginations are. Let me tell you, Bechtel is a company, it's shown up where she worked, takes Turkish companies for subcontractors, Chinese working and working in Serbia, for subcontractors, Serbian companies. In many ways there is a big difference, not just in those 300m euros stolen. You will see, you say that everything is done in the day and so on, you will see what problems we will have in this part of the Moravia Corridor, precisely because you assigned it to a company that knew that this would be done more than a year ago and that took the money, we repeat, with Scott, with Zorana Mihajlović, and that is something that will eventually have to be examined in detail and therefore has to be answered. Do not take advantage of the fact that Bechtel was the only one who met the requirements. You know, that's how competitions are discussed for some jobs, functions and so on, everything is drawn, only the picture is missing, so Bechtel got a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65885	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65886	It is not true that no one but Bechtela has met the conditions of a public call, but you must understand that companies coming from different countries of the world have their own economic and financial interests. The Serbian government didn't say this job must be obtained by an American company. A public call was made and anyone who wanted to answer it could have answered it. I don't understand. You're referring to it insecurely from Sunday to Sunday, day after day, how someone stole 300m euros. I don't know how you think someone could have done it. From what I understand, the payment will be staged. The way the works are done on certain sections of the road, so will the payment. Do you think that today Alexander Vukic in the Serbian presidency took out a hundred bags of 800m euros and gave representatives of the US company? No, it's going to be paying in accordance with the work done on certain parts of the road. I don't know how you imagine paying in the 21st century, cash? That's not how you do it and that's not how you do it. Besides, you have another fact that you are neglecting, which is that the construction of the Moravian corridor is financed from a loan taken from, if I'm not mistaken, Exim Bank, so it's another proof that no one has stolen and no one has donated 300m euros and another proof that no one has given 800m euros to anyone today, but that the payment will be done in accordance with the work done on certain parts of the road. You're probably aware that the Moravia Corridor is planning to be built in the next four years. So, it cannot be built in seven days, in six months or in a year, it will be built for four years, but when the Moravski Corridor is finished, then from Belgrade to Vrnjaka Banja you will be able to, without some quick drive, arrive in an hour and a half. Secondly, the Moravia Corridor will be important not only for those places along the Moravia Corridor route. It will also be important for people living in Kopalnik, for people living in Raska, in the towns of Raška Management. It will be much easier and faster for them to join the corridor and reach Belgrade. This so-called. The Moravia Corridor, as we call it, will connect two corridors – Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. It must cost something, but no one stole 300m euros, and especially the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic would not allow it, since he is the signator of the contract, unless you want to say that he stole 300m euros, but Alexander Vukic would not allow himself, and in particular he would not allow any Serbian government minister to steal 300m euros, so that your story is simply not true. That's nice to say, since you're the opposition party, as someone stole from the budget, paid 800m euros and stole 300m euros. No payment has yet been made and no one has stolen 300m euros, and particularly has not been done by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65887	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Since you and your colleague Radet have both been reported, I must give you the right to be president of the Parliament Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do not transfer to the Wolf. We are not accusing the President of stealing or intent on stealing from the Republic of Serbia, but I will... (Alexander Seselj: The squirrel says he stole it. Take it easy, take it easy. At this point, it's your policy not to go further against the Americans, but to suck them both out of there and decide not to buy new weapons. Now we stop and wait for a better chance. We haven't sucked oars, we've been doing this business for decades, ever since Communism. Do not think that Zorana Mihajlovic went with the president of the Republic to Russia that she suddenly became very influential in the government. No, he brought her with him to keep an eye on her. Who knows what she could do here in his absence. With NATO, with the CIA, with anyone taking power and now what? NATO enters, walks in, has permission to walk freely in Serbia and remains in Socije. Okay, in the summer months, you'd know what to do in Sochi, and what to do in winter? He doesn't know how to ski. These are very serious things, and that's why we keep pushing them like this. The Chinese have calculated the value of 500m euros. Bechtel showed up with 800 million. A few days ago, it was told to the public that it was possible to cost 100 million more. Is that right? Did Zorana Mihajlovic, herself, state that this is not the final number? When Anna Brnabić defended it in the National Assembly, she said – yes, but there are other works, and optical cable. Do you know how much that optical cable costs from Chuck to Pojat? Two, three million. He can't do more than ten, not at all. Can you do it, Branko Rose? You're the minister, you understand. How much can that optic cable cost? You're not even listening to me! How about more than two, three million? He can't. Here, she knows Branko. He says there's going to be some agri-mellorative work. Did I say it right? I did. Well, why wasn't that given to us in the project, let's see what the works are, the irigation works. That's what the Chinese would do. They can't be works, minors, as well as the value of the highway, especially now with 100 million purchases. Then what's with the Lex special? What are we doing with the Americans? What's the role of Scott then? Why didn't he go for all the other public competition jobs, so who went out with the best offer? (Alexander Martinovic: So he went.) ) What does it mean to go and you said in advance who would get the job? (Alexander Martinovic: What did we say? You said nice... (Alexander Martionovic: How? )......................................................................................................... And that pre-contract you signed and the Lex special. (Alexander Martinovic: How? You have well predicted that only Americans can do so. Why should the Chinese now conflict with the Serbian government, when they say – if we don't get that job, we'll get another one again. But the Chinese would hire domestic subcontractors. The Americans plan to bring in Turkish and that is another big loss for Serbia. We'd be more optimal if we paid more to the Chinese than the Americans if our subcontractors got into business. These don't leave anything behind. They're carrying everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65889	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65890	You're wrong, Mr. Seselj. Here, I invite you, let your fellow Members of Parliament pass you the law adopted by the National Assembly as regards the construction of the Moravian Corridor. If you find one provision in a law that says in advance which company will get a job, I will resign and will no longer be a MP, but I tell you there are no such provisions. There is no such provision. The law says that the government of the Republic of Serbia will issue a public call and a public call is called. Any company, domestic or foreign, could have made that public call. With circumstances, he reported to a consortium called Bechtel-Enka. One company is American, this Bechtel, and Enka is a Turkish company. They answered and signed the contract with them. As for the memorandum, the memorandum represents an expression of willingness to enter a business and that is legitimate. It's legitimate in the business world. Why would you now be angry with the Americans or tomorrow at the Russians or the Chinese if they sign a memorandum expressing their willingness to join an infrastructure project in Serbia? The memorandum did not in itself mean that the contract would be signed with them, but they expressed their willingness to engage in the construction, that is, the realisation of the project. Today, on the basis of a public call, which only came to this consortium, a contract was signed. That's what this is about. I'm not going into these prices you've been talking about right now, you know more about those optic cables and how much it costs. I don't understand that. (Vojislav Seselj: The minister confirmed that he understood. ) Well, he confirmed the minister. Great, and the minister understands. I don't understand, I admit it, but I'm telling you how it was. Next, you said we were giving in to the Americans. What did we give them, Mr. Seselj? What? What part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia have we sold? What national interest have we trampled? Where did we endanger anything about the citizens of Serbia and for the benefit of the United States? (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. So, we didn't do anything. I know, you like to put things down on personal matters. You've targeted Zorana Mihajlovic. She's an American spy and you hit Zorana Mihajlovic. (Vojislav Seselj: You defend her. No one can defend her. That's legitimate what you're doing. I don't mind. I'm just saying this is a state project, this isn't a Zorana Mihajlovic project. Ministers are variable. Maybe Zorana Mihajlovic will be minister in the next government, maybe not, I don't know. I'm telling you, this is a state project that will take four years to build. I can't know in four years who's gonna be the minister. After all, that's the least important. It's important to build that road, that highway. It is important for the citizens of Serbia, and it is important for us to be able to raise the end more economically. Vrnjaka Banja is already the centre of tourism in Serbia. When you combine all those places along the route of the Moravia Corridor, when you have in mind that near Moravia Corridor there are places, i.e. municipalities from the Raška Management District, that there is Kopalnik, then you can assume from what economic and tourist significance the construction of the Moravia Corridor will be. This is all the more important than whether the Minister of Construction Zorana Mihajlovic or someone is the fifth. Zoran Mihajlovic is a minister today, four years from now who lives and dies, may not be. It's important to do it that way. What is important for Serbian citizens, once again to point out, no one has stolen, no one from the SNS, and especially the president of the Republic that signed the contract, no one has stolen a dinar, let alone 300m euros. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65891	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's MP, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65892	Don't make us believe there's an urgent need to build the Moravia Corridor. We agree with that from the very beginning. We've never disputed that. We need it and we need it as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible. We need to regulate the Basin of West Morava, and that's what we need, and the surrounding rivers of Rasina and others. I used to be there, 40 years ago, working on regulation of the river Rasina, the Great Morava, etc. And on Lake Cells, and bloody blisters on his hands. Therefore, we agree that it should be built, but you signed the Memorandum of Understanding before the law on the construction of that corridor and the Lex specialis you passed. That lex specialis is actually a way to implement the Memorandum of Understanding. It's a prenup. Second, why didn't you let the Chinese make an offer? You're all done with the Americans, and then you say the Chinese couldn't stand it. How can they stand it? There are discounts to the Americans. I'm warning you to hang in there. You've given in before. You almost gave up on the Smaderes. You remember I held three press conferences proving that that imaginary American firm, registered somewhere in the Netherlands, was making a scam, and then overnight you gave up on it and found a happy solution, which we supported. We also supported the solution to Bor. We support all the right solutions. Nothing that is right and in Serbia's interest has been questioned. We attacked the IPA agreement. It's a NATO discount. We attacked the fact that NATO officers have an office in our General Staff. It's a discount. The discounts are both these packages of Brussels agreements. And we warned that, and when it came to fulfill something in the interests of the Serbs -- there is no. So now what you've agreed on about these power potentials and power grids, they're now joining Albania. There's no way to stop it. Is there any way to keep the Gazids safe? And that's it now. I'm afraid that doesn't go to Albania either. So, you did give in. Look out, you have experience in Milosevic's time. To the more relaxed Americans, their appetites are getting bigger and bigger. We'll get into a situation someday, let's say -- well, no more giving in. That's why we need S-400, which is why we need Russian weapons left to stop bombing again. That's who they are. They act like that everywhere in the world. They're hitting China now, and they're not going to hit Serbia. They want to take everything. You'll see how these things go around Moravia Corridor. There's no way they're clean. We have the experience of the Croatian president. That's where they got sick. Almost twice the price turned out to be at the end than it's really worth. That means it can happen to us, too, and it can, except for this 100 million, increase another 200-300 million. There's no end to that in four years. It's gotta end sometime. As far as Zorana Mihajlovic is concerned, we fully agree. There's no reason to think about it, is that so Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: That's right. ) Here we agree, Martinovic confirms. Let's not talk about Zoran any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65893	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, you certainly know that I am the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and you certainly know that the work on the design of the Morava trough is extremely costing. You also remember the flood in 2014, the catastrophic floods that cover the area. After that, you forgot, we passed a new Water Act. The estimate of 500m euros was before the adoption of the Water Law, the new Water Act, adopted by the Assembly. That's what I answered. This Water Act, we sharpened the conditions of this Water Act on all works, etc., so that the new highway had to cover the new Water Act, which requires additional costs. The arrangement of the corita Morava is not the only arrangement, but the arrangement of the tributaries that are poured into Morava. The highway, not only enables traffic, but according to this new section, a new highway project, you will agree with Mr Martinovic, allowing us not to re-emerge in catastrophic floods from 2014. So, to prevent them, to warn them, and that costs. You don't have to make a highway at all. Try these works on Moravi to perform, on the tributaries. Try to protect that area from floods and you'll see that it costs far more than 300 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65895	Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65896	Mr. Seselj, I'm sorry you're leaving the O.R. right now, but I just wanted to tell you something about Bechtel. Something else happened in Croatia. Harmful contracts with Bechtel have been signed by Ivo Sanader and their Minister Bozidar Kalmeta in Croatia. But it's not Bechtel's fault, it's the two of them because they wanted to get rich, and that's why they're against one and another court proceedings in Croatia. The US company cannot take more care of Croatia's interests than the Prime Minister and the minister in his government. It's the same in Serbia. If Bechtel earns, and Serbia is damaged, and we will be guilty, it will not be the fault of Bechtel, but don't compare it, I hope it wasn't Mr. Seselj's intention to compare Ivo Sanader and Bozidar Calmet to Alexander Vukic. So Alexander Vukic is the opposite of these people. It's a man who loved, I'm talking about Eve Sanader, loved expensive life, loved expensive suits, watches of several tens of thousands of euros, drank wine where a bottle of wine cost several thousand euros, etc. Alexander Vukic is the opposite of that. Therefore, if Bechtel managed to trick the Croats, it is not the fault of the Croats themselves, it is not Bechtel. As for the quality of the works, Bechtel is one of the world's largest companies in the area. There are no bad highways in Croatia. The roads are good. If they are overpaid, it is not Bechtel's fault, it is the Croatian government. This is the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, who really made sure to pay as much as it really cost. Otherwise, if he wanted to steal, he could have already stolen tens of millions of euros in how many roads were built in Serbia. But he didn't steal it. As you can see, these in this section of the opposition that come to the sessions do not accuse Alexander Vukic of stealing anything. They'd like to break out of trouble that they can't say that he stole anything, and he's built so many roads, but they're inventing false affairs involving his closest associates. But for Alexander Vukic himself, they can't say anything at all, that he stole anything, or that he signed a harmful contract, or that he did anything contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens. That's what this is about. So, that comparison between Serbia and Croatia, as far as Bechtel is concerned, simply does not stand. As for what Mr. Seselj said, I wish Serbia could be straight America, but what are we supposed to do now? We have two options. We have an option to fight the Americans, we tried that, we saw how we went. We have another option to try to be a little wiser now, a little smarter, to try to preserve these Serbian national interests as much as we can, and not overly resent any great force. Don't have any illusions that anyone in the world likes Serbia in a special way. There's no love in world politics, there's interest. As Americans have interests in these areas, so do other great powers. What is the task of every Serbian leadership, and of those who will come after Alexander Vukic and SNS, if it is wise and rational?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65897	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65898	I'm done. That this Serbian boat, our small Serbian boat, cannot be compared to either the American or the Russian or the Chinese large ships, that our little Serbian boat is moving through these world storms and storms without breaking down against the rocks. That's what I'm talking about. Well, that's our policy. It's a rational and responsible national policy. Would anyone like us to be stronger than the Americans? Well, I probably would, but we never were, nor will we ever be. Now that we're not stronger than they are by weapons, by economy, by technology, let's even if we're leveled by diplomatic intelligence and diplomatic skill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65899	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Col. Jovanovic, would you like a replica of the presentation of counterpart Martinovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65900	Things are not as simple as you want to present them and do not again, Mr. Martinovic, to transfer that Serbian radicals have said Vucic compares Serbia with Croatia and makes a panda of what Sanader did. Things are much more serious. First of all, let us say that we know a little more about Bechtel's business than you MPs might or may not have wanted, you didn't think it was necessary to be interested, but here, perhaps I am now interested in a colleague of Atlagic, because he is a serious man who always wants to have facts, not just because of this affair in Croatia, where after the announcement that this contract is unfavourable, one of their ministers resigned, I forgot, it is irrelevant to his name, but to return to the business of Bechtella and before getting that job, before getting a job in Romania, how does this company work at all? We have said more than once that it is not, that it is not a state-owned company, but private and it has no state capital, that the citizens of Serbia know, as we have the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and others. It is a private company, but with clear and direct ties with officials in the US administration. George Schuls, then, William Casey, all the officials at the top of the CIA and the U.S. administration, since that period in 2003, more precisely since the Americans destroyed Iraq, killed Saddam Hussein and made an unremembered terror over that people, they've just been through these CIA ties and influences in the US administration getting a job. Imagine, Bechtel restores Iraq, and before that, they destroyed everything with NATO's evil bombs. They get jobs in America exclusively, because they have these connections at the very top of the U.S. administration and, above all, in the CIA. How come we're making a parallel with Serbia? It's not a CIA agent, it's Zorana Mihajlovic. She was the one who had extremely close, friendly, if you want family connections, if Scott was coming to her glory, with Kyle Scott, former American ambassador. It is interesting and not only that the journalists in Serbia wrote about it, there are a whole series of other studies of American journalists dealing with investigative journalism, that in every country where they want to get a job, they do so by lobbying through the current US ambassador in the country. Of course, for that purpose Kyle Scott and his excellent connections to Zoran served them here and, of course, nothing is for free. Now, you've asked here several times today and said, come on, bring me what the National Assembly of the Republic adopted, Lex specialis. Of course it doesn't say "Bechtel". Why doesn't it say so? In any case, if the state of Serbia had gone differently during, this contract would have been ratified in the Assembly, and it will not be, as it will not be ratified in the US Senate either. According to that old people's saying, is that, Mr. Atlagic, that Vlassi don't know, if many know, you can tell the story about how it happened, before this memo that Zoran signed with "Bechtel", I'm sorry, Mr. Milicevic, it's very important, I'm making these digressions that the citizens know, signed a memorandum with the US government on co-operation in the area of infrastructure. That is why the key was found not to go to the public procurement process, but to form the basis for signing a contract with Bechtel, which builds 300 million at least this time that we are talking about today, and I believe we will continue, as I have further explanations for my colleague Martinovic and the entire Serbian public.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65901	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65902	Dear colleague, it seems you have not listened well to the president of your party and the president of your parliamentary group. He said we passed a law saying that the work on the construction of the Moravia Corridor would be done by the American company Bechtel. And I invited him. He left the O.R. in the meantime. I know you have an important meeting. So, he left the O.R. in the meantime. I invited him to show me where the law says that. The law doesn't say that anywhere. The law says, I repeat this not because of you, you know, but because of the citizens of Serbia, the law says that the Serbian government will make a public call to all who are interested in building the Moravia Corridor. Under the circumstances, a consortium of American-Turkish appeared and signed a contract with him today. There was no pre-negotiation, because a memorandum of understanding is not a pre-contract. The memorandum is the expression of a desire to get involved in some business and in the business world it's quite common and it's quite legitimate. The Americans have their legitimate interests to engage in the construction of highways on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, like the Chinese, like companies from Russia and from Azerbaijan, as well as domestic companies, after all, etc. There's nothing illegal about it. There is nothing here that is at the expense of Serbian citizens. It is not true what you repeat that anyone stole 300m euros because no single dinar was paid to the US-Turkish consortium today. So it will be paid by dynamics as the contract provides for, that is, the completion of works on certain sections of the road, and the construction of the Moravia Corridor is planned for the next four years. In four years, I really don't know who's going to be sitting in the Serbian government and who's going to be the minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure, and if it's even going to be called the ministry. He's a non-essential minister. The important thing is that the highway, or this corridor, is done. What's important is that there is no thieving, no theft, and especially no theft when it comes to the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, as signator of the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65903	Thank you. As I've been informed that the replicas on this subject have lasted a long time, allow us to move on to the amendments. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: That doesn't matter. Yes, it does, because that's what the chairman decides. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. He's not here. Does anyone else want to? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a discussion on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a discussion? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65904	Mr. Ruzic, we are absolutely against agency employment. In a principle debate, Minister Djordjevic tried to explain to us that it would finally be introduced into normal flows and that agencies would have to respect, allegedly, the Labour Act. Absolutely in each amendment, submitted by the MPs of the SRS, the provisions of the Labour Act have been incorporated, but as it should be brought, not the one that is disastrous. We now see that you announced, and that in 2021, you will bring a new Labour Law, or new assembly of the congregation. In this amendment, I asked on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that the employer, beware, the employer respects the provisions of the Labour Act, the collective contract and everything that arises from that. If it's the agency, Mr. Rose, she's not an employer. The Agency is dealing with the theft of something protected by the Constitution, which is the right to work. Someone's working, and the employment agency is stealing his work. The agency doesn't do anything. She's just mediating, she's giving people a licking, she's making concessions without being able to say, by system, take or leave, they're acting that way. This worker, who because of the failure of a full-time job in the Fiat and the workers go to 3-4 months paid leave of 65% salary because there is no production there, then says Milanović, or "Simens", if that can be compatible with their production, give me that welder from "Fiita", because he has not enough work there to come to the factory "Simens" at Kragujevac, he has to accept it because he simply has no exits. Does the agency respect all the work provisions? He doesn't respect. Because neither the right to strike, which nor any other collective rights that would be normal if it were the original, real employer, can't be concluded by the workers, because they're not in that situation, they have to choose it. There is talk of a number of over 60,000 employees, and not only that, but they have no security at all, and they have no hope that one day, as is the case with other jobs that take place through the National Employment Service and when it is directly concluded with the employer, after the end of the contract on temporary and occasional jobs, they will get work indefinitely. Practice has so far shown that all those agencies that started, you know it well, because you are a long time and a folk MP, to be founded in 2003. First some Swiss, then American and so on, and today 116 other agencies registered in Serbia for the job. To steal someone else's work and register the employment agency is enough to go to the APR, so, to submit a thousand or two thousand dinars, all the documents needed to make a stamp and say, as of today, I own the employment agency. He is then like to make deals with those who bring foreign companies to Serbia, with local sheriffs and those who now and Vukic want to drive out for crime and corruption in Serbia's cities, with directors of public enterprises, and what does it cost them? It doesn't cost them anything. Imagine if the employment agency "Post-Serbia" started hiring people. So, they don't give contracts to the mailman, they take the agency and they say, "Now you're some mailman I'm going to take over, and now you're going to do that area instead of going to somebody else, 'cause that's what the agency says. People, are you aware that the right to work is something that should be the most protected in this country? You bring the Employment Act through agencies that will continue to terrorize the poor in this country, and they will wrap their heads and keep quiet, because that poor minimumer and what they receive must bring home for their children to have bread to eat, and the agencies will garner huge money on the masses of those who, for commission, who will hire.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65905	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have already heard a whole series of reasons why the SRS is against this Agency Employment Act, which is because it is clear that the adoption of this law, especially its application, will be one big step backwards for workers' rights and even human rights in Serbia. It is quite clear to you that whenever a certain exception to the system law is made, which in this case is the Labour Act, this should not be done first and secondly to violate, compromise and reduce workers' rights. Who are they that will be primarily affected by this law? It is those who are the poorest, those who are the most vulnerable, those who have the lowest qualifications, and for what workmen's profile is at least, I would say perhaps demand, and the largest offer on the labour market. All workers, it's something that's completely natural, looking for stability. Every man in his life is looking for stability, seeking a permanent working relationship, seeking good conditions, seeking the possibility of a union organisation, demanding that he have all the rights that, even if declared, guarantee him the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the system laws that regulate his right to work. If you give an open opportunity to rent workers, you can say it's a new kind of slavery, because they're people who don't have a choice. No one who can find quality permanent employment will come to that agency, because it will neither have a better salary nor have better conditions. There will be, as our people would say, those who, from day to day, are unable to provide for their children, their families, and those who care about the crust of bread and who will be forced to humiliate themselves in various ways, to wait for where they will be sent, where the employer will work, and it is clear that they will never be able to exercise the rights guaranteed to them in such a system of work. How do you think someone gets the right to a union organization when they can change a large number of employers in a very short time? That's, of course, impossible. It opens up different opportunities for job-bending. This opens up different options for dealing with non-matched and perhaps the worst of all there is no possibility or this possibility of permanent working relationship and permanent employment is minimal and practically completely excluded. So, we need to define whether Serbia will be a country that will care for the well-being of all citizens and that will protect above all others and who are the most vulnerable in themselves or that you will continue to protect those who crush on other people's work, on other people's torture, on other people's blood, by the great means such as these agencies will be. Another great potential problem is the problem of corruption. You know very well that it will succeed and be successful for those employment agencies that are close to the regime. You know that a large number of local self-government and ministry, that those tens of thousands of contracts, are not a mistake, tens of thousands of monthly contracts, and on an annual and hundreds of thousands of contracts, they conclude temporary and occasional contracts. They will conclude with their party activists. Finalizing with bots. It will conclude before the elections with citizens who need to provide them with safe and capillaries and that, of course, is the only way to damage the state. The state will be damaged, but the ruling parties will be satisfied, as they will thus be able to provide for those who do certain field work for them, not in the citizens' interest, to provide them with certain funds. So, are you for a new slave system, a little made-up and a little decent, exactly, Mr. Markovic, or do you want the state to be, as you promised, the state of all citizens who will care about the interests and benefits of all citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65907	The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandra Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65908	I've been thinking, Mr. Chairman, if I should take my word for it. However, I felt the need to simply answer and point to a few inconsistencies in the address of the previous speaker. So here we have, as we would say, crocodile tears over the position of employees, over the position of workers, etc. in the presentation, which is precisely this law, and we also said that in the principle debate and about it, there should not be any dispute, this very law, among other things, equalising those rights and obligations of employees, especially when it comes to the problem that was real in Serbia, so employment through so-called ". The contract on temporary occasional transactions and we are equating with the rights and obligations of the Labour Treaty. That's what's most important when it comes to this bill, and that's the concrete benefit for the citizens and for the employees, just those employees, meaning the fate of the previous speaker falsely regrets. So, even when it comes to profit and overtime, and when it comes to other rights and obligations arising from the applicable Labour Act, and when we talk about employees indefinitely, we are now equating that, let me say, working-legal position with others, and that's what's very good. So, these people so far have not had the right to leave, nor the costs of going and coming to work, nor have they been paid overtime and all other categories covered by the Labour Act. So I'm asking you to take a good look at this before you start criticizing some legal solution. I know you can do it. You are a kind of lawyer colleague, Sarovic, and you have some experience in the parliamentary function, so that is one suggestion for your future announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65909	Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65910	Mr. Markovic, one thing is what you will formally declare, and another is what is the essence of the law. You're from the Vrachar municipality, so tell us what it's like. Vračar municipality in the last six months or in this year concluded those contracts on temporary and occasional transactions. That's hundreds and hundreds of contracts if not thousands. Those contracts were concluded with your party activists. What's changing now? It's not going to change anything in a qualitative sense for them. The only thing that changes is that instead of those people with whom contracts are directly concluded, which is now going to be run by some agency set up by one of your party's officials, one of the sponsors, one of the finance guys, and what's going to cost extra. That's the point. Don't talk to me, Mr. Markovic, about crocodile tears. You're most in pain with facts. The most painful fact is that all the data, including those on the lowest level of real pension value in the last 20 years, are based on the Ministry of Finance's data and are absolutely correct. You're, as you say, very well understood about the number of days since something started and since it passed. You understand how much it costs to Serbian citizens, so here I am asking ministers for days and weeks -- how long has it been since the adoption of an unconstitutional law on the temporary way of paying off pensions, which makes hundreds of millions at the level of the year and billions at the level of these six years, kidnapped by pensioners, but you refuse to disclose exactly what it is, let's see how much for each year of implementation of this law, which violates the system law, as you are now breaking the system law, how much money you are... (President: Bring the end, colleague Sarovic. )......................................................................................................... I end up, kidnapped by the pensioners of Serbia, those who are current pensioners and all the futures because you have reduced the basis for calculating pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65911	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65912	First, no one took anything from anyone when the Constitutional Court said the law was in accordance with the law. It's not enough just for you or anyone else to say that the law isn't constitutional. That's not enough. That might sound nice. Maybe someone will believe you. Personally, I don't believe anyone will believe you, but someone might believe you. That's not enough. It is necessary for the Constitutional Court to say whether something is constitutional or not and it is only relevant. We've heard here and a series of other lies about how, I don't know, we've hired hundreds and hundreds of people in the Vashhar municipality, from which I come. The only truth we've heard from the previous speaker is that I come from the Vashcar municipality. Yes, of course, I come from the Vashcar municipality and what I can say is that a minimum of people have been employed as much as possible. It's measured not even for dozens, and why? If the previous speaker knew the system, he would know that when it comes to hiring by so-called. There's no way you can hire as many as you want. Perhaps in your Old Town municipality, where some of your friends are in power and where they destroy that Old Town municipality every day with your support, all-out support, I'm talking about Bastac, of course, maybe that's allowed. In other municipalities, that's not allowed. You can't hire as many people as you want. The regulation says the total number of employees under the Agreement on Temporary-Time Jobs could be up to 10% of the total number of employees. It's not optional, it's not whether you want to or not. You have to, and then there's no talking about hundreds and thousands, etc., but we're used to telling the truth. When it comes to hiring party activists, functioners or I don't know what we've heard here, it's an absolute lie. Even if we wanted to hire, we couldn't because of this restriction that I was just talking about, which is a matter of law, not free will. Again my appeal goes in the direction of studying this matter. If you tried a little hard, I'm sure you'd make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65913	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65914	So, Mr. Markovic, if you are already referring to the Constitutional Court's decision, you are not a lawyer, the Constitutional Court has not even dealt with the assessment of constitutionality, because the Constitutional Court in Serbia, except on paper and other than some people who receive salaries there, but the Constitutional Court does not really exist. The Constitutional Court does not make decisions when asked, but waits, as a servant of every regime, for the regime to wink when a decision will be made. And that's the problem, the Constitutional Court, for 20 years, since the five-eyed bulldozer of the revolution, whose liquids and your heritage, whose ideology and personnel you've inherited, works exclusively by the authority's orders, that's a fact. The Constitutional Court said in its decision that it estimated that the government's objectives were justified. The constitutional assessment of whether the objectives of the government are justified. Well, that's crazy, you don't need a man to be a lawyer to understand how much it's legal notsens. The Constitutional Court says it's fine, since it's temporary. How long can you take a pension? A year? Five years? Ten years? By what time is it temporary? You took it, you cut it, permanently. Compared to 2012, you reduced your pensions to 86% of the real value and it's a scandal. The second thing, regarding the Vrachar municipality itself, I have invited you to tell us what the data is and how busy people have been in the last six months or a year. You say they're not hundreds, they're not dozens, they're smaller than that. It means it's less than 10, as you claim. I absolutely don't believe in it, Mr. Markovic, that in the last six months or a year, under the contract of temporary or occasional jobs, in the Vrakar municipality, less than ten people have been employed. I call upon you to plead immediately, is it a lapus, did you say something by heart, so that you have pounded the people's words, or are you still saying that there are fewer than ten in the last year or six months?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65915	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65916	I don't know where to start, Chairman. Come on, what does the Constitutional Court do if I don't assess the constitutionality of the law? Here, I ask you, you're a lawyer, an excellent lawyer. What does he do? The second question, what were you talking to this Constitutional Court about, what were you talking about? Why did you ask for a constitutional assessment, if this Constitutional Court doesn't exist, as you say, or if you don't recognize it, so how do you address someone you don't recognize? How do you address someone who doesn't exist? So these are specific questions for you. I have to comment on the part about pension cuts. So the base that's a retirement bill, this year, that base is calculated on the basis of, not the reduced part, so the base is predominant to the fiscal consolidation measure, before the reduction, so it's not diminished, but that's what you have to understand. And then when you realize that, you'll see how pointless what you've just claimed is. When it comes to this part of the Vračar municipality and the number of these contracts on temporary occasional transactions, I will repeat, although it is clear to everyone, it is not a matter of will, one cannot even want to give these contracts infinitely. So the law is quite clear, 10% compared to the total number of employees. If I'm not mistaken, the total number of employees is about 150, and the yellow ones left us with an inheritance. I will remind you that the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power in Vračar municipality, only in 2016, until then 20 years of DS Cerupala, destroyed Vračar municipality. Remember the press conference we held, we explained that hundreds of millions of euros were total minus, debt. Like Old Town, there's only one difference, you support these in Old Town every day in every place, and I have to ask you -- what do you need to get out of power more with Marko Bastic in Old Town? What does it take to happen? Every day, a man performed miracles in Belgrade. He used to fight construction workers there every day, fight with the citizens on the street, interfere with the works. Then we caught him with that money when he tried to smuggle it, 13,000 euros or how much, so that's not enough either. In the end, a married godfather comes to him and says, "He put a bag over my head, kidnapped me, held me, bullied me, beat me, and it's not enough for you to get out of power in Old Town."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65917	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65918	Mr. Markovic, when you read that daily press, you don't need to read it selectively. You say they caught Bastac with some money he brought from abroad. How much is that compared to what Vulin brought? Five percent? I can't hear you arguing that Vulin is responsible for that, too. Let's once set some criteria that are going to be the same for everyone. Secondly, Alexander Martinovic gives you bad advice. If he had anything to say, he'd answer, he wouldn't talk you out of it, and he wouldn't be sufling you if you were dealing with the Constitutional Court. You're asking me why we spoke to the Constitutional Court? We have spoken precisely to show that this is not an institution worthy of the confidence of Serbian citizens. We spoke to prove that the Constitutional Court is a political court. If we hadn't taken advantage of that possibility, then we'd be in trouble. We have fought to protect the interests of Serbian citizens and the interests of pensioners in Serbia, and just the decision of the Constitutional Court and the time it took the Constitutional Court to make, which is five years, says it is a political court and only works on the orders of each regime. The other thing surprised me even more, Mr. Markovic. You say the Yellows stole hundreds of millions of euros from Vracar. Is that right? That's what you said. Is it true? I understand. I ask you, Mr. Markovic, who answered? How long will you protect the thieves? How long will your regime protect yellow thieves? Hundreds of millions of euros and you have knowledge of how many criminal charges have you filed? How much, Mr. Markovic? Hundreds of millions of euros, as many as could have been built in kindergartens and health homes, which is not yet out of the hundreds of millions of euros, you know and protect yellow thieves. Shame on you, Mr. Markovic. Don't do that again. It goes to complicity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65919	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65920	I thank the chairman. As a kind of lawyer, Nemanja Sarovic should know that there is no possibility of someone breaking the law a little or a lot. Like that folk saying, you can't be a little pregnant or very pregnant. So either you're pregnant, pregnant, or you're not. So he unknowingly tried to defend his coalition partner, Mark Bastac, with him breaking the law a little bit. Well, you can't break the law a little bit. If the law says that up to 10,000 euros are allowed, or that more than 10,000 euros must be reported, then you do not have that argument - but it only had 13,000 dinars. What was he supposed to be, 20, 30, 50, 100? I can understand that you prefer these larger amounts, that it's not big money to you, but he was caught in a customs offense. So he had almost 3,000 euros more than the limit compared to having to report that money. When it comes to the other sins of your coalition partner, Mark Bastac, all of Serbia is talking about it. All Serbia knows that a man tied his wedding godfather to a chair, put a bag on his head, beat him and bullied him all night long, and you avoid giving me one very simple answer to the question what else does that man need to do to finally get you out of that coalition power in Old Town, where Chief Marko Bastic is? Is he supposed to kill someone so you can say enough now and now we're really leaving that coalition? When I was talking about the Wizard, I was talking about total losses, minuses and debts that are measured by hundreds of millions, so it's terrible data and it's not for laughing, don't make a joke out of it. So, criminal charges are timely, procedures are ongoing, we'll see what happens in the end. So, but it's the same matrix of government and former yellow, former government in Vracar, as the current authorities in Old Town where you're a participant. That's the point here, and don't replace the thesis. You're a participant. I ask you, when will you leave the coalition power with Mark Bastac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65921	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65922	Here, Mr. Markovic says he filed criminal charges and procedures are under way. I beg you, Mr. Markovic, to tell me exactly how many criminal charges you filed? I very much support you, and every honor to you for that, here I congratulate you in front of everyone, and I would really like you to give me copies of those criminal charges you have filed, because I would really like to do so in the coming period that I can criticise as strongly as possible those yellow thieves that you inherited in the Vračar municipality. So, please deliver those criminal charges. I'm also very interested in seeing how many criminal proceedings are under way on your criminal charges, provided that it is, of course, true and that it's not an empty story. If you deliver everything you've done to me, I'll commend you one more time. If you don't deliver, be sure, Mr. Markovic, that I'll bring it up for this pay phone, too. As for who needs to answer, those who have the highest position in society should respond to Mr. Markovic who steal the most. The problem here is that the hack is only being led against those who are not your coalition partners. When will your coalition partners meet Ramush Haradinaj? When will your coalition partner Hashim Thaci be responsible? When will your coalition partners like Nenad Chanka, like Sulejman Ugljanin, when will they respond? You're talking, giving yourself the right to talk to someone about coalition partners. So you killed yourself from tears, from moaning and from pay when this Kurti said he wouldn't take the Serbian list into power. There was nothing worse he could do to you than what he said, I'm not going to rule you, and you've been killed complaining about Europe, crying out loud and moaning that Kurti won't take you. You know, here's what you said the other day, Nedjo Jovanovic, he wasn't taken, he says, we're invited, so he'll come if he's not here, they're working on the call. And you seem to be working on the invitation, Mr. Markovic, but you don't have to accept every phone call, some of you can skip out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65923	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65924	Says the previous speaker, not every invitation has to be accepted, but one can skip. Here, finally in something to agree on. I personally had the chance to skip one of those rude calls that he didn't skip. It's about the year 2009 when he received an rude offer from Dragan Gilas, Belgrade Mayor at the time, and for him, the offer was obviously not rude and there was a difference between me and him. For me, that offer was very rude. I was happy to turn her down and even get out of the SRS then. He accepted the rude invitation, which was viewed in the participation of the management and supervisory boards of notified companies, public utility companies and public institutions, whose founder is the city of Belgrade. So they shared places in the boards of directors and supervisors, and they hung out well in that mandate, and they cooperated, and they were complemented, and everyone was happy, satisfied in their circle. The circle was characterized by Dragan Djilas and Nemanja Sarovic. I feel sorry for the chairman, that Vojislav Seselj is not present at the moment, to take the opportunity to ask him – is it true that he, as SRS president then, did not give consent, did not allow Nemanja Sarovic to join the coalition with Dragan Dilas, but he did it on his own. That's a very interesting question, I expect to get a once-in-a-lifetime answer to that question. When it comes to the finding that a previous speaker would want to criticize yellow thieves, he said, "What's stopping him from presidencies?" Here, what's stopping him? You've got yellow thieves, they're not formal in the DS, they've made one of their own, in fact he's with Gilas in the party now, this Bastac, here's every day we have new proof of what they did at the Milan Gale Muskatirovic Sports Centre in Old Town. Well, over a few million is about the loss of the minus and the debts made by this company, not really a company, but a public institution whose founder was the City Hall of Stari Grad. A few million, and these are the results of the city's budget inspection, so it's not anybody's flat-rate assessment. Why don't you criticize yellow thieves? They're the same yellow thieves, but in Old Town, they answer for some reason I don't know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65925	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65926	So, Mr. Markovic, this isn't the first time you've tried to raise your own ratings in the party you're currently in. You were once one of those young men that I, I say, supported, taught politically, and what little you know about politics, I'm sure there's a lot of my merit in it. But you can't teach everyone in your life, so of course I couldn't teach you, there are some parts about the feelings of morality that are implanted in the family, which are personal, and that's something that can't be affected. You, Mr. Markovic, have been extremely good and obedient and we have never had any objection to your work until a certain moment when you are relieved. You've never rebelled for anything, and if you already think that someone, I've never been a member of any board of directors or supervisors before, were your colleagues, your girlfriend, as I recall, your youth friends from the Vračar Municipal Committee, and these are all the decisions that were made at the city board sessions that were recorded. We can, you know it's being guarded and we can easily consider it, Mr. Markovic. However, I'm afraid you'd be uncomfortable in front of your current party colleagues. So, the problem is that you now inherit the ideology of the yellow company and that you view the boards of directors as political prey and you believe that this is for the capture of your party personnel, and in advance you reject every kind and possibility of control. Something similar you've done with congregation committees. You know, even with the yellows at one time, the parliamentary principle is that, for example, the Administrative Committee has a president from the main opposition party, until Tomislav Nikolic stole the mandate, until DS decided to form the SNS and then the terror began, and then the disrespect of the Constitution began, so that it would be possible for you from the SNS to keep your stolen mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65927	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65928	Thank you, Chairman. The morale of someone who openly co-operated in the coalition for years with Dragan Gilas, during the darkest period when Gilas was mayor of Belgrade. I will remind, not because of the previous speaker, that he is obviously not taking these suggestions and advice, not to say, not to accept, but to the citizens of Serbia. So it's a period that was marked by really big affairs. You remember the reshuffle affair of King Alexander's boulevard. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Why didn't you arrest him? He's under arrest. A city manager was arrested at the time. You remember the affair of buying and installing underground containers. It's a multimillion-dollar affair, it's damaged citizens of Belgrade, it's damaged the budget, but obviously it's not sacred to someone, it's sacred to me. You remember the "Pazl City" affair, remember the BusPlus affair, remember the Adi bridge affair, remember the affair of getting trams, buses. So, his entire mandate, the entire mandate of Dragan Gilas headed by Belgrade, was actually one big affair. And in much of it, Nemanja Sarovic was helping him, because he was then in power at that time. Today, as we speak at this time, in real time, Nemanja Sarovic participates in power in Old Town. The same thing that Gilas was working with Belgrade, Marko Bastic is working with Stari Grad, and Nemanja Sarovic is helping him. My question is, as much as he avoided giving an answer – what should happen and get out of the coalition with Mark Bastac in Old Town? No matter how many times you avoid the answer to that question, I'll repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65929	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65930	Mr. Markovic, you obviously have a selective memory. While I was head of the SRS parliamentary group in the City Assembly, some sessions lasted for over a month. Before that, Mr. Markovic, while other bosses were, for example, while Alexander Vukic was, had never held a session for more than two hours. Is it true or isn't it? Never for more than two hours, not even when it was the mayor's choice. Dragan Gilas has not entered the City Assembly for more than two years because I explained 20 reasons for his shift, the way he broke the law. Half of it he sweared, went out and never entered the Belgrade City Assembly for the next two years. Is that true? Yes, it is. The Big Brother affair, about using city infrastructure to record reality programs, who started it, Mr. Markovic? The Serbian Radical Party and myself personally, as president of the City Committee at the time. We have printed in 200,000 copies a special edition of "The Great Serbia", with Dragan Gilas, who has a third eye on the head, titled "The Big Brother" affair. When did you SNS criticise about that, Dragan Gilas? You're not. Is that why Dragan Gilas was responsible until today? It's not. Why not? Well, you chose him president of the basketball union, so you chose him. So remember all the affairs we've started. One of the biggest affairs is certainly funding the newspaper "Justice", your party list, in which many of your officials and their closest relatives have ownership rights. Over a million euros, Dragan Gilas gave only from the city's budget and public enterprises to the newspaper "Justice", while it was the main propaganda machine of the SNS. You know when they started funding? Since October 2008. So, the moment that some of them stole their mandates, they left... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65931	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65932	The first thing, the chairman, is that the previous speaker said about Alexander Vukic, while he was head of the SRS parliamentary group back then in the City Assembly. So Vukic resigned shortly after the town's parliament was established. I think that immediately in the first month after the session was established, you remember what kind of tension it was, so that Alimpic set up a constitutional session two months ahead, because then one political party was trying to convince another political party that it was necessary for the city's authority to be likened, so to speak, with the way the republican government was formed, however, it doesn't matter. So, Vucic resigned immediately after the city's parliament's constitution. So he was a very short head of the committee group, and in that sense, it's not at all relevant what you just said. The chairman, it is great that the previous speaker today, even today, is talking about the affairs of Dragan Gilas. If he didn't want to, could or dare in real time, at a time when these affairs were happening, here, it's good to at least talk about Big Brother and everything else today. I commend, great, keep it up, maybe we'll get to the other more important affairs of Dragan Gilas. When it comes to SNS then, the SNS was opposition in 2009, 2010, 2011. Every day, at the level of our city board of parties, at the level and other party bodies, we pointed to numerous affairs between Dragan Gilas and the Head of the City and City Administration Assembly, among other things, with your help, we just established this. But we didn't have the media, we did it on the ground. On the ground every day, in every place, in every settlement in Belgrade. He didn't hate us. We knew we didn't have the media. From the media we had a small space on a small radio called "Focus", you must know it. That's all we had from the media. No one in SNS was allowed to come to Study B, no one, not for a second. That's for sure, you don't have to check it out. But also make sure you don't take my word for it. Niko, the absolute ban was that someone from SNS anywhere, it was the most terrifying period of censorship and media darkness in Serbia. The term “spin” has just introduced Dragan Gilas into Serbia's informative sky, the term “spin”. I remember, I end up soon, chairing a characteristic example of spin, which was introduced just when Gilas was mayor. So there was news that the reconstruction of the Gazela Bridge and in all the information shows, on all TVs there was one and the same sentence, says – today it was released into the work of the Gazela Bridge, all six tapes were released into operation, etc. I then wondered why there was a need to emphasize - all six strips? So how many tapes are they gonna open, two, three, four, all six? But that one sentence went every time, on every TV. So spin is his product.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65933	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65934	Mr. Markovic, first of all, if you're talking about spins and who introduced spins, I think it was introduced by Beba Popovic, a gentleman whom Aleksandar Tijanic, former director of Serbian Radio-Television, branded and baptized as a lactated cockroach. At the same time, your political party's officials have fiercely criticised this gentleman, and he has always served all anti-Serbian regimes, both DOS regime and Milo Djukanovic regime, and I ask you, Mr Markovic, where is the respected Beba Popovic today? You know, as you don't know, there's one who drinks coffee with this Trivanka of yours, that latest doctor of science, drinks coffee all over town with her and advises her obviously. So he's a respected member of the Serbian society today, and that's exactly what your cancer wound is. So, all those you used to criticize, you were delighted to receive into your flock. I understand your obsession, Mr. Markovic, with the boards of directors and supervisors, and that's probably because you're a member, too, here's what the Management Board or the Supervisory Committee says, as far as the "Borba" news company is concerned, as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a shareholder. So you are a member of the Management Board, each month you receive compensation for it and hold a letter to a menu that I have never been a member of any of these boards of directors or supervisors. You know, you're one of those who has multiple functions. Next to you is a gentleman who has five or six, Aleksandar Martinovic. You know, you kill yourself from the story of how good it is in Serbia, you kill yourself from the story that the parliamentary salary is huge, and then when they ask you why you have six functions, you say – so I have to live on something. Now, that's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65935	The People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65936	He exposed me. You feel irony in my voice, Chairman. So, me or someone else at SNS performs more functions, so you've now spectacularly exposed it by looking at the Anti-Corruption Agency website, so it's no secret. Yes, I am a representative of state capital at the Press-Publishing Company "Borba". If you'd asked around and informed yourself, you'd understand what kind of problems this news publishing company is in right now and we're trying to do everything we can to get rid of this long-term company. But I have no intention of opening up to you in that sense, you've tended to call it some kind of shame anyway. I guess I should be ashamed of doing two functions right now. But my second function, and being on the Supervisory Board, is nothing dishonest, no crime, and it's no shame, because I didn't steal anything. At least the right to be resented by someone who, while serving as a MP at that time, lived in the Old Town, where he was also a committee member in the local assembly, executed, to say the change of residence in Vranje or somewhere, with the aim of charging travel expenses and thus to damage the congregation budget for not knowing how many millions. Well, isn't Nemanja Sarovic here respecting anything. A man lived in Old Town, Dorcol, if I'm not mistaken, was a councilman at that time in the City Hall of Stari Grad, and reported his stay in Vranj, so he wouldn't charge travel expenses. Well, please, this is outrageous.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65937	Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65938	This applause was good for you, I'd just like you to step it up for the next time, I think a speaker like Aleksandar Markovic absolutely deserves more. So, Mr. Markovic, I haven't said anything to capital here, but the question is, how can you at the same time be a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a National MP? That's the point. Imagine the MP representing the citizens of Serbia, to whom the citizens of Serbia transferred sovereignty and who is also a representative of the government. Your role is here to control the government. The ministers are beneath you, Mr. Markovic, and you would understand that if you understood something. I assume you're one of the young men I took to Vranje. Isn't it? I ran a lot of young people, trained them partyically, even though I remember studying at the time. Right? Well, you couldn't. Where have you studied before, Mr. Markovic? So, once again to repeat the advice given to you by the President of the Republic, tear people's diplomas while they're on time. Tear out your diplomas, rip out your master's work, rip out your doctor's dissertation until you get to the wallpaper. It took him three months to stop being after Sinishi Malo. Here, since Mr. Nejko Jovanovic came, not to mention something in his absence, we didn't arrive the other day, the pause interrupted us in our discussion, you told Mr. Nejko Jovanovic that no one had taken you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but that you were invited. Well, here, I'm a gentleman I'm giving you a chance to explain it a little bit better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65939	Right to replica, first MP Aleksandar Markovic, then Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65940	Well, the Anti-Corruption Agency has given a positive opinion that I can perform two functions and that story is over. If you have any problem with that, please contact the Anti-Corruption Agency. However, when a man asks – how can a man perform several functions at the same time, here, I also have a chairing one question for him. And how can a man live on two addresses at the same time? How can a man live at the same time on Dorcolo, in Old Town, and in Vranj? So you have to tell me where you really were. Were you at Dorcolo or were you in Vranj? Because I've been checked out that you've been to Dorcolo, because how else would you be a council member of the Old Town City City Assembly if you were in Vranje? So, to define that your story is complete and tell us just how much the travel expenses you charged were then, by falsely applying to live in Vranj, even though everyone knows you lived in Old Town. Beware, the chairman was not enough for him to pay the messenger of the people. You remember there were journals at the time. So he did not have enough journals for the work of the MP, so he had to fictitiously report his residence to Vranje even to make millions and millions of dinars. And now that man here is giving me a hard time about doing two functions. I really don't know what to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65941	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65942	First of all, I don't know what's funny, Mr. Arsic, your role is to protect the dignity of the National Assembly and prevent any nebuloses and lies that your party colleague Mr. Markovic has just said. Now, I heard from my colleague Sarovic while he was living in Vranj, and I guess he also led you to the activities that the SRS committee had, and he, as co-ordinator, was living in that town, which Mr Arsic, who is a witness of that time and great success that was achieved by such work on the ground while his colleague Sarovic lived, I repeat again, not at the fictitious address, but at the address that he was. Please don't say what our people would say, if you were to drag me by the tongue, if I were to start talking here right now about who lived where and how he lived, where and what he was charging for, because that wouldn't be the end of it. Therefore, you do not serve false and dishonest things. This raised the question of engagement not only for you but also for others who have a similar function, that they are also representatives of the government in a public enterprise, and that they receive compensation for it, and that they are MPs. And you're saying, that's what the Anti-Corruption Agency gave me for. What is this Agency, a scripture? Well, we've had so much trouble here as the MPs in the memos with them for some misunderstanding to explain why, from one car that cost, I don't know, so much and so much, now the MP has a newer one that costs 500 euros higher, which is regularly reported to them, not chasing these thieves and criminals who have put it all on the public eye, and you, as you've now embarked on fighting Dragan Gilas. You didn't mention why you didn't process him for stealing around this bridge that still bears his coloquial name where he stole over 200 million, and you're telling us some nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65943	Dear colleague Jovanovic, I don't know why you include me in this controversy, I've never... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Because money was being tampered with at the time. I never went with my colleague Sarovic to Vranje. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. ) No one, I only know, colleague Jovanovic, that another MP living in the territory of the municipality of Zemun, was also the co-ordinator for the municipality of Vranje or the Pcinj district, I cannot remember correctly, it is also called Slavisa Topalovic today, but that he did not change the place of residence or charge travel costs between Vranja and Belgrade. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65944	Article 27. I didn't ask you at all for your observations personally in response to my violation of the Rules of Procedure and let your flat-rate knowledge, but as far as this topic is concerned. So I was born in Kragujevac. I have been a member of the SRS for 28 years and its official is about that long, starting with the functions in the town of Kragujevac, the Shumadian district, I have been a folk MP since 1996. Tomislav Nikolic moved from Kragujevac in 1992, received an apartment from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for use and later an apartment from the Serbian state as vice-president of the Serbian government that he later bought. As he further gained capital, it is well known and he has now multiplied it to the famous tens of millions of euros. But what's interesting is that he's the personal guru of Veroljub Arsic, as well as you of some, and the one sitting on your left, still in line, the one who forced you to kidnap and steal the mandates of the SRS, the gentleman, and that he didn't see Kragujevac on the map, possibly if he ran and went to Bajcetin, where he didn't normally have any ar of land, and now he has a church of a few million euros, nothing man, literally nothing, charged the travel expenses from Kragujevac to Belgrade every day, so when one of them was probably a Martian, or one of the presidents of the Assembly, of these yellow concubines who had been, read from a pay phone booth, he stopped these costs. So, not that he didn't live, but he had a registered address, it seems to me, Svetozar Markovic 60 and some number in Belgrade, he used an apartment and this nice 60-70-square-square apartment given to him by the National Assembly, because he sought, godmio, prayed. Don't say such things then, and especially you, colleague Arsic, who runs the money of Tomislav Nikolic and as head of the SRS parliamentary group, I mean the party money, the 56 million-dollar SRS debt at Delta Bank, or Banke Intez, without the approval of the SRS, you know very well, so that we don't open that Pandora's box, you'd better shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65945	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, I really don't know why you are constantly implicating me in this discussion, but you have now implicated the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and have not been completely honest with your presentation. As you well know, Tomislav Nikolic was also being prosecuted at the time, that police had come to the attention of certain documentation, and that the prosecutor, while Tomislav Nikolic was still an opposition MP and a member of the SRS, rejected all the criminal charges filed as unfounded. You know that very well. There is a difference, because the place of residence of Tomislav Nikolic was then in Kragujevac, and a colleague you are trying to defend has never had a registered place of residence in Vranje. Never. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I want to. - Yes, you do. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65946	Now I'm going to do Article 32(2). So you in that place, in particular, are now misusing the function of vice presidents of the National Assembly and again saying things that are not true. Namely, Mr. Arsic, just as he lied in 2008, that he was something other than a construction technician, hiding from the SRS that somewhere in the mud, and today, it was later found out, this Becic knows, at which university Tomislav Nikolic acquired this calling of some engineering master, I don't know what, since Ljubisa is not in the hall, who wrote all these papers and helped him with the exams, which you also know very well, when every candidate for the National MP and for the President of the Republic and imagine what he asked me to do, I go to remove his credentials, call him, ask him – what are you interested to say – the MP. A woman in the administration of the town of Kragujevac wonders, I'm sorry, but I really can't put that occupation on. Then let me put what it is, says – in 2008, a construction technician, then a diploma appears, after a month, of some engineer master etc. So, it says right here, I don't even know what was the address of the apartment he bought, and he got it from the state, it's that so-called. A smart building where he was reported and don't make it up. As for the rejection, of course, it was stopped at the time, he covered his ears and shut up because he saw that the devil had taken the joke, aware of the fact that he was absolutely one day away from the town of Kragujevac, and that he had used the car of the Serbian Parliament for some time and that he was charging the costs. That's what a man's about. That's exactly what you've been listening to to steal the mandate of the SRA, which is what I'm talking about, what morality, what dignity and everything, because it's really beneath me and every human dignity. Since both our fellow citizens know him and I, I'd rather not talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65947	My colleague Jovanovic, I have not exercised any abuse of the rights of the Rules of Procedure, but I have exercised my right under Article 103(5). Rules of Procedure that I am obliged to answer whether or not I consider your objection to the Rules of Procedure to be correct. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I don't want to... That's what you should have said before you finished the discussion, now I can hardly hear you. I remind you that the procedure was conducted in 2002 and 2003 and that anything was waiting for Mr Nikolic to break the law in any way that the SRS would remain without the deputy president. So, what you're talking about right now, I think it's just the purpose of a pre-election campaign for the Kragujevac City Assembly, for the elections to be held in the spring. Do you want the National Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I do not want the National Assembly to declare itself. No, no, no, Thank you very much. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65948	Thank you, Chairman. Interesting how much my esteemed colleague Nemanja Sarovic has gained the experience of playing simultaneously with us MPs in this House, mostly with me and with counterpart Aco Markovic. I really won't spoil his experience, given that he's quite living up to it, and at least I have a duty to my colleague Sarovic to answer the questions he personally asks. I have an obligation to the citizens, and I have no obligation to him. What is important because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is to say the facts, and the facts are the following – the Socialist Party of Serbia has never taken it, nor will it take it, as the SPS did in 1998, when we were together in the government, and it is also the fact that the SNS, as a superior party on the political scene of Serbia, has at one point assessed to call the SPS into power and share responsibility for the exercise of power. The Socialist Party of Serbia has responded more than it has, I can say freely successfully, given the fact that by participating in this government, we have achieved results that no government has achieved so far. At the head of the country's presidency, in diplomacy and international field, Serbia has achieved results, also worthy of attention thanks to Ivica Dacic's diplomatic efforts as foreign minister, reminders for the sake of not being a stereotyped story, we are now in a position that less than half of the UN member states have withdrawn recognition towards Kosovo. Enough of these facts tell what he's doing, how he's doing the SPS, and that's what the citizens see and recognize, and hopefully he'll verify it in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65949	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65950	Mr. Jovanovic, it is your free choice to go to the government and you say that no one has taken you, called you, but the problem is that you, as you say, are working on the call but you answer every call. The difference between your party and the SRS is that we don't have such a strong stomach, we can't really go with everyone, we've been in the government of the Unity of the Republic of Serbia for two and a half years, and then we refused to enter DOS's transitional government, and you didn't mind that either. You are also in 2000, after the October Bulldozer of the Revolution, instead of having the courage to tell the citizens of Serbia who they are and what they are from DOS, it was important for you to be ministers, and three more months, another three months. And you were until around January 15th, as I recall at the end of December there were elections and around January 15th the government was formed. You also had the stomach to be a minority partner, namely to support the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica, and you also supported Mirko Cvetkovic, also supported Boris Tadic. All the evils that have happened to Serbia you have supported and you say - we have come to share responsibility. How do you share it? Where's your responsibility? Who answered? When your coalition partners say -- those who robbed Serbia, so you share responsibility, why don't you raise your hand to say -- did we participate in everything in order, supported all regimes in order? Why? Well, call us. Skip some calls, Mr. Jovanovic. That's the point. Is your ideology a power at all costs and power with each or do you still remember some programming principles of the SPS? When pensions increase, you're here, taking credit. After, when it's said, the state has come to ruin, you say you'll take over again, but you take credit, not responsibility. Take one and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65951	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65952	I thank you, Chairman. Well, when criticism is just for criticism, the question of whether to answer such criticism at all, but since some false things have been made, then it must be something to comment on. First of all, the SPS, a colleague of Sarovic and so well-known, is a state-of-the-art party in any government where it has participated, has never done anything through its representatives that would be contrary to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When the road was to be routed to the EU, starting in 2008, we were there, unlike other opposition parties. I mean then and now. When Serbia's harsh criminal bombing occurred, the SPS raised the country from the ashes, and then it experienced a terrible link of all those who promised citizens towers and cities, and there was nothing. The Socialist Party of Serbia has faced a number of hardships, with various trials and challenges it has been going through and has never been in the view that anyone should individually be held accountable to be appalled. All those who have wronged the law in any way should answer, just say who they are. The Socialist Party of Serbia as a party has never come out, has never strayed from a path that implies the path of Serbia's prosperity and then and now. Let me just point out to any fact that our party has in any way devalued anything that implies something that is contrary to the interests of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65953	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65954	Mr Jovanovic, your participation in each government of the Republic of Serbia does not make you a state-of-the-art party. You are the party responsible for destroying institutions in the Republic of Serbia. You're responsible for the lack of a Constitutional Court. You're responsible for being an ugly university. You are responsible for being either devastated institutions or completely broken institutions in Serbia. You're asking what you did right? Well, you're nothing. You boast that you have, as you say, routed Serbia to the EU. Is that something you're boasting about? You've trased him, SPS? When? Until 2000. Did you do it then or something later? As you've done well, it also shows the situation where we are and the place where we are 20 years later. The Socialists have routed to the EU, and the only thing you have in mind is, unfortunately, the Balkan Union. To go into integration with Albania, with the so-called Northern Macedonia and others. This is where the president of Macedonia openly told you, he came to Belgrade, stood next to the President of the Republic and said - for us, Kosovo is an independent state and only as such can he go to the Balkan Union. We can't hear the answer. There's no answer. Therefore, as you praised Boris Tadic, today you praise Alexander Vukic with the same grumble. When he gets angry and says don't brag enough, then here for the next three days in the National Assembly, by task, you have to throw yourself in the fire and allegedly defend him. There's no principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65955	You're bringing the end, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65956	Show me what is principled by the Socialists through power with Boris Tadic and power with Aleksandra Vukic? Find a principle and say it?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65957	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65958	I don't think I'm going to answer the line anymore, given that everything that respects the SPS has absolutely nothing to do with facts or truth. The Socialist Party of Serbia was and remained, I repeat, a state-run party. The principles managed by the SPS are a struggle for citizens' interests and that is not populism. It's something that the SPS put into its program, and that's how it realized it. A question arises for a respected colleague, Sarovic, when he was so anatemised by the SPS, so what was the SRS in the government with the SPS? Which is why we were together in the government when the SPS is absolutely nothing, when the SPS is something that is satanic or I don't know how else to characterize, at least that's how it comes from the words of the esteemed Mr. Sarovic. That we've traveled the path is true. We have started to travel our way to the EU, and it is obvious that we are very different here and we will never have similarities. As far as the Balkan Union is concerned, not only is it a good move, it is not only something that involves stability in the region, it is not only something that is good for Serbia, it is good for all those in this region, the Balkan territory region allows everything we do not have so far – free circulation of goods, free circulation of people, economic integration, and given that Serbia is the headquarters of peace in the Balkans, so Serbia gets a lot. Whoever doesn't understand it, it's hard to educate him, it's hard to teach someone what they don't want to understand or not understand, and I really don't want to do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65959	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65960	Mr. Jovanovic, you're trying to tell me now, to honor that I said that you're some kind of satanic party or I don't know what, and I didn't mention anything like that and you're doing it very ignorantly. You're trying to bend my words, but very ignorant. I, when I bring criticism to the SPS or you personally as her representative, do it in principle and, if you notice, Mr Jovanovic, I do not do it with hatred. I don't hate you or the others sitting around you. That nervous reaction of yours only tells me I'm right. Why, Mr. Jovanovic, withdraw from this discussion if you dominate. You say you should educate someone. Here, you dominate this debate. All the arguments are on your side, your ratings are growing, you are delighted by the citizens of Serbia. If that's the case, you'll move on, and if it isn't, then you'll back off. That's the point. When someone tells you the truth, when he tells you openly, when he tells you Serbian as specifically as possible, you have this hysterical reaction – shut him up, punish him, do not let him speak! That's how you experience the National Assembly and that's how you see parliamentary democracy. You might prefer it if I came to the National Assembly this morning, instead of coming to the National Assembly, with that Tanya Fajon meeting somewhere for coffee or breakfast, and she brought you by the ear to talk to me. Then you'd be much nicer to me, Mr. Jovanovic, and there wouldn't be those hard words, there wouldn't be that ugly thing. Then you'd be much more condescending...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65961	Thank you, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65962	Then you'd be smiling, irritated, and you'd try to convince yourself and her that you're a real European. Be who you are... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65963	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65964	Thank you, esteemed prescribing. Dear ministers with associates, first of all I have to say that the proposal for an agency employment law is a system-based and brand-new law. It is also significant, not only in terms of harmonisation and harmonisation with European legislation, with the 181 Convention of the International Labour Organisation with the EU Directive, but also in how significant it is as a new system law, because precise, clear, decadently, determines the work of employment agencies, determines the position of the employer, determines the position of workers appointed through the employment agency to the employer. Why is this law also significant, and how does it show that this government, SNS and coalition partners who are participating in government really care about the position and status of workers? This law provides that workers employed by an agency in the case of an employer shall conclude their contracts on a fixed or indefinite basis, in accordance with the Labour Act. What does that mean? This means greater and better protection of such a worker, especially when it comes to paying off his earnings, because the payout of his earnings is agreed with a comparable worker who works with the employer, and as it affects the improvement of the standard of living of such a worker, ensuring his safety and protection at work, ensuring the protection of mothers and mothers who are breast-feeding, or breast-feeding, is guaranteed the right to use the annual leave, ensuring that he is entitled to collect earnings during overtime, during working hours, during working nights, etc. When it comes to Article 4 of the Law, I must stress that it refers to a head that provides for the working conditions of the Agency. So far, there have been no precise and clear conditions for the establishment of employment agencies. It's a novelty. It is a great advantage, because these conditions allow work-law security, primarily employees. Serbia's advanced party is in the interest of keeping as many workers employed as possible, but it is also in the interest that each worker is adequately protected, or protected in accordance with the Labour Law, whether he works on a specific or indefinite basis. Article 4 The draft law to which the amendment was submitted, of course I agree with the Government's proposal that the amendment should not be accepted, contains anti-corruption elements. The fight against corruption is one of the basic issues of fighting SNS and all these years, since 2012, we have been working in all segments of society to ensure that corruption is reduced to the least possible. Why is this member of the law anti-corruption? He predicts that a natural person or entrepreneur who establishes a employment agency cannot be a person convicted by a judicial verdict for crimes in the field of work, for criminal acts of taking and giving bribes, for criminal acts of embezzlement and, of course, on the condition that he is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for at least six months. Also, this member of the law foresees that if the employment agency's permission does not meet all the prescribed conditions, it can be taken away, so it can be withdrawn by the work permit, of course that the employment agency also ceases its work, and that withdrawal of the licence can take three years. Therefore, I want to commend this law. I would like to commend him above all from the aspect of determining the working-law status of workers and their translation from those contracts on occasional and temporary jobs, when they were not absolutely visible in contracts that are in accordance with the Labour Act, which are contracts for a certain and indefinite period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65965	What replica? You have no right to a replica. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65966	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the amendments that I must say, mostly, are being deleted, as well as this one, it is generally the opinion that this bill should not actually exist. It is entirely legitimate for Members of Parliament to submit such amendments. However, what I want to say, the representatives of the promoters, ministers, have also shown us in principle the important reasons for the adoption of the Agency Employment Act. The aim is to prevent unfair competition and protect employees. This area is not regulated by other laws and therefore a new law needs to be passed, and here we are talking about a proposal for a new law. If the Assembly does not adopt it, it will not in fact be possible to establish order among agencies and other employers who earn income for labour concessions and cannot fully protect the rights of posted employees they achieve on the basis of work. Equal treatment of the agency employee and employee of the employer in terms of earnings, working hours, vacation rights, labour protection, etc. is required. The need to pass this law is also seen in the number of registered agencies, which are currently over 120 in our country. Employees and agencies shall conclude either a contract on temporary and occasional transactions, or a contract on work for a specified period of time, and for the purposes of working with other legal persons. They are often discriminated against by persons employed by that employer, such as the situation where they do not have the right to stay or rest. It also happens that their earnings in more cases are lower than minimum earnings. Just to regulate these questions, I think this law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65967	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65968	You and Martinovic are also surprised that I am asking for a replica of, there is currently no of our authorised representative, and colleague Vukojić spoke with her arguments, misreading the amendment that Jojic submitted. But it doesn't matter. I'm going to keep talking about his amendment, and I'm going to keep talking about mine, because it's about the continuation of my opening presentation today. Here in this article of the Law, the conditions under which the agency will now have to work, the one that rents people, or steals other people's work, gives in to workers, and they won't, will only remain a letter on paper, respected all of what you say will respect, be sure of that. This employee will be able to be assigned to another company, then he is not when he goes to the workplace, because the agency gives him up, originally employed there, at any time under this law, the employer may say that the need for this employee profile has ceased. Now, what do we come up with? The law stipulates that in this case, the employment agency needs all these cash fees to pay the worker, because it is an intermediary in his employment if it comes to the "pech", with the employer where she referred him. You are now here with this article, which I have submitted to the amendment, prescribed the conditions for passing exams, about the office, about the number of employees, but nowhere is the possibility of that worker being defiled, because in that first member, which was mentioned just over an hour ago, it is said that these are the acts needed to establish that agency. Then we'll get into a much worse situation, because this is about the lives of people and those who work through the agencies that you praise, a much worse situation than with tourists. You have changed the Travel Agency Act to ensure that tourists are provided with insurance policies if they go through a failing agency, which is experiencing absolute bankruptcy and that steals money from these travellers for advance payment arrangements. And here where you direct people, martyrs who work for a lousy salary, for a minimumer, and mostly hard jobs by factories or some jobs that are poorly paid, to work through agencies, you don't give them any security. That employer, where you sent that worker, that martyr to work through the agency in one day, can because of his debt to the trustees fail, to block his account. Right, colleague Arsic? Then he doesn't have the funds anymore. How could that worker who went there know that and is still struggling and not yet have all these privileges that he would have had if he had been constantly working through the National Employment Service? You say: He shall have the right to be sick, to be paid leave. He does not have the same status as the one employed by the competition, who is employed through the National Employment Service. He can't take credit at any bank. He will work both for years and years in "Leonija", in "Fiat", with Milanovic in "Simens", through the agency to rent, to point to one place, another place. The young couple, God looked at them, got children or twins, and there are such cases, thank God, more and more in Serbia among young people, no apartment, no wife has no job, he works through the agency for a poor one, and they can't go to the bank, compete, buy an apartment. And this is where you talk - we will improve the conditions for young people to compete. You're hypocritical and you're defending something that's indefensible. Listen to what the ordinary worker says and what all the criticisms were from the leading unions in Serbia on the proposal and draft of this law. You've changed something cosmetically, but you know, the conclusion is one of the experts in the field of employee rights, labour law, economics and unions, that this law is designed to protect large capital, and all of course by order of the IMF, because it suits them to make such fluctuations work and make it unstable so that they can further blackmail and keep people in latent fear of what their future will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65969	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jeftović Vukojičić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vukadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65970	My amendment is legal-technical and does not change anything in the essence of this law, and I would therefore only support the recent discussion and amendments of counterpart Natasha Jovanovic. I think those remarks that were heard on the proposal of this agency employment law are actually relevant. It's nice to have order here, but it's a course, a course, a line where that order wants to introduce a problem. It is also discriminatory and agreeable to this law with the Labour Act, and this law itself is repressive and is quite restrictive towards employees and it is known, more or less and was in professional circles when this Labour Act was passed. So, as I would say, otherwise, the very limited rights of employees under the Labour Act are now further reduced by this Agency Employment Act. It's ugly to say, but it really comes down to it about renting people on the lease. It's kind of the essence of this law, regardless of all the nice words and phrases we hear. It is interesting, however, that as a kind of experiment, I have submitted this amendment, which does not essentially change anything, only the term temporary employment agency, in line with the definition from the very beginning of this law, is changed by the word agencies. And everywhere in the text of the bill it was implemented. Here in Article 5, it wasn't done in the last, in the fifth position it wasn't done. But what's the point? The point is that the ministry rejects the amendment, although it is, I say, extremely pure of style-language nature, it would not change anything, nothing would endanger it. But the point is that virtually no amendment proposed by anyone in the opposition, even when it doesn't change anything essentially, can go through. I wanted to demonstrate it more. But, unfortunately, I thought Mr. Djordjevic would be sitting here, not Mr. Ruzic, who is neither in charge of this matter, nor is he proposing this law. It is simply unusual that Mr. Djordjevic, who literally camps here more than most MPs, is always there, which is commendable, in front of the government, sitting and on the agenda of laws that have nothing to do with his ministry, it is interesting that now that the important and sensitive law from his work is on the agenda, he is not here today, but Mr. Ruzic, who, I say, does not make any sense to ask him about this amendment, or even this law, because he is not in charge of it, and especially does not know why any amendments have been rejected. So, in general, the whole proposal is discriminatory. I would not repeat what some colleagues have already said here by criticising it, but it is indicative and I draw attention to it, that not even a purely language legal-technical term, or amendment, can it pass, because it is more viewed, it seems, who suggests, but what is in the amendment. With another expression of regret that Minister Djordjevic is not among us this time. I'm saying, he's got one, and he sits there all the time, and they're on the agenda of laws that have nothing to do with his ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65971	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65972	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is labour inspection controlling the fulfillment of the conditions. Now, the previous speaker forgot that during their government, or the authorities of his mentors, there was no need for a labour inspection at all. In their time, it would be called labor inspection, unemployment inspection. The companies have been sold, workers lustrated, fired, paid for, jobs, dignity. Imagine how they felt when they came home, how they could raise children when they were out of work, no pay, no insurance, no nothing, what kind of example they were to their children. Now, I think that neither China nor the United States nor the most powerful industrial countries could quickly employ what they fired in a few years. But it didn't matter that the workers were fired, that the factories were sold, the capital carried out, bought yachts, etc., it was important to investigate the public opinion of whether you were satisfied with your life and then charge millions of dollars by questioning the public opinion that unemployed, fired people were saying whether they were satisfied with their lives. Of course not. Over the past few years, hundreds of thousands have been employed. The average wages in their time were rare. In manufacturing to work and get paid, they had a rarity. It was difficult to find in Serbia. Today, hundreds of thousands of people in the public sector are employed, but in production, in the processing industry. GDP growth and exports, pay growth, from 320 euros to 500, a minimum of 161 euros to 250. That's 50% salary growth. To take an example of Croatia, Croatia now has an average salary of 800 euros, but in 2012, they had 720 euros. Croatia's salary growth is 10% in seven years. Serbia came up with an average salary of 328 euros in 2012, and now it is 500 euros. That's 50% growth. If we found an average salary of 700 euros in Croatia, it would be 1,050 euros with a 50% growth in Serbia today. This shows how much more dynamic development is in Serbia and how much pay is growing faster, thanks to people who are employed in production and today they can be satisfied with their lives, whether they get lucky or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65973	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65974	Thank you. Of course I fully agree with the Government's opinion that the amendment should not be accepted, because this Article 5 too. The proposal for a law on agency employment is in fact a continuation of the conditions for the Agency's work. It is very important that labour inspection within the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs examines all the conditions for the Agency's work. Why does it matter? Because that way, through the examination of these conditions, workers will be protected. What else is being predicted by this member of the law? This is the necessity of a professional examination for the work that the agency must have, or must place an authorised person in the employee employment agency in order to obtain at all the permission to work by the ministry and to start working. I would also like to stress that we, the Government, the SNS and our president, and that we care about greater employment and greater and better legal security of workers. Serbia is a working and building country. Aleksandar Vucic is the president of a country that works day and night on all possible plans in the interests of Serbia and in the interest of a better, safer and more certain future for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. My colleague Marijan Risticevic mentioned an increase in salary, and I will mention an increase in pensions. Pensions at the time of the yellow tycoon company, the average, were 190 euros, and they are now 235 euros, and these pensions are real, because inflation unlike the yellow tycoon company period is no longer double-digit, but single-digit. I must also point out that, through the adoption of such laws, the SNS cares about the protection of every worker, unlike Dragan Djilas and his family - Tadic, Jeremic, Obradovic, etc., who in February of this year beat the workers of "City Cleanliness" in the Terrazian Tunnel who cleaned the garbage after those walks, "1 out of 5 million", which remained behind. That's embarrassing. That's inadmissible. That's immoral. It is the policy of Dragan Gilas and these different variants of the yellow tycoon company, the den that would make him rich on the coat of arms of the people and put money in his own pockets, as Dragan Gilas did, kidnapping 619m euros at the time he exercised power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65975	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65976	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendment to the SRS refers to the proposal of the Agency's Employment Act to Article 6 where we asked for its erasure, and with the reason that this form of employment is totally unacceptable and contrary to the rights of workers. Employment through agencies is inappropriate and the law proposed is discriminatory. All these follow-up laws with the 2020 budget are amendments and additions, and this is a whole new law. In this proposal, the law mentions some terms of the labour law of the employed, as well as the employer of the user. The rights of both workers are equalized. It's all wrapped up nicely here. However, the issue remains open – what does the employer, or the user, in this case, gain in terms of, say, the quality of human resources? And here's where you pay for the belief of a passed professional exam. The proposal did not directly define which inspection would be supervised. We have a work inspection or administrative inspection. They're going to repeat one more principled attitude of the SRS. We are absolutely against this kind of employment, because it usually arrests non-professional and predominantly party people. It is expected that a large number of party sympathisers will be additionally employed in the public sector, as a law on the abolition of the Law on the ban on employment in the public sector is being drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65977	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65978	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with the argument, or the Government's view, that the amendment should not be accepted and I believe that Article 6 of the law must exist in the law, because it makes it clear that the Ministry of Labour is in charge of granting the Agency a work permit. It is also precisely regulated by this law which are the conditions that the agency needs to meet in order to obtain a work permit, as well as the time duration of the agency's work permit, which is five years. Also, a month before the permit expires, the Agency must apply for a renewal. What is still very important is that the ministry keeps records of the information contained by the agency, i.e. it has absolutely information about all employees through the agency. In fact, I believe that this law lays down the conditions for the work of an agency which provides equal conditions for work and employees through agencies that are subject to the employer, but also directly employed by the user’s employer, which will certainly prevent unfair competition, and most importantly, all employees will be protected. Given that over the agency 2% of the population is engaged, I believe that one hundred thousand employees are this way and how protected and, not only one hundred thousand employees at this time, but all workers who will eventually conclude a contract with the agency. Also, by adopting this law, we will prevent the abuse of workers' rights, which we had the opportunity to see, until the Agency's Employment Act was proposed by the government, because they were denied the rights and the use of annual holidays, as well as the right to leave work due to illness, as well as other rights. In this I see the necessity of adopting the bill, because we will regulate the work of agencies, since so far it has been present on the labour market for many years, and that its work plan has not been regulated, and what is most important, by adopting this bill, we will prevent the work from going black and directly affecting the increase in the number of employees, because workers will become visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65979	The People's MP Zoran Despotovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65980	I would agree with my colleague that after this term, the agency will receive her and by no chance report her, as is happening, to, say, the agencies in Serbia as many as there are, that the worker is employed, working 12 hours and not registered. Let's say one of the agencies, among other things, is the "Protect Max" which uses, what the colleague said, abuses the right of workers. It's true that he abuses the rights of a worker, but he doesn't report them. That is why the SRS has made it clear that it is against such and similar agencies that there are over 150 in Serbia, and there is no accurate number of them. So, dear colleague, I'm sorry that you either know or do not want to admit that these agencies abuse the rights of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65981	Right to the replica of the People's MP Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65982	Dear Chairman, in order not to think what would happen if we were to adopt this bill, which we are discussing today in particular, and I would just point out that the current draft of the law has regulated a criminal liability and that, in the focus of this proposal, it is an absolute protection of the rights of all workers, as I said, and of those workers who have now signed a contract with the agency on a certain or indefinite basis, and it has also absolutely protected all other workers who may be engaged through the agency in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65983	Right on the replica, MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65984	I'm asking a question - what's the matter so far? Why didn't it respond in time to, say, 120 workers or 20 workers so only five were reported? Why hasn't he reacted so far? Tomorrow when the agency puts the key in the lock, what happens after that? What's going to happen to those workers? Who will then pay them pension and disability insurance and personal income? In this case they are the only ones working on black, probably in the night hours, and after noon the four-to-five workers who tomorrow if the inspection comes are controlling them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65985	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65986	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike all these accompanying laws, which are with the 2020 budget, which have just passed, this is one brand-new law of forty members or to be exact forty-one. Ladies and gentlemen, all this about agencies and agency employment reminds me very much of a case from our recent political practice when the yellow ones, those who carried out the economic genocide of Serbia, invented the institute so-called. An economic ambassador, you remember well, when they sent a hundred of their deputies to a hundred countries of the world, so to speak. economic ignorance because their work effect was more than catastrophic. The agencies are a European invention that has moved across the yellows to our political climate, and the progressive regime has accepted them by hand. Our country and its administration are constantly building something up. Upgrade is necessary, but not always necessary. It's not always the solution to the upgrade. I mean, our country, that's what I'm saying. The administration doesn't develop, it doesn't grow stronger, it doesn't go to the depths, it's getting dirty. It's not an impression, it's a finding. The SRS attitude towards agencies and this type of employment is known to everyone. We are against this kind of employment and we find it inappropriate and therefore we find this law discriminatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65987	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65988	I'm reporting for the amendment. So, I agree, as I said, with this being a dubious law, that this is the law that is, firstly, the most serious in terms of the consequences of some of the others that we have had here these days on the agenda and that listening to the representatives of the ruling majority talk about it is as an epochal civil fluid, as something that promotes the rights of employees, as something that puts us in line, I don't know, civilized societies. The trouble is that it's about as true as it was that in one society, let's say there's a practice of slavery, but it's messy, someone says -- let's sort out these slave relations and then present it as progress, as a civilizational liquid. The trouble is that there really is a bad reality and chaos in the work of these agencies and in the position of employees in this way, but we are only legalising this law with some cosmetic improvements in their position rather than abandoning this practice. It's quite clear, it is part of a global, or global trend, but we don't have to accept every bad world trend to hurry up with its implementation with us. It is that it is becoming less and less undefined, that even hiring on a particular one is no longer popular enough, but we literally have this practice of renting workers, or renting people on a lease. It's the essence of, my dear colleagues and the citizens you're looking at by accident. The trouble is, and I end up being here, I say, every thing is like an epochal civilizational and progressive flow, even those we've dealt with in the afternoon and yesterday when we have several amendments and additions to laws that actually have only a few words and sentences and which are being delayed essentially when it comes to the introduction of salaries, i.e. public sector employees for the third, fourth, fifth time for the fact of this authority, and the second or third time since Mr. Ruzic is the minister, we simply extend the deadline for the introduction of payment classes, which is a sign of certain impotence and the weaknesses of the authorities to deal with it even though she promised citizens and us MPs, how much last year was Mr. Ruzic, and the rich and international institutions of some. It is delayed and then followed by discussions consisting of praises, from what I would say, apotheosis and anthem about the wise policy of government. You can say that -- that power had results, it's a good highway, it's good this and that, right here we've failed and we're moving on. But for days we've been listening to praises even about something that's a direct failure or weakness or powerlessness to introduce those pay classes. And so it is with this Employment Agency Act, where this chaos that exists in the labour market, and this ugly practice is put into some legal form, in some legal framework, but on one course that is, I don't even know how to call it without being too harsh a word, let's keep this thing with workers, or working on the licking. And it really can't get the support of me, and others, I'd say, an MP should, who thinks for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65989	Comrade Vukadinovic, I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. (Jorge Vukadinović: Me? Yes, you. People's MPs think for themselves. Is he all right? According to the amendment, the People's MP Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65990	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, with fellow workers, respected colleagues, the previous speaker said this was a dubious law, and we had to bring a lot of laws to get the country out of the dubiosis where you left it, in which these coalition partners of yours, who keep trying to fool us that they didn't do power, that they didn't fire 500,000 workers through robbery privatisations, that unemployment wasn't 25%, and through the fabrication of the affair, they're constantly trying to hide the fact that it was their policy towards workers, according to the economy, according to the position of Serbia in the world, where when you didn't know what you were going to do, you're going to run around Croatia to apologize for everything and everything, where Serbia was on its knees, where the "martian pogrom" is reacting with half a statement, where the president tells us what the army and you'll now tell us that we live in a slave society. Are you aware of what you said? We talk and we sing hymns. Let me tell you one sentence, we will not withdraw from that field, today the president of Serbia in Sapac, at the opening of the works of the highway section and the fast traffic station of Ruma-Sabac-Loznica, said - I am happy and proud of Serbia, we have chosen to work and do a lot. Now, let me read you some information that your coalition partners have never had a chance to tell the citizens of Serbia. For example, the share, and to the joy of the Sword, Srema, Vojvodina, western Serbia, is in three shares of Ruma-Shabac 21.14km, and goes over the Sava km and 327m, and then the fast traffic Shabac-Loznica 54.8km. And now you're going to analyze whether it's good, if it's somewhere away from somewhere, if it's closer. You know when the farthest highway is from you? When he's gone. It was the farthest time, and that was until 2012, then all of us were somehow on the highway from our municipalities. A contract for the Moravia Corridor was signed today. The idea of a road passing through the most fertile valleys of South and West Morava, as old as the state of Serbia and on that section, of 112.3km long, will have a section of Pojate-Kruševac 27.83km, Kruševac-Adrani 58.88km, Adrani-Mrčajevci-Preljina 30.66km. The Moravia Corridor will connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and they will form the powerful wings of Serbia's economic recovery. We have a functional, and we will have in the next period and the first flights from the airport "Ladjevci", to the King, and from the airport "Morava", to Cačka, and we are on our way to have the same in recent times and with the airport "Ponikva", at Užica, that our people have the opportunity to strengthen the economy first, that our people have the opportunity to fly from their cities to work, to visit their relatives, to go on some trips where they will learn something more, not just to fly Vuk Jeremic, your Vuk Jeremic. He spent more in the air than some kind of bird for his life. Let's move on, to read, as you say, an anthem in a slave company. The beginning of works on the Preljina-Požega section 30.9km, of great importance for the Zlatibor County, and we also have the completion of the project documentation, were, more specifically, representatives of the ministries where preparations are being made and for the Preljin-Cotroman section about 60km, so according to Republika Srpska, BiH, we will bring that part of Serbia together. So we cross Serbia on the highways. Would you like some more anthem? In the coming days, a share of the Surcin-Obrenovac road will be opened on Corridor 11. The 17.6km will make the highway "Milos Veliki" even bigger. What's interesting is that this fast traffic and the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica highway, it's 77km long, costs 467.5m euros, and that's, you notice, less than the 619 Gilas million euros. All these shares we've launched cost less than 619 Gilas millions of euros. When you run here and run for his politics, never forget that they had the right to build these highways. No one was defending them. They had the right to hire people, they had the right, as Alexander Vukic did, to lower unemployment in Serbia below 10% with his policy. Let's move on, we'll go to the unemployment level in the EU 7%, 8%. We have the largest inflow of foreign direct investment in Serbia, bigger than all other Western Balkan countries combined. What did Boskov and Gilas fan say, more specifically, that love is mutual, Kurti? He's afraid of the Serb aggressive economy. If Alexander Vukic is so bad that the Albanians hate him so much, why are they so afraid of him? Why are they afraid of the Serbian economy? Why are you attacking our dedicated industry? What kind of interest is that? Is there anything you can be parliamentary about when it comes to some national interest in Serbia? We have such a history of the dedicated industry, because we need to bring it back. Some competing companies showed up, and then Marinika will spill my love for Serbia. You know, she loves Marinika Serbia, but she loves Serbia on her knees. Serbia's up. The fact that you want to shoot Serbia in the knees through the fabrication of fake affairs, the only factory you've opened, it's a dedicated affair factory for the destruction of Serbia. It's the only factory you've opened, V.D. The director's a marine at the moment, I don't know how long it'll be. You've closed everything else. You left more katans in Serbia than there are on the bridges of love in Paris. It's just that there were people out there making love, and here the tycoons were telling each other love by putting a lock on the factory and the workers at home. Then what? No workers, so no problem, let's deal with our pockets, let's deal with how I'm going to make 619m euros in government, let's deal with telling me Croats I'm beautiful, and I'll tell them in return, sorry Serbs are guilty of everything. I should be ashamed of you for saying that we live in a slave company, and I will tell you once again, to read to you what Alexander Vukic said today in Sapac at the opening of the highway and the fast traffic station Ruma-Shabac-Loznica - I am happy and proud of Serbia, we chose to work and do a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65991	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65993	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law on agency employment. Article 8 is one of the members who has been regulated by the Agency for Temporary Employment, more specifically Article 8 refers to the Agency’s work permit and when the authorisation ceases to apply. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing to delete this member. During the debate in principle, our position on the adoption of such a bill is clear, which is that this law will not bring any improvement to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the process of employment and the creation of an environment that would be desirable for life, especially for the lives of young and middle-aged people. I especially point out these categories because they are mainly people who are in full strength, who are leaving Serbia mass. The most common reason for their departure is that they feel humiliated here and that employers in Serbia who respect laws are rare. So every day at bus stations and airports, you can see a lot of people with suitcases in their hands and a one-way ticket. Young people are sent by parents, and middle-aged family members, who stay with the hope of joining them in the near future. The entire families leave mass because the conditions of work and life in Serbia are at a very bad level and they do not need agencies to leave at all. There have been controversial cases of temporary engagement of our people across borders abroad, but the need for this is getting smaller, because our people are hardworking workers, who are largely respected by their employers everywhere in the world, and above all satisfied with the profit they receive for their work. This should be considered by the representatives of the government in Serbia, as they themselves boasted that they were successful, without looking the truth into their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65994	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65995	The proposal changes and complementarity of the law can be widely interpreted as joining Serbia's policy of globalism. In globalism there is a form, the essence is completely avoided, the form is, among other things, seen and so on. protect the rights of employees or the rights of citizens. It is one formality that should be purely served as dust to be thrown in the eyes, in this case, to the citizens of Serbia. In this law, you propose something prescribed by European law that should regulate the relationship between an employee and an agency. There are no rights, no protection of rights, in principle, that the Agency should pay and that the Agency should take account, etc. The key question is what kind of wages are employed, i.e. the daily work. That's the essential question. The law does not protect an employee when it comes to the minimum labour price, when it comes to rights, but in full respect of the words of law. We are proposing Serbian radicals to this Article 9th Amendment and Supplement, and this amendment and supplement is essential, where rights are protected and those who suffer and those who have possible interruptions, which have been accepted on a specific or indefinite basis, and all rights arising from the establishment of a working relationship. It's a fundamental amendment to the SRS. And what do you care? You will be commended by every investor from abroad and say that this is great, that this is in line with the policy that is being led in Europe and that these are world trends. Well, of course, you will always be proud to point out that you are following European trends when it comes to protecting the rights of workers, and in essence his rights are not protected, but a mediator has been introduced between him and the employer, and the employer responds that he has no problems with the workers. So where does the capital suffer from labour rights? Where does capital suffer something called protecting those rights?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65996	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65997	This is a confirmation of what I just said, which is that only form is represented. In this article 10, you provide for legislation to specify the relationship between workers and employers for those engaged in EU countries. You explain that this article will take effect when Serbia is a full member of the EU. Is there any greater absurdity than this? There isn't. What is this law that contains not one provision but one member? If there were a single sentence in this sense, it would be severe irony, you wouldn't be able to believe it. But you are putting a member who regulates the rights of an employee who is employed in an EU member country, but is in effect when Serbia becomes a full-fledged EU member. Well, it can't, it's such a contradiction that man can't believe it happens to the government. Well, when you prescribe, gentlemen, those laws, when you want to be blind followers of this globalism, have at least a little style, have at least a little honor, at least a little pride and spite of that Serb who exists in generations, so say, we can't paint this exactly like this. When will Serbia be an EU member? Never, perhaps later. If you cheer like that, for God's sake, it looks like this might happen later. Don't, don't delete this article, don't let it serve you, we told you, it'll serve as an example, not to say, nonsense to whoever was a member of the government. It will serve as an example in schools, the children will learn in schools, and the people will talk, here, you see that in 2019 was the composition of the government, here you see what a member of the law was, was he who was futuristic in any case, and that futur seems not Futur II, but some even bigger futur. It'll never be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65998	I thank my colleague Mircic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u65999	Thank you, Chairman. The Serbian Radical Party put forward its position on the proposal for an Agency Employment Act with its amendment to Article 10. It's a bill of law. Our MP group has analysed this bill in detail and we have repeatedly said that we disagree with this bill because it does not contribute to improving the position of workers in the Republic of Serbia. Analyzing this bill, during a debate in principle, the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, Ms Verica Radeta pointed out that this is, in fact, the National Employment Service in poor form. But whatever it is and whatever it contributes or does not contribute to an increase in unemployment, the National Employment Service is a legal and legitimate state body. With full right, we can say that it is a rather glamorous state body that has the capacity for employment, because that is why it exists. The fact is that citizens have long lost confidence in the National Employment Service. Instead of working to restore trust between this authority and unemployed citizens, the government allows agencies to become a parallel body during temporary employment and it represents a great achievement, and in fact, the truth is that it only shows concern for citizens whose name and exercise power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66000	I thank my colleague Ljubenović. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66001	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the Agency's Employment Act, we must ask whether employees who perform temporary and occasional jobs are satisfied, if they do not have the right to rest, if they do not have the right to stay or on a day off. We care that employees of full capacity can exercise their rights. I believe that it should be possible for employees of the employer who do the job with that employer and employees who do the job under the contract on temporary and occasional jobs to be equal, because why would they have different treatment if they did the same job. It would then be discrimination among employees. As far as this particular member is concerned, the question is how does a collective contract with the employer regulate the rights, obligations and responsibilities when it comes to doing business abroad. In this context, I think it is good to standardise which tax-based elements should contain a working relationship contract when employees give in to an employer who operates in the territory of EU Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66002	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66003	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's expert team for economy and social policy very often analyzes the status of workers in Serbia and before the proposal for a law on agency employment, this has only come to us as a single obligation, i.e. one more treat to see where the state of Serbia is counting on it to go with its workers. It's particularly interesting here that Article 12 refers to the contract on the remuneration of an employee in the event of a reference to other countries. Have either of you heard of very negative cases and these are not the individual cases of our workers who have gone abroad so far? Well, that your skin gets chilly when you listen to their true story. What were they able to experience or what they could encounter when they went abroad and allegedly hired? Well, they could have come into a position to take away their passport, to come into a position that they didn't have enough money to go back to their home, let alone make some money there. This isn't good. This Agency Employment Act is, in fact, a surrogate of the law and, as such, it should not survive, nor should it be offered to the legal system of the state of Serbia, let alone take such a hearty stand. Well, we haven't been able to solve the payment classes problem for years for public administration employees, public services, local self-government and AP, let alone solve the problem of unemployed people who would be hired through the agency. Only one other entity appears between the employee and the employer whose primary objective is to collect extra profits for itself. Well, which is the employer's interest in paying and the agency's services when we can find on the market, although a smaller number of those interests that have emerged as deficits can occur and in a very simple way comes to a certain number of people who are not employed needing an agency now. Do you know who the largest employer in Serbia is? Now you're thinking about some big companies whether domestic or foreign, so it's not, the state of Serbia is the biggest employer. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, you said that one of those laws is trying to solve the problem of about 40,000 employees, and in perspective, it should solve the problem of about 400,000 unemployed. So the state is the biggest employer in Serbia. What happens next? There will be these agencies, now I can't imagine how many, but only a few will be in a position of privilege. What are the agencies going to be? Well, it'll be agencies whose owners are very close to this regime. Who's picking up the kamak? Well, they do. What's gonna happen to the employees? Nothing. You say that his basic rights stemming from work, which is the right to pay or to earn, rest, the right to social status will be resolved and will be the same as those of parallel workers in the company, that is, the employer with whom the workers are addressed. And what is their status? We've just come up with this analysis of the defeating data. That although many earn a minimum wage in Serbia, they do not receive it, or receive it, but then they are obliged to return the employer from the employer to the employer, that is different. What's that gonna be? A parallel feature for whoever needs to find a job through this agency will be one difficult social, statusal position. This really is completely unnecessary and completely pointless. This Article 12, we could now dismember so that we can open up a much wider debate because it refers to employment abroad, but our goal is to show that this law is completely pointless and that nothing good will bring Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66004	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66005	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I would disagree with the previous speaker and with the promoters of this amendment, because it says we do not need this law. I think this law is necessary, and I'll explain why. As I come from Kruševac, there are many investors in the town of Kruševec in the last seven years who have come and opened their factories and many of them are hiring, workers and through agencies. So this law just ensures that they are equal rights, as well as those who are employed directly through the employer. I believe, indeed, that this bill is necessary over and that, just as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has thought about all these workers, but also of those workers who, as a fellow previous speaker said, are going through agencies abroad. Of course, this law is very important and we will support this law in the voting day, all SNS MPs, but what has really drawn my attention today is that today President Vukic has opened works on the future Ruma-Shabac highway, and the fast Shabac-Loznica traffic station where there will be a new bridge across the Sava, which is indeed the pride of all of us Serbs and all people who love Serbia, because it was something that was necessary. What I want to add is that just today a contract for the construction of the Moravia Corridor is also signed, and we all know how important this future corridor is that will really mean for all those people who live on the move from Pojat to Cacko. I sincerely hope that this will continue towards other parts of our beautiful Serbia and bring not only Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 together, but will go much further, because this is SNS policy, which is a policy led by President Vukic, which is why we are getting more and more support from the election. So he's a colleague and even bigger in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66006	Thank you, colleague Barisic. Comrade Peric, would you like a replica of my colleague Barisic's presentation? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66007	My colleague, Barisic, you are not a crucial speaker to me, you are a respected colleague of Barisic for me. I must say that the highway of Ruma-Shabac, and the fast traffic station of Sabac-Loznica, colleague Borka Grubor, colleague Blažić and others, or Blažo, are looking forward to the same as you. This isn't about that. We're talking about another situation here. Is there a need for unemployed in Serbia to be employed? There is. The point of the government's existence is to solve those problems, an individual, a Serbian citizen who, with his best will and maximum degree of education and resourcefulness, cannot solve it alone, but needs to solve society, the system, and his obligation is to pay taxes, contribute other public, fiscal, and sometimes non-fiscal revenues so that the state can build, work and invest. These are the facts I spoke of explaining the amendment to Article 12. These are not desert desires, this is something that all citizens of Serbia, or most, or encounter or others know. I was thrilled yesterday at one point when my colleague Malusic was honest when she said the laws weren't passed here, it's only the votes for the laws. As far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned, we do not give it, we are trying to be the real representatives of the citizens of Serbia and not to allow the law to be removed outside this parliament, the only place, according to the Constitution. Maybe someone wouldn't want to, and maybe someone would like to do it for a single person. For many years now, Serbia's standard of living may have been somewhat improved and better than it has been, but for many years now, this regime has been working to collapse the system. That's not good. It's going to come back to those who work most on it, these right here on the right, so they're... They dug their own pit, and eventually they fell into it. You didn't contribute much, maybe just one finger to push them and put them where they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66008	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66009	Thank you, Your Honor. I also thank my dear colleague, the previous speaker, Mr. Peric, for giving me space for this replica. I never thought I'd say anything wrong or belittle myself without speaking to myself, I really respect my colleague, but I just didn't want to give him any space for the replica, because I didn't mean it. But when investment is at all, and when it comes to new routes, I certainly think that a colleague will agree that this is a space for new investments and a new investment in our country. Unless we have healthy, quality roads and infrastructure, none of the foreign and domestic investors will invest in the area. Since I come from Kruševec, I can only say how much investment has been done in the past few years and how many foreign and domestic investors have come just because there are quality roads, healthy infrastructures. Earlier, no one wanted to invest in such neighborhoods when they couldn't reach those parts and have one quality trip, so I think we'll agree. New investments are the way to new jobs, which was a major problem by 2012, with the creation of new factories, means new jobs, it is already a better standard for our citizens and of course we think about all categories of society. I don't think I've made any mistakes in this exhibit of mys. If you were offended that I didn't call you personally, here's my public apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66010	Thank you. Dear Prince, are you mentioned during the presentation of your colleague, Perić, did you want a replica? (Blaža Knezevic: Yes. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Blaža Knezevic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66011	Thank you. Just for a little while, my colleagues, Perich. First of all, the highway of Ruma - Šabac, bridge via Sava, then the fast traffic Shabac - Loznica, but President Aleksandar Vukic said today, so listen a little bit that he will not stop there, that the road will go to Ljubovija, to Bajni Basta, so take note of President Aleksandar Vukic's statement, so that there will also come to Ljubovija, don't worry about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66012	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. By amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66013	Thank you. Of course I fully agree that the amendment to Article 12 should not be accepted. What I must say, of course, is that since the arrival of the SNS to power and how we take care, in general, of citizens, and in particular we take care of each employee, whether he is working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, whether it is a violation beyond the borders of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I have to say that Article 12 refers to a contract on the remuneration of employees in the event of a reference to another country and of course there were problems in the earlier period. However, just by seeing all these problems that have been happening in practice in some earlier years, this is exactly what we want to correct. How do we fix that? By precisely and clearly regulating this law, the Ministry will keep records, so it will have a database in electronic form, about all the agencies that have been granted a license with their headquarters, with their PIB, with their home number. Therefore, employment agencies will be fully visible, as will fully be visible workers who will be admitted to work through the agency. This, of course, when we have a clear and accurate record except for the care of employees, the possibility of and their full protection in all segments of their working-law relationship is opened. Therefore, absolutely this member of the law is necessary precisely in order to protect workers who find work through employment agencies. Also, what I have to point out is that this bill didn't come here to the Assembly for the first time. It is also respected that legal procedure concerning public hearings. In a completely transparent way, the government prepared a bill and prepared this proposal that came before us today by the MPs. What does that mean? This means that all those interested parties took part in the full scope of the draft law, and that means the Chamber of Commerce and the Union of Employers and Trade Unions and agencies engaged in the employment of workers. It is even said somewhere that it is the agencies involved in the employment of workers abroad. So, in a completely transparent way, comments, suggestions and participations were received, all of those parties that could have influenced the quality of the bill's progress. Of course, my colleagues talked about today's big day, the opening of a road open by President Aleksandar Vukic, but I will also mention a very important contract signed on the arrival of Russian Prime Minister Medvedev in Belgrade, which refers to the Bar Line Reconstruction Agreement, which is also important for this Corridor 11 and which is also important for connecting citizens of southwestern Serbia, Užica, Prboj, Prepolje, Požege with Belgrade. Of course, I must also point out that, thanks to the co-operation for the Russians, this railway has been reconstructed in the length of 77km, it is from Resnik to Valjev, that trains on this section of the railway are now traveling 120km per hour, but this agreement, which has recently been signed, refers to the reconstruction of this railway beyond Valjev to Vrbnica, i.e. to the Montenegrin border, so that citizens will no longer have to travel seven or eight hours longer. The track speed of 120 kilometers per hour will also contribute to reducing both the flow and the flow of goods, people, services and, of course, higher employment, and employment especially in the construction industry and how important it is from the aspect of poverty reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66014	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66015	It's just amazing that MPs of the ruling coalition are talking about this law like this, and they see this much destruction and they see this much eviction from the country and they see that there's no one left to work. They see that you lack 90,000 craftsmen and see that anyone who knows anything has left this country, and you adopt, in addition to the Labour Act, who has prescribed a minimum labour price of 30,000 of which no one can live... I'd like the minister to answer how many days he could live off 30,000 bucks? Is that possible? You, in addition to such a Labour Act, instead of changing it into more positive, to do something good for our citizens and our worker, you add a new Agency Employment Act which means pure slavery, i.e. clean sales of workers and not just sales, but reselling. So, the worker closes a contract with the agency, and he makes concessions with an employer. So it's a clean sale. That same employer can give it to another employer. When it comes to the work of a worker in the agency, it can work with our entrepreneurs, and it can work with foreign entrepreneurs who have a branch in Serbia, and that for the same kind of money, the foreign entrepreneur can withdraw the same worker from his country with the same incomes, i.e. with the same money and so that he will have 27,000 and 30,000 workers in the EU country, where he would have to pay for the same job five or ten times more of the same worker. That's how you treat our citizens, that's how you treat our employee, and I'd like you defending this law to stand down one day and identify yourself with those people who are supposed to work at the agency and who are supposed to work for 30,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66016	Thank you, colleague. According to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that someone wants to show that Serbia has become a slave country, an agency of foreign investors and evil domestic businessmen. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: Correct. That's what it looks like. They seem to be the only objections they have to the law. Now there was even talk that the agency would step down. That's what one of the esteemed colleagues said, but does an esteemed colleague know that's what government authorities do? State authorities can also make a second job in another state body and do their job there and earn their salary? Now, those who chuckle prove only their ignorance. I ask another question – do employment agencies exist today in the Republic of Serbia? There are. Is the way these agencies work regulated by law? It's not. It is only possible under the laws establishing companies, registering independent activities, agencies, etc. to be founded, to perform some work, but matter is not, there is no. Those who say the law is wrong, suggest the following -- that we abolish one activity in the Republic of Serbia. - Yes, ma'am. Which one? ) It means that there are no more employment agencies, accounting services agencies, etc. Let's get rid of all the agencies, even the private ones. I understand what they're fighting politically against the state, but why would they want private ones? Are the rights of workers in these agencies today much less than the rights of employees in other companies? They did. Will this law equalise employees' rights in employment agencies with other employees' rights in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? It will. What's the problem? Now it's the next mantra. All of them left Serbia. Do you know that, according to official Eurostat data, in 2018, more citizens of the Republic of Serbia checked out their residence in Germany than they reported. Do you have that information? Why don't you say that? I'm not saying that everyone who checked out of their place of residence in Germany has returned to Serbia, but has returned more in 2017. Why don't you tell the official fact that in 2018, fewer citizens of the Republic of Serbia left and went abroad for temporary work? So, in 2018, fewer of our citizens left Serbia and that same year, more of our citizens returned to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's true. Does that truth bother you? Do you want to... (SRS e-mails playing on cell phones. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66018	My colleagues, please, if we can just turn off the music and let our colleagues finish the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66019	I don't mind geese, but they just show how much certain MPs really participate in the work of the National Assembly and how much these same MPs respect them, first fellow MPs, how much they respect the dignity of the National Assembly and how much they respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who elected them and sent them to this National Assembly. So much for that. And now their behavior gives an obvious example of their honesty and whether they really want something good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. (Miss Radeta: Who? Who? The one who played the geese. That's what you know from your MP group. You won't fool me to step away from the subject, to say how much you don't know. Who doesn't know? Here you go. All the data you provided was incorrect. (The Faith of Radeta: Which one of us?) So, a colleague who spoke, here, before me, here. So none of the information was accurate. And now, let's go from floscule. Do you know that an employee has to pay back a part of his employer's salary? Well, that could have been when the unemployment rate was 25%, 26%, 27% as it was in 2012. Today, it's getting smaller and smaller, almost in the tracks. But now I'm asking each other a question - and why don't these same employees report it to the competent inspection authorities? That's even his crime. Mothers, why don't you report it, Arsic? So they'll report you, report you? Well, don't make it up anymore, we've had enough, we've got the ones from the former regime, they're making up affairs. Now you're making affairs as you arrive with employers, with investors, with agencies, with everything. So you're giving the facts. If you want to help make the law better, you're welcome to do it. Criticize the bad regulations of the law, but don't make up any more data. The Republic of Serbia, led by Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Branbic and all ministers, is going to a safer and better future and becomes a better place to live. Whether you accept it or not, that's your problem. That's just your problem. Do you want to come to power to make you feel better? As you discuss here in the Assembly, you convince me that it is your only desire to be better for you and for Serbia as it is. (Miss Radeta: Replica. ) (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66020	He didn't mention a specific parliamentary group. First of all, colleague Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66021	Dear colleague Arsic, you've been free of anything you've been squeamishing without a goose. You've been suffocating here for four years, and your asphyxiation can no longer be suffered by any of Serbia's citizens, so there's no SRS. If you think you need to get the opposition out of this room completely, so you can stay with your colleagues, then you're wrong. Throwing dust in the eyes of the citizens and what you say - let's get rid of all the agencies, it's not the same. The employment agency that you are now introducing in such a radical way, which may make sense in the EU where the standard is as it is, but it is so pointless and devastating in Serbia where the standard is what it is, with which you can compare when it comes to living in Serbia and living conditions in the EU? Then how can you pass such a law, on what basis can you defend it at all? Do you have the nerve to defend him or do you have to get out of the O.R.? This is a shame. This is one good proof that this government is not patriotic, that this government doesn't care about the citizens, that this government has a proud minister. You know well and boast the directors of various corridors, public enterprises and you know well that they make tens of thousands of squares in Vranjska Banja so they can just connect to the corridor you're building, it's the Moravik Corridor that you pay 300m euros more. If you wanted good to this people, what did you have to do? To deal with these tycoons at last, because your measure of value is how much you have to earn exactly that Gilas. You can't make as much money as he does. Why didn't you arrest him? Why didn't you charge 520m euros for your tycoon tax debt? Why didn't you fill up the state register like that, but you're charging it with these poor people's taxes, these citizens? Well, there's the SRS to open their eyes to this people and that the people know there's someone who's fighting for him. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66022	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66023	Article 27. Col. Milicevic, as correct as you are as you are doing this job, still a small member of 27 obliges you to react a little. We used to listen to our colleague mix up grandmothers and frogs. You had to react. When it comes to the concessions of employees within the state authorities, it is not an agency, then it is no resale, but with the consent of the employees it passes to another body. So it has nothing to do with what my colleague Vesna was talking about earlier. He says we're fighting to get to power so we can get better. That's very interesting, says the representative of the congregation's majority, who, individually, I'm not going to tell anyone about right now, personally, but so many affairs, so much personal wealth, so many double, five-faced salaries and colleagues sitting here. It's simple, it's not correct. But let me tell you, while fellow Arsic fought the agencies, as a great evil, as places where big money was taken, it was, you know, other times, those were times when laws were passed in the National Assembly. This is still a new time, said Mrs Malusic yesterday, this is a time when laws are only passed in the National Assembly. So, on second thought, we've got nothing to hold back from our colleagues who are only here to vote. And whoever makes the laws, we from the opposition fight at least to distract, and those of you who vote alone are not hard for you. It is said to you: bells, votes, goodbyes. The laws are not passed by the National Assembly and it is good that colleague Malusic told us yesterday what you know and what we have been saying for a long time. It's a good thing the public heard it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66024	Thank you, colleague Radeta. You have ordered a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. At least you know very well that it is very difficult to predict what the MPs are going to talk about and you know very well that it is not my manners as chairman... So don't vote, so don't make a statement. ) I thank you, but Mr. Arsic expressed his political position, the political stance of his parliamentary group, which is his legitimate right, I from this place do not go politically to plead. As far as I can tell, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Miss Radeta: No.) I thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66025	It turns out from the discussion my esteemed colleague had in her tail that this authority was treasonous, at least that's what's been said. I don't know what the president of the SRS told her this morning that he considers this government patriotic? Now that's about that connection, and it's called hate. It's called hate, not different. There is talk of living standards in the EU, and do we have a standard of living in the EU? The answer is yes and no. For some we have, for some we don't. Are we talking about a standard in Western Europe? We don't have that standard. But if the EU is so evil, then why do we want its standard of living? You can't have half, half love, half don't like. Let's move on. There were words here about taxes. What country isn't being financed from taxes? Come on, find me that country. Find me a state that doesn't finance from taxes. Maybe Monaco, maybe Andorra, doesn't have an army or police force, has four, five clerks to issue ID cards. Is there a serious state that isn't financed from taxes? I don't think there is. The current law on these agencies still requires the consent of the employee to a derogation. Don't forget that. And whether Serbia is failing or not saying that we have the most direct investment, whether domestic or foreign, of all countries in the region, and some of the countries in the region are our neighbouring EU member states. Romania, which has three times as many residents as the Republic of Serbia, has fewer direct investments than Serbia. Bulgaria, which has about three million inhabitants more than the Republic of Serbia, has fewer direct investments than the Republic of Serbia. Then you claim that the Republic of Serbia has failed. Don't say that. You have the right to your political agenda, but don't do what's right and what citizens feel is good to convince them that it's bad and they're worse and that we're afraid to wait for the election. No, we can't wait for the election to check all policies and the former regimes and the opposition and us from the ruling majority. The election is the only criterion for results, not political attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66026	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Comrade Radeta, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66027	Article 107. It was offensive in what counterpart Arsic had just said. First, he was not invited to interpret what Vojislav Seselj is saying in the National Assembly. Of course, he didn't say what Arsic said, nor did he say it that way. Yes, he said that over the past five years, the government in Serbia has been going further and further towards the patriotic path, but that it should finally break away from the EU, to define co-operation as close as possible with the Russian Federation. It is the attitude of the SRS and no one should interpret it in any way. As offensive as counterpart Arsic says one of us Serbian radicals thinks the state can live without taxes. Who said that? Who said the state can live without taxes? If it's said that the tax can be reduced somewhere, if it's said that the tax administration isn't doing well, if it's said that 30% of the owners of the apartments, say, don't pay taxes, then that doesn't mean, then you think the state can live without taxes. We think everyone should pay taxes and if everyone pays taxes, then the tax rate could be lower. I guess that's a serious tax policy. Look, we think the state can live without taxes. What are we, growing on a branch? Don't make us ignorant, because you know we're not. You say how much you build, build, etc. We've been telling you for days that highways are being built, we support it. The corridors are being built, we support it. But let's prove to us with arguments that the standard of citizens is increasing. It's not. The standard of citizens does not increase or increase so little that it does not notice. That's the problem. We're talking about a state in Serbia where nearly half a million people work for a minimum, and that minimum is 27,022 dinars, and the consumer's lowest basket is 37,000 dinars. Here, explain how you live without those 10,000 dinars so you can survive. We're talking about the standard that's in Serbia. That and your president says that the standard isn't good yet, but something that you're going to do, we don't know exactly when and how to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66028	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. My colleague Vukajlović, you have reached out to the replica, but my colleague, Arsic, points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66029	Article 27. These are general provisions on respect for the Rules of Procedure. So, on 29 October, in a discussion between 12:00 hours and 12.10 hours, the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj says this - this is Vukic, who is again quite a Serb patriot again. So that's what I said, more and more. I don't want much, colleague Milicevic, or knowledge, or knowledge. In the National Assembly, we worry about the Republic taxes and incomes, and on this basis we adopt the Budget Law. And also small children, i.e. first-year law students, learn that property tax is paid as a trusted income to a local self-government unit and that the local self-government unit determines by its decision the rate of tax on property. We're just putting on the highest rate, and they're deciding for themselves. Well, if local self-government decided to tax the tax on property is 0%, that's her problem, it's not the People's Assembly's problem, it's her administration and her sources of funding, not the National Assembly. Just about knowing who knows better laws and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66030	Comrade Arsic, would you like to make a statement in the National Assembly's voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure to Article 27? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is from a colleague of the Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66031	Article 107 is injured. Now you really should have reacted, colleague Milicevic. (Vladimir Orlic): You should have. No, he was supposed to react. Now, if you're going to fix me in grammar, I'm going to kill myself right now. Col. Milicevic, Mr. Arsic just said something I said before, and he said it as something contrary to what I said. Now, what's the danger? That someone had turned on to watch the Assembly since the moment Arsic spoke and that it turns out that I said something contrary to what our president said. So it's inadmissible and it has to react. But especially interesting is what counterpart Arsic said that local self-governments determine taxes, tax rates. It's not the question, it's the way he said it. It is theirs. That is theirs. That is theirs. Well, whose are they, who are they? Isn't there some obligation from the republican level of the National Assembly, a law that here, as a colleague of Malusic would say, which you vote and do not adopt, you don't bring, is it possible that you don't care about local self-government? Is it possible that you don't care how local self-government fills their local budgets? In fact, on second thought, as things stand in the field, Arsic is right, indeed he is. And you are a mess in local self-government, and local self-government is some in a situation where they don't even have the money to pay their wages. They got into some loans, that's when Ana Brnabic was the director of NAED, so when she persuaded them to take all the loans, they're returning those loans, so they don't have a day-to-day job. Then says counterpart Arsic - it's theirs, it's like they're talking, for God's sake, about the local self-government of some of us enemy states, for example. Ustasha Croatia. Thank you. Veroljub Arsic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66032	I heard you, colleague Arsic. My colleague Radeta, I think that, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the citizens, if they got involved later, is clear what anyone said, but I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. A fellow Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66033	Article 103 regarding Article 27, because some of the things that come out of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly are now being said here. We in Serbia have three not branches but levels of government -- republican, provinceal and local. So someone here asked the National Assembly, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to assume the responsibilities of our fellow councilmen by units of local self-government. That's inadmissible. It's a dictatorship. It means there was an open call here for a violation of the Constitution. The second thing, counterpart Milicevic, all of us from the SNS are concerned about our local self-government, is why we give them the authority to function, and they make decisions in accordance with their own interests and estimates, because they correspond to their own citizens who chose them in units of local self-government. It has also been proven and shown in general that Aleksandar Vukic, both as president and as prime minister, has cared about every municipality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There are no municipalities he hasn't visited in the past year or two days. Now we're being transferred, or to me, that we don't want to worry about local self-governments, as they're minors, it's like I said they're some Ustasha local self-government. And that, for those who do not know the laws on taxes, there are taxes on the Republic level, there are taxes that the Republic has prescribed as taxes which are the original incomes of local self-government - property tax, absolute rights transfer tax and trusted incomes, for example, tax on use, holding and carrying goods. But those who are blind can't learn and won't learn, as long as that blindness is before their eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66034	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66035	Article 27(1) Maybe my colleague Arsic is right that we can't understand anything, so I guess he thinks we're a little stupid, but, well, when someone at his level says something like that to us, then we have to keep quiet. But my colleague Arsic is confusing the public, I guess, because of too much intelligence, or do we not understand that stupidly? So in one sentence he says, yes, it's true that local self-government determines the tax itself. According to the law, it's not controversial, even though it says we don't know the law. But who's going to know everything? But he says -- they also determine how they allocate funds and what they do with funds in local elections. That's his first sentence. The second sentence is that Aleksandar Vukic takes care of every local self-government. And now, I guess the people are confused, here, we are -- what's really true? Is Aleksandar Vucic managing taxes and everything that happens in local self-government, according to Arsic, or are the councils doing so and responding to the elections? Don't confuse the public, colleague Arsic. Now people are going to wonder what it is when Vukic comes, whether to ask some councilmen or him, when they see the committees whether to turn to them or wait for Vukic to come and then say - wait, Arsic told us like this, we have to act like that, Arsic is a high-ranking official, one of the most important in the National Assembly, vice president, someone who dares to tell the entire SRS parliamentary group that they are unable to understand something, something to understand, is a great capacity, indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66036	Comrade Arsic, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Do you, colleagues of Radeta, want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66037	I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure, right to replica, because it's obvious that through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's responding to what I said and I have to accept the fact that Radeta's colleague would be right and that she's right if we banalise things. Only under that condition can he be right. Because find me a local self-government that can make a regional or highway. Come on, find it. So if the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are connecting municipalities to each other and connecting them with highways do not care about them, it means that local self-government should do so - I understood and understood it so. It's no different. Can all local self-government provide funding sources to provide adequate medical care in their territory? I can't. And don't let me count on it. For example, the issue of water supply. The question of waste disposal. All these are the competences of local self-government, and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia are helping local self-government solve these problems. Not to mention that there are very few municipalities that can bring investors like Hestil, such as Bosch, etc., not to mention. So that's how he handles local self-government. But don't let them, if you care about them, take away their rights. Because those rights come true right in front of their citizens. If you take away their right, then let us abolish the municipalities' congregations and get everything centralized here from Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66038	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Comrade Jovanovic, did you answer? (Verica Radeta: Radeta's colleague first reported. ) My colleague Jovanovic, a colleague of Radeta, here, I will allow Rade's colleague to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you to, after that... I don't think there's any need to use article 103th and 8th when it comes to you and about my colleague Arsic. I think we can lead this kind of dialogue through debate, through replica, through debate on amendments... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I do not want to have a debate, but rather point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66039	So now you've turned your attention, colleague Milicevic, I assume Mr Arsic, and you wanted to tell him that he's not answering his business anymore, because you've already given me your word, so you said it all. What we just heard from a colleague Arsic is an insult to intelligence, and therefore a member of 107. He talked to a colleague about us misusing the Rules of Procedure, because we used the Rules of Procedure as a replica, even said Article 106, we talked about the subject. After that sentence, the man continued to talk about the subject for three minutes without having to do with the Rules of Procedure and we don't mind it, and we don't mind it, but how can you say that someone's abuse of the Rules of Procedure and he's using it for replication and then spend more time than expected to do the same. It's just at least not correct. One more thing. A colleague, Arsic, had recently changed the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia through this violation of the Rules of Procedure, believe it or not. I quickly reviewed the Constitution, I said I hadn't overlooked anything, he didn't, he said the President of the Republic and the Government helped function local self-government and government. So, the government transfers some responsibilities, it's all regulated and the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Government, on ministries, everything is regulated. But where did you find the president to help? Where does it say that? I really don't know. So don't change the Constitution through the Rules of Procedure. It's too much, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66040	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. () Col. Jovanovic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66041	Reporting under Article 107(1). I also have to report for the dignity of the Assembly, and also because, ultimately, Minister Ruzic, who was a national MP, because, as he said, it is probably from the ignorance of Veroljub Arsic, who is even vice-president of the National Assembly and should know better the laws than the MPs, then there would be no Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Branko Ruzic, and then what will the Law on property taxes be for us. Imagine the situation, Veroljub Arsic said – they can, it has nothing to do with the National Assembly, the amount of property tax, as they determine, do. Of course it all has connections, for the National Assembly is the one who passed the Property Tax Act, and Articles 5, 6 and 7 clearly specify how local self-government will carry out the determination of the coefficients and charge the property tax. That, fellow Arsic, which you have long or been or have not been a councilor, which you have forgotten the law does not mean that you can deceive citizens in this way and thus destroy the dignity of this Assembly and its original authority. Imagine, please, Col. Milicevic, here is Branko Ruzic here, by November 30th of the current year each unit of local self-government is required to adopt an act to determine the amount of tax on property that cannot be higher than one index point for an extra zone in one city. Otherwise, each unit of local self-government must determine at least two zones in which to charge taxes. This coefficient is made by a decision of the units of local self-government and it therefore has its number in dinars or is the index point. Imagine that this unfortunate Zelenovic from Sapac did not make such a decision at all. Do you think it would just go away - the dots don't apply, he boycotts the government and the Republic, he doesn't make a decision. That's why there is a member of the 7th same law, Mr Arsic, and his 5th position, which he says - in case the local self-government unit doesn't do so and within the legal time limit, then the basis for... (President: I thank my colleagues. )......................................................................................................... determine the tax on property by means of a government act, i.e. by means of an assessment at the accounting value of that asset. (President: I thank my colleague Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... . A little knowledge, a little more attention and listening to those who know it better than you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66042	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. You have pointed out the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 107 - the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to speak about what is the point of the agenda" and therefore we continue to debate. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66043	Dear colleague Arsic, you see, when you find it hard to call on your president, and just to tell you that you have three Vucicians as party president, it would not be possible for the president of your party to cover your lack of understanding of reality, your dissatisfaction and the haughtiness of the ministers you have in the government. That's one thing. Secondly, since you're right, and since you said that we Serbian radicals have not been able to defend or work solely for our interest, I ask you, let me ask you, Minister Ruzic, how much pension will it be to a man who has so far had 27 thousand dinars, and from this moment on will have 30,000 dinars of personal income? Where will this Serbia be in five, 10, 15 and 20 years, does any of you think about it? No, because you're in power, because you live from mandate to mandate, because you take this much from that budget that you only charge from taxes and from court, or private perpetrators, who take from the people and what they can't and what they can't, and now you've made them more powerful by putting them as civil servants and 12 years in prison for assaulting a civil servant. What you did to the country of Serbia and what you do to make our children leave here as soon as possible will be remembered if you are not stopped by Serbian radicals. Please stand up, since you said you were an economist, you understand all of this, to calculate my pension if the personal income is 30,000, how much pension there will be and tell me how you can live off that pension, and tell me your income.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66044	Comrade Arsic, you are mentioned during the presentation of counterpart Nikolic Vukajlović. Do you want a replica? Veroljub Arsic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66045	I don't understand that kind of anger, is it someone who's angry that the minimum salary in 2012 was 16,000 dinars, and today it's 30,000 dinars? It's an increase of almost 100%. It's a grudge against SNS and Alexander Vukic. It's okay. It's okay. How much are my receipts? Same size as yours. What are you asking me? And they're public. And they're public. And they're public. Maybe there's a difference in work alone, nothing more, in coefficient. It's on the Anti-Corruption Agency website. What's so controversial about that? Is it disputed that the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is now 500 euros, and when we came to power it was 350-360 euros? Is it disputed that the pension budget today is nearly 200 billion higher than it was in 2012? And that's just not good. Is it disputed that employees of government authorities will receive better salaries, bigger? And that's not good. Is it disputed that it is no longer 27% of the unemployment rate but below 10%? And that's not good. Is it good that, say, GDP growth in the third quarter was 5% compared to the third quarter of 2018? And that's not good. Who are you defending the Republic of Serbia from? Who are you defending the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from? From a better life? Something's changed as a matter of fact. It's nothing. Oh, it's changed a lot. Is that enough? It's not. Are we going to work to make it better? We'll work. We're doing it here while we're passing the laws. It's what ministers do. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, does the same. What's more controversial? Who do we hate? Who do we make these highways for? So our citizens don't go abroad anymore. Why are we bringing investors? These evil foreign investors, why are we bringing them in? So our citizens don't go abroad. Why do we subsidize every job? So our citizens don't go abroad, that they can live decently from their work on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. (President: I thank you. Is it great? It's not. Is it better? Yes, it is. Are we working to make it better? We're working. We do, and you just talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66046	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on the replica, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66047	When Mr. Arsic is so right, now that he hasn't answered how much pension there will be for people who have a personal income of 30,000 and what they will be able to buy from it and what the state will look like in 10.15 and 20 years, the state will be one big social case, a collective social case, if this government continues to work with such ministers in this way. Another question would ask him, since he understands all of this and because he praises 30,000 dinars that it's quite enough, quite in place and quite fine, as their greatest success, I'm now asking him, what is his business environment, what have you done to make an economic environment that someone who wants a private business to deal with? Give me three acts, or give me three private jobs that could at this point be a normal one to bark, other than the Stra “May”, the SZR “Zora”, the one that rubs the fingernails, the one that makes the sawing, what the casinos do, what the starlets do, etc. Is there anything in this Serbia that is normal to do, Mr. Arsic, answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66048	Thank you, colleague Nikolic Vukajlović. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66049	I'm not going to advertise businesses, and I'm not even at the employment fair, and don't insult the actions they do. By 2012, however, only a service existed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and don't call our employees the starlets. It's a shame. One more thing to tell you, 24 grand would be a pension for an employee who has a salary of 30 grand throughout his entire working life. Just how much pension my mother has, not a penny more, just so much. I guess I love my mother. Is this a dispute now, do we need to bring down the National Assembly because that's the case? One more thing, you're talking about a minimum labour price. In order to pay the minimum labour price, it must be in a very unfavourable financial situation to prove it, it must even be blocked to pay the minimum labour price. It has to be blocked, it can't be the minimum price of work. So, from the revenue he's got, past the blockade to pay off the profits. Don't you... (SRS e-mails playing on cell phones. I don't googling here, but I'm discussing it, and the pirates...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66050	My colleagues, please allow my colleague Arsic to speak. After him, she applied for the discussion, i.e. the replica and colleague Nikolic Vukajlovic. Just a moment for my colleague Arsic to finish. Please turn off the music. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66051	I don't have anything against pirates and geese. It's a wonderful Serbian instrument. The pirate singing is a folk song, to say the tradition, but it is obvious that some MPs in the National Assembly know nothing more than to glamour how they care about citizens, how the state robs them, how we traitors, how this EU criminal organisation, wants us to have a standard of living as in EU countries, to ask questions that they themselves know the answers to, I don't mind even answering them. But one thing you can't argue is that today every citizen in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is a little better than yesterday, and you can't argue that tomorrow will be a little better for him than today. It seems to me the problem that bothers you the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66052	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66053	Dear colleague Arsic, no one has said that Alexander Vukic is a traitor and is leading a treasonous policy, but that you betrayed him, that's correct. That's right. You haven't answered my question, give me a solution, make a suggestion, give me a suggestion on what you've created this economic environment for this private enterprise, given that I'm a 25-year private and that I have no idea what I should be doing in this country right now. Not me, but let us answer to all the people who can do something, who wants something, and there are many of us. Do not underestimate the intelligent people of the Republic of Serbia. Don't underestimate our entrepreneurship and our entrepreneurial spirit. If we're good workers abroad, we're good workers for ourselves. Why didn't you look up to Hungary, which opened over a million small private companies, with us opening up five thousand a year and the same five thousand closing up. Do you know that the average in the EU is 99% of people work in private entrepreneurs and that in those minimal, micro-enterprises that employ one to nine workers. Do you know that one strong German 65% of people work in private companies in Germany. How many of us are working here, with our private entrepreneurs, and how did you rebuild this private enterprise, and how did you stop our children from leaving highly educated or not have to be highly educated, but how will you stop leaving in the first place, leaving like this? Finally, we will all look for one collective asylum from this Republic of Serbia if you continue with your ignorance to rule and exclude Vukic, because he cannot cover it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66054	Thank you, colleague. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66055	Well, I'm a little longer in that private branch than you are, 30 years, a little longer. Now, if I were to teach someone whether to engage in electrical engineering, electrical engineering, machine work, etc., I guess citizens themselves are trained on the basis of their knowledge and expertise, whether they're going to do carpentry, whether they're going to make tishlerium, whether they're going to make parquet. You have such successful businessmen, you just need an initiative to have the courage to decide on such a single step, and that's where I start from myself, and then I have the right to say something about others. I have no intention of criticizing anyone unless he has the courage. All that data you've given, here I believe it's true, and that more than 90% works in the private sector in Germany and that 65% is employed and small and micro-enterprises, etc., here's everything I believe. Just then I don't know why you're attacking that model here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and criticising a developed economic system that we're trying to make in Serbia? Nemanja Sarovic: Have you done or are you trying? We call it. Don't play that overnight. I'd like to ask my colleagues, who don't have a single day's work outside of the economy, not to get me out of politics. It just proves what they'd be like if they exercised power. Is the problem, obviously, that there's so much anxiety with you because of the upcoming election that you don't want to let me finish the discussion. But it doesn't matter, we'll measure in three, four months, so where do you guys go, let's see, and I'm saying at least ten times as much as you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66056	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66057	Again, dear colleague Arsic, you have not answered the question of what you have created this economic environment that you say can be done. Is this agriculture, which is the kind of action that can be done in this country to Serbia without having a market. You're neglecting the fact that you found the sold market without working on it. Whatever our agricultural producer, craftsman or any of us are going to produce, he has nowhere to sell it, and at the same time you haven't worked on the outside trade, on these quality contracts with abroad where we could place our goods, not the way you place it, in raw materials, where you have cold-cleaning monopolies, but a truly, essential new product that will lead to an increase in GDP. If you think that GDP is going to rise in this way, with 30,000 minimum labour costs, you're wrong. It'll take a while, after that, you'll only have pensioners left in the country. This pension fund won't have anyone to charge, because out of 30,000 personal incomes, i.e. minimum wage, you see what that's the percentage that goes into the pension fund and you see when you can and how we can expect a pension in this country. Don't defend the indefensible. You've worked for these four years, you've relied solely on the president of the party and the President of the Republic. As you rely, you will pass. You think you can win the election that way, you're wrong. You'll get it, but how long?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66058	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66059	I guess we'll win the election until someone shows up better than us. I guess it's a rule. Be better, then beat us. You just have to be better first. This is my esteemed colleague, Marijan Risticevic. When the EU imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation and there was a great chance for Serbian farmers, we simply couldn't take out as much as we were asked. We didn't have one. Is that true? Not to mention how all of our businessmen conspired to place goods on the Russian Federation market, even imported from banned countries, from countries that imposed sanctions, but the condition was that more than two-thirds of them would be domestic goods to pass that one-third there. Is it the same thing as 32 billion gross products or 41? Well, it's not. Thirty-two was in 2012, today it's 41.42 billion. What are you talking about? One more thing. Since you're both a businessman and you're attacking these evil private perpetrators, you want me to show you how many outstanding judgments I have in favor of, and I couldn't charge them for the courts. Are we going to talk about what kind of economic environment he has? We want to talk about it? First of all, in order for someone to do something to you from Serbia or come to Serbia, there must be legal regulation and security that there is protection of the state and its organs for what it does, and you are attacking everything possible. So whenever someone tries to do something good, you look and banalize things up to that limit to make it degutant. You're banalizing things. The medal always has two sides. It's only important that the better side be dominant, but you're always looking at the worse side and banalizing to the little ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66060	Thank you. Replica, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66061	Dear colleague Arsic, you've just admitted your embarrassment, your dissatisfaction. When you had the opportunity to export to the countries of the Russian Federation and when you had the opportunity to deal with agriculture, you didn't exactly do it because you didn't have anything to take out. In order for you to have anything to export, you had to prepare a farmer for a particular agricultural product, to make him a cooperative, a secure ransom and a safe price. You didn't do it because you didn't do it because you weren't interested. That's one. Two, you said you were looking for good court regulations. Instead of building institutions, if you'd reformed the judiciary, you'd go the easy way so you could fill the budget, so you could smoke a tompus and live like that Sanader you were talking about today, your ministers, not specifically, I don't think it would even look like you, then you kicked out of court institutions, you pulled the execution, and then you made bailiffs who went and went to kidnap people. These court perpetrators have at least 10 to 12 certain items in which they charge, you were just talking about it at one of the sessions when it was an amendment to that law. So it was to pay the bailiff what he wrote, he was paid what he took to the post office, he was paid until he returned, he was paid while drinking coffee, he was paid while he was enveloped, he was paid when he was archived and finally paid for a job well done. Shame on you, on behalf of all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66062	Col. Rističević, you want a replica since your colleague, Arsic, mentioned you, and you can get a replica after your colleague Rističević's presentation, because you first mentioned your colleague Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, in order to eat delicious bread, you must first sow wheat, first be nursed, and reaped, then transported, and stored, and then grinded, and meatd, and roasted, and then delivered to the customers. Then that bread is delicious, but it should take some time. To eat a delicious, sweet, mature fruit, you need to plant the seedlings a few years early. Why am I telling you this? Exports to Russia of agricultural products have jumped in recent years. We can't do apples in 2014, we can only do those apples that we have, otherwise we're smugglers. But we planted another 70% of the surface, now we export apples, say, to Russia for at least 100m euros. So it's a product of some work, some planting, anti-urban networks, etc. You remember the yellow ones. When we were transferring subsidies, to have a chance at these export results, from war cultures, so as not to subsidise plant production through war cultures for other people's livestock, we were already transferring to orchards, fruit material, anti-building networks, etc., to adapt to markets and to have more intensive agricultural production. When we were doing it, she was jumping on Jerk, and she was yelling, and you were touching the steams, etc. Well, cattlemen are previous couples. So we switched these incentives to more intense cultures and this resulted in increased exports to Russia, several times larger, from agriculture and the food industry, but it took a certain time to plant fruit, grow and mature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66064	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Col. Arsic, you want a replica of the presentation of counterpart Nikolić Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66065	Now for the presentation of colleagues Marijan Rističević. So, counterparts Risticevic and Aleksandar Vucic and SNS are guilty that in 2009, they did not know that the EU would impose economic sanctions on imports of agricultural products to the Russian Federation. And even then, that we have urged citizens to plant apples, to start a different agricultural production, not just the wartime most basic. Here, so that's the criticism of Alexander Vukic. It's our fault that in 2009, we didn't know, as we didn't know in 2009 that 2014 would be those catastrophic floods. However, counterpart Risticevic rarely happens to be a direct exporter to a agricultural producer. There's got to be some company doing it for him, some re-export, export, etc. And now, this agricultural producer is producing these apples, selling these apples to the company, exporting these apples, charging them, and not paying the farmer. The agricultural producer sues the exporter, gets it in court, and who's going to charge that judicial verdict now? I guess your bailiffs will. Mr. Risticevic, the biggest problem is that we banalize everything, coffee, tampus and everything else, we don't deal with the essence. But those who banalize, Mr. Risticevic, go into political history because of their banality. Also, we are against charging paratroopers for the enforcement process, because in the end, this agricultural producer still pays for it. This is what we're going to do to get the Ministry of Justice to bring a better and better cost in the process of execution, i.e. in order to facilitate the payment of the claim made by the agricultural producer to an exporter who has not paid him the goods, and the payment must be made by the executing court.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66066	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66067	Mr. Arsic, I'm glad you understand yourself in the economy, of course I forgive you that part of the store full of empty shelves, that part I forgive you. It's not your fault, it's the sanctions. So, Mr. Arsic, do you know we export apples to Russia, currently 90%, apples go to Russia. Imagine if Russia imposed sanctions on me, 90% of the apples couldn't go to Russia and our farmers wouldn't have a market. Do you agree? We have to have, international relations and international politics are like climates, you can not admit it doesn't exist, but you'll get wet. You can say we shouldn't cooperate with Russia, and you won't sell apples. And now each other's data. For example, we exported 230m euros of raspberries last year, and Russia bought 2.5%, and the European Union bought everything else. Now let me ask you - should we break up relations with Russia? No, I don't. Do we need to break up relations with the European Union? If we do that, our raspberries should know that only 2.5% of raspberries go to Russia, and everything else goes to the European Union, say Germany 70 million, France 60 million, Britain 20 million. Maybe I'm wrong about a million two, but also because of the Malian strikes, I had to learn that. So we must also have good relations with the European Union and Russia. This is exactly what this government is doing. I don't see the problem, I don't see the problem, but some MPs, so I say I'm glad you understand the matter. Some MPs say – turn off the European Union, our peasants have fallen. Others say - turn off Russia, our peasants have fallen again. We have to because of agriculture, as in the market, to have as large a market as possible, as many customers on the left and on the right, from the center and from the back. Now, that's politics, and I'm glad you understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66068	Thank you, colleague Rističević. A colleague named Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66069	Mr. Milicevic, it is good that the discussion is being conducted and that is the essence of the National Assembly, but that discussion is being held amongst the inexperienced. You know, this is me thinking for the first time that this is the way that the chairman allows people to exchange replicas from a single election list. You, if you have any doubts about your own policy, then it would be good to exchange your doubts somewhere else, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, as long as there has been a debate between MPs who are from different electoral lists, that's okay and it should be allowed, but this is really to imagine, now that I'm called Milorad Mircic, here's a replica, so let's keep going until morning. If it's going to be the principle of functioning of the National Assembly, I agree, because I don't like Mr. Milorad Mircic, although I think he's a much bigger economic expert than, for example, this one who falsely presents himself as an economic expert, but let's see, let's find out some rules that will apply to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66070	Col. Sarovic, Mr. Risticevic is a representative of a parliamentary group. One is the electoral list, the other is the parliamentary groups. Mr. Arsic is a representative of the second parliamentary group. You said it was good to have a debate. During the dialogue, Mr. Arsic mentioned Mr. Risticevic. It is up to me to allow Mr. Risticevic to respond and to enable this dialogue. It doesn't make sense, of course, that it's being conducted within the same parliamentary group and that's where I agree with you. As for the like-minded and whether the debate is about the same-minded. Well, they don't always have to think the same thing, because if they thought about all the questions, they wouldn't think the same thing enough. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66071	I'm advertising Article 107. Mr. Milicevic, we Serbian radicals are trying to participate in the work of this assembly. We're taking part as a real opposition, maybe once it's a heated debate, maybe this debate is stronger, sometimes there's an incident to be made, there's no need to hide, so it comes down to some personal level. But please don't, as chairman, let us all be present here, while certain MPs throw each other in as they say, in a simple jargon of replicas. That really doesn't make sense. Look, why do I insist you protect us? It's such an intellectual discharge that it's simply a need to open the door to get that mind out of this room so it won't be closed in this room. We hear so much of that intellectual, we hear so much of that thing that they're guidance for the future. So from Russia, the EU, so how much we export, how much we import, and then the peak of all that cynicism is mutual when they tell each other, I'm glad you understand, and they both know it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66072	Comrade Mircic, I have never slowed the willingness of the SRS to participate in the debate, as you cannot dispute my willingness to just always be ready to allow MPs to speak. I've never denied it. So, Mr. Arsic, not to mention Mr. Risticevic, I really don't see it as a game. It's up to me as chairman just to make it possible for him to answer the question. I've never played games in my life. I've heard but I've never played. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66073	Yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like the National Assembly to be declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66074	My colleague Rističević, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66075	Mr. Chairman, member 103 and member 104. I ask the secretary to provide me with information as to how many replicas my MP group has had today, how many injuries the Rules of Procedure suffered, and how many oppositions did it have. I'm not going in at all why the Rules of Procedure's injuries were in replicas, turned into replicas, but just so you weren't biased on my side. To determine how many of my replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure, including this one for this entire parliamentary group, you can if you allow this larger group and for them, and to determine how many parties it has been protesting. I think that would be fair to them and to us. As far as I'm concerned, I used the replica without any agreement with Mr. Arsic because he called me and asked if I knew what was going on after the sanctions with Russia. I replied that it took time to pass from planting to mature fruit that we exported in the quantities I spoke and said we should not leave Russia or the EU, because we have a solid job with raspberries on the EU. Now, that was the only thing that our viewers, our rabblers, our fruitcakes from those discussions concluded that we had to go with both Russia and the EU. That was my intention. I absolutely say, I can go to the polygraph if I haven't arranged anything with Mr. Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66076	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Of course, the intention of me as chairman is not bias, in any case. On the contrary, I've been trying all along to find a balance between respect for rights and positions and opposition. The information you requested will be received from the secretary of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66077	Mr. Milicevic, here I am to support this initiative by Mr. Marijan Risticevic. I think she's really welcome. So to determine how many times someone from the SRS parliamentary group pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and how many times did those belonging to the ruling regime do so. This would indeed show how well we do our job, how much we point to all violations of the Rules of Procedure that come to the members of the ruling coalition, and on the other hand, how many MPs of the ruling coalition abuse the procedural powers given to them by the Rules of Procedure. It would be even more interesting to see how many times they've broken time. I'm not talking about these parts of the session when it's tolerated to each other, whenever the arches are the same I'm in agreement, but you know very well that there's a regular phenomenon here, that it's always allowed the representatives of the authorities to speak practically unlimitedly, that their replicas sometimes last or damage to the Rules of Procedure for five minutes, and that, as a rule, the session is interrupted when one of the opposition should speak. And you're not sure why you came up with the idea that when you declare a break of two minutes, five or an hour, it doesn't matter, that after that whoever was in the system registered for a replica or for a violation of the Rules of Procedure that he no longer has the right to do so. There in the Rules of Procedure, when it stands to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately following a done injury, it may be after seven days if the work break lasted seven days. So it's important that it's right when the session continues and there's no way I can affect that. We will certainly be proud of the citizens of Serbia that you will announce how active we were and how much we did not allow you to violate this little rights that we have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66078	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Of course you will receive complete information, both you and your colleague Risticevic. As far as time goes, and if we're talking about the session's afternoon session, and we can do it in the morning, I don't think there were double standards and double archaics, and I think I tried to allow MPs of the opposition and MPs of the post to express their views, not wanting to make it impossible or break their minds, and you know it very well, there's no reason to respect it. I think that during the day, as far as I know, we did not take a break in accordance with Article 112, but we allowed MPs to turn through the infringements of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, made the replicas possible, because it was a democratic debate and a democratic confrontation of opinions. I really don't want to deny it. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66079	You're very correct, Mr. Milicevic. I wish others had learned something from you. I want the Assembly to declare itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66080	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66081	Dear counterpart Milicevic, I have not yet experienced that the opposition wants to ban the MPs from speaking, it was usually until 2012, that the government banned, but good. How well I understood my esteemed colleague, Marijan Risticevic, if the Republic of Serbia gave up EU membership bids, to say, "Hestil" leaves Smederevo and Sartid, since all the steel they produce is 90 per cent there. I think, as far as I understand you, a Chinese investor would leave Bor, but who would he sell our copper to? It also seems to me that Ling Long, one of the world's largest tire manufacturers, would not invest in a factory in Zrenjanin. There would probably not be a Turkish flow, nor a "Micubishi" would be in India, and probably "Gasprom" would leave Serbia's oil industry, because it would have no one to sell the derivatives it produces. It's just, you know what, Mr. Risticevic, it's clear to me and you, and to people who are empty and full of themselves, it's never going to be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66082	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66083	I want to speak according to the amendment because we in the SRS, we put this attitude and in the principle debate, and now through the amendments, we think that the Agency Employment Act should not exist and we think that it is very bad, that it will in no way contribute to improving the status of employees in Serbia, and even if we were to pass such a law, then we have turned your attention through the amendments to how many bad things are and unsaid, right in this law. You're here on working conditions, the government has predicted what needs to be met by someone who's been dealing with this agency's employment business and you haven't put it anywhere, and the minister hasn't answered us, and you haven't put anywhere that someone who's setting up this agency has to have some money, has to have some bank guarantee, because you've also predicted in this law that an employee can suffer some damage and that the employee is being treated by an employer, if the employer won't, then it's being subsidized by the agency. Now we ask how? How when no agency commits to having any single dinar, that just means, exactly what we're talking about this bill, the workers will be left behind. This acquittal employee will be assigned to a company there, he will not have the same rights as someone who is employed in that company, in that company, but if he comes into a situation to suffer any damage, there will be no damage to pay. Of course, we didn't get an answer to the question of what will happen when this agency stops working, because the agencies open up for a five-year period, and when the agency, the legal or physical person, does not have to ask, so the continuation of the work is not automatically extended, but the request has to be re-provided and the evidence of the fulfilment of the terms of all but the provision of certain funds, and let's say that natural or legal person, that person who was the owner of that agency no longer wants to deal with the work. Then what happens to the workers, the employees, the employed employees that the agency has assigned for a certain time if before that time the agency has ceased to exist, won't the owner restore the agency? What's going to happen to that second-guessed employee? What happens to him when he runs out of time in that company he's been assigned to? Are you returning it to the National Employment Service or is it staying somewhere invisible, so that your data at the National Employment Service would be a single-digit number of unemployed? We repeat what we have spoken here many times. What these experts are asking for from the government and the Bureau of Statistics is to give them the right information, the ones that these experts know and want to use to go public with the data on how much the average profit is, how much unemployment, GDP, and so on, everything you represent in the way it suits you, and the real situation is very different. So it can happen at one point that thousands of employees through this agency are left without an employer, or without an agency. The employer's term expires, the contract expires, and where do the thousands belong then? Minister Djordjevic, when we asked him something similar, said that when it comes to our people working on black abroad, there are data that two, three thousand people from Serbia work abroad and work two, three hundred thousand people from Serbia who go to the white world through some crazy agencies, which often run out of passports and without that last salary. There they struggle, both hungry and thirsty in some containers, with no possibility, without the dinars coming back. They'd come back, but they don't have the dinars to go back to where they came from. So a lot of hard things happen to our people who walk away with their stomachs after bread. You won't admit it. These people are, most importantly, off the National Employment Service list and for so many unemployed, they're still unemployed. There's trouble out there somewhere in the world where they went. They come back barely, they deport them, because they don't even have the opportunity to pay for a ticket and he's not gonna get any better when they're these agencies, because what's done now is done through some agencies. If you think these agencies are gonna be any better, someone's gonna feel... It's just that no one has ever explained to us what good it is, what better it is, what is it positive if someone is employed through the agency instead of hiring through the National Employment Service? That's the question we've been trying to get you to answer for several days. No representatives of the executive government, no representatives of the National Assembly... Well, yesterday we understood that laws were not passed in the National Assembly, but only voted, so it is unnecessary to ask colleagues, who only vote, what they think of the bill and how they think a certain problem can be solved. So, you're bad at law. As far as we're concerned, it would be best to withdraw it, but worst case scenario is that you accept our amendments to provide as much security to those people who will be granted to certain companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66084	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66085	Ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed viewers and even more respected media that I hope you will convey, there is the National Employment Service, there is a MP, Miroslav Aleksic, there is his old man. In their time, they figured out how to hire people, but more how to put money in their pocket. The old man put it in Triestenik, you who are there from Kruševec, etc., you know, the director of the National Employment Service, and also he, the old man and wife, who he hired in the free media in Trstenik, formed a Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources, NGOs and received a secretary from Juliana later. Then they figured out how to hire people, by having an old man pump his son-in-law Miroslav Aleksic out of the National Employment Service near 50,000 dinars, or, after that course, over 500,000 euros in the NGO of the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources, as if people were employed, so the purpose was, for example, the collection of leaves in March. No yellow leaves, no green leaves, but the reason the contracts were made was that. People got a part-time job. There's no work contract anywhere. Anyway, the money ended up in the pockets of Miroslav Aleksic and his father-in-law. It's the one, Mr. Martinovic, who held a press conference and wants to plant apples. He doesn't believe in Russia, he's asking us to spoil our relationship with Russia, and he's planting apples to export to Russia. Unseen... I don't know what that is, a hypocrite probably. He lied harshly today. Today he held a press conference for who knows which time on "Jovanja", which was founded in 2011. Something we weren't the government back then. That's what we were after in 2014 for some slight smuggling, but the court, that yellow court, released him when we were writing a report for some export abuses right in Russia. The court in Old Paz seems to have freed him. Today, he said that the five-year-old seedlings were found in "Jovanja". Remember, found hemp crops five years old. You older ones who certainly remember when that industrial hemp was growing in villages, it's a one-year-old plant. She can't be more than a year old. Look out, Miroslav Aleksic, who wanted to be not only president of the Agriculture Committee, but offered to be minister. Why don't you say so? Why don't you say at a press conference that you were offered to be Minister of Agriculture, and if not, at least the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, because he allegedly wasn't in good relations with Tadic. Your President, I tell him if it's anything, to be some MP anymore, I don't mind being president anymore, but he said, "No, not in the least, I don't take it." Why don't you say how he offered himself to you? Why don't you tell the press conference that he's a rude liar? If he says the seedlings are over five years old, he means it was done before he got approval for industrial hemp. The media N1 and Baškim Ulaj, adviser Jugoslav Ćosic, both lie roughly. Well, Yugoslavia, Cosic, publish this too – hemp is not a multi-year-old plant. She can't be five years old, and you know it best, because you advised Baškam Ulai, leader of the tropoly Albanian mafia. You know as a counselor, you couldn't advise that hemp can only be a one-year-old plant. One more thing, you can't test THC levels until the hemp throws flowers. He exported small seedlings in August, they say, to Macedonia, Slovenia. It takes time to grow up in August. When the police were booming, they found, and without a flower, they couldn't determine the level of THC whether they crossed 0.3 and arrested both the owners and nine those involved. So I'm saying, the one who took the money to hire 50 million NGOs, where he put an old man as a director, a member of his NGO, a woman to report it to Tristenik, he, the head of that agency, and then transferred it to that Julian who ended up in custody, took 50 million. When you calculate by course then, it's over 500,000 euros for buying leaves in March. And well, the party's resales, not just to Vuk Jeremic, before that, Tadic repeatedly. He has repeatedly sold the party as Marinika has repeatedly been to several different parties. So that's the most common liar. And in the next few days, I'm going to tell him that the SNS and this government and the Ministry of Agriculture are not so disgusting on some issues. I'll say that some other time. Now I'm saying, Yugoslavia, Cosic, drug counselor, you know very well that hemp is a one-year-old plant and say that when they broadcast a contribution about Mr. Alexic who claims that the seedlings were five years old. To other colleagues, I'm grateful. This power runs the Serbian ship, as you told Martinovic, the restless sea, goes as he must along those waves. In order to get to the port of success, progress and prosperity and a better and better quality life of its citizens must pass that path. And I'm grateful to those of you who criticise, who say that you, on a shorter path and a better path, would enter that port of success, which you are criticizing. I'm grateful to you. I'm not grateful to these guys, not because they're criticizing us, I'm not grateful to them for not looking at how to get over those waves, but looking to make them bigger. That's why I see a serious big difference between you and them. I do not admit them, as I do not admit a statement by Miroslav Aleksic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66086	I owe you an answer to the question you just asked, and as for the questions you have referred to the General Secretariat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, concerning today's session, you can get it in writing, but here's for the record. So during today's debate, the SNS had 23 replicas and three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, SRS 24 replicas and 12 injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Movement -- the People's Peasant Party -- the United Peasant Party of Two Replicas and one violation of the Rules of Procedure. No problem at all, but the question was how much did anyone have? I've provided information and you can get it in writing if you want, of course. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66087	Just to be clear, Mr. Milicevic. Thank you, we're proud of the information you've provided, but I have the right to tell you I didn't expect you to be just for today. Give it a little bit wider to see, if it takes for the whole term and for this year. We are extremely proud of how well we do the work for which Serbian citizens have chosen us. So, give me the complete data.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66088	Comrade Sarovic, you can always get complete information, just in writing contact the General Secretariat of the National Assembly. The question was today. counterpart Sarovic asks for a certain period of time. Of course you can, but you have to contact the secretary general in writing. counterpart Barisic, you wanted to speak on the amendment of your colleague Marijana Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66089	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I am mentioned in some way as someone from Kruševac, otherwise it is the neighbouring municipality of Mr. Aleksic of Tristenik, I would only refer to Mr. Rističević's exposure. I just want to add something else. The MP who came today to sign up and take travel expenses, and he did not set foot in this hall, since he allegedly boycotts these next elections, boycotts the work of the Assembly, according to counterpart Risticevic, who sold his party to Jeremic. Afterwards, this same colleague, while serving as the president of the municipality, did not receive one salary, received more salaries. He received a monthly fee of 107,216 dinars as the president of the municipality of Trstenik. Then, at the same time, he was a member of the Supervisory Board of the Muscular Factory in Kruševec, had 40,258 dinars per month, then a member of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise “National Park Kopalnik”, 17,355 dinars per month and director of the Planning and Construction Directorate Trstenik 72,000 dinars. I would remind you that this colleague who very often likes to mention all of us from the SNS, that he is engaged in the diplomats of our colleagues, has not yet shown his diploma, and otherwise he has been dug up by the entire Triestenik to find his diploma. Then, this same colleague, I would add, counterpart Risticevic, is probably more familiar to you since you are the president of the Agriculture Committee has received a tractor from the state, and this same country, and this is the Ministry of Agriculture who has been trying to challenge at every turn, the work of the government, as the ministries, has taken a tractor with subsidies, and the same ministry and this government is not responding to it. What he said, indeed, is that with the father-in-law and mother-in-law of the first five-years boards, not only the Tristenik, but the whole Republic, indeed one man who should be ashamed of himself and hides, rather than appearing in the Hall of the Assembly with allegedly some conferences and some attitudes for which there is no evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66090	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66091	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to make an amendment to Mr. Marijan Risticevic. It is true that the state of Serbia and we all know it faces the problem of the gray economy and the problem of informal employment. In particular, unregistered activities significantly harm all interested actors, primarily employees, employers and Serbia's own state. On the one hand, undeclared workers are deprived of basic rights. First of all, I mean health and pension insurance, while on the other hand the state is unable to collect taxes and contributions. Also, law-abiding companies, i.e. The business has a significantly higher operating costs than its competitors and grey zones, so I believe that the adoption and adoption of this bill will contribute to curbing the grey economy, i.e. reducing the work to black or reducing it to the least possible extent, as agency workers have so far been unrecognizable and invisible in the system of labour and legal relations, so that they have been subject to all forms of violations and constitutional and legal rights from work and social security, because they were in the form of black labour. In the end, I believe that, in essence, the adoption and adoption of such a law is the only and best way to solve the mentioned problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66092	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 13. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66093	Unfortunately, this is one of the laws that won't remain a dead letter on paper, and it would be good if it would. One of our colleagues wondered if we now have employment agencies and realized that we do. What does the government do? What are the inspection organs doing? How do we have that? That means someone was doing some activity, doing, at least saying profit, and maybe even extra profit, and he wasn't paying income tax. Where are the state authorities to intervene? Do you remember when a music fountain was built on Slavija and at one point the workers who were hired by the employer made the job stop? Now the problem has been run by the President of the Republic. And he says -- it's not the state's duty to know whether some employer pays the profits or not. There can be an opinion now, but it is up to the state to monitor tax payments and profit contributions, which can also have insight into the payoffs. How is that possible? We'll have more and more cases like that. Now, I could quote and say, well for the roads, no, no, no, don't worry, fellow Members, we're fine, bravo for the roads, bravo for the highways, bravo for the bridges, bravo for the apartments, bravo for everything that's being built, because it opens up but a real possibility and a need for employment. What happens next? Next thing you know, there's a third person showing up who's recalibrating it. How and in what way is he racquetizing? By hiring you to perform these work through these agencies. And I'm telling you that these agencies won't be much. What is interesting is that, in fact, colleague Verica Radeta has already said, in Article 3 when it comes to the conditions necessary to meet the conditions for someone to register the agency and is said to be – that a person, a legal representative, is required to have a level of education that has 240 points, passed a professional exam and space-technical conditions. What will employees have of all that someone will have 240 points or a seventh degree of professional training or a basic study, etc., which will pass that exam, I don't know just who, as it will be, will Mitch Megatrend or somewhere else? Of course, I suppose the Ministry of Labour and Employment will solve this problem in a more serious way when it comes to giving these certificates. Spatial technical conditions. People, what does it all mean to employees, or persons, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia who will be engaged here? And who in their right mind could have something, co-worker, against the Moravia Corridor? (President: Bringing the end, colleague Peric.) I don't have time? Well, no one can normally have that, but the 300 million, you know how much pension it is if the average pension is 25 grand? We've calculated precisely... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66094	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another law passed in order to comply with European legislation. And given what matter this law treats and the real state we have in the field and given what we have in the EU, we can say that this has nothing to do with the European Union. No matter what we think of the EU, and everyone knows what the SRS thinks of the EU, in this part, in the employment, labour rights, labour law, we need to look up to them. However, with us the situation is worse and this law, on this agency employment, will certainly not solve this problem. There have always been temporary employment, temporary and occasional jobs, work on certain times, seasonal jobs, etc. We even had a movie called "Work on Time". But it kind of worked. Today and not only today, lately, in the period when those before you, yellow, have not known who is employed, when employed, as long as they are employed and who are his labour rights. Now we wonder why young people are leaving us, why they're leaving the Republic of Serbia? They go abroad, as they say -- with the belly after bread, while we in some segments, in some of the works, certainly, and that information is correct, we are left without workers and labour. This problem has already been expressed, but this law that is here before us, which we need to bring, certainly is not that capacity to solve it properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66096	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66097	To continue with that article 16, where I left off with my previous amendment to Article 14, since it's about the same law. I was talking about young generations and young people going abroad. They're leaving for the simple reason I can't find an adequate job here. We today, in large numbers of state and public enterprises under the authority of the Republic of Serbia, and in companies that are under the authority of local self-government and within the state authorities themselves, have a large number of people who work, but still do not know how and how they work. It's that famous definition of temporary and occasional business. And as long as it takes, no one knows. We have a situation where people work for nine, ten years. Here, in the school where I work, we have a case that a young colleague of nine is now in his tenth year, working, not even for a certain time, but a clause -- until the call for competition. And the real need for such a frame exists. After him came other people, and they also work for the competition. That is why we advocate that this category be abolished, that the provision that restricts employment in state authorities be abolished, because there is a huge need for work in many actions. We've heard here a hundred times and from the ministers themselves that there are many professions missing, such as various inspectors and, say, here, quite specifically in education, there are a large number of people whose job needs work, who have been doing their job for about seven or eight years and over, but they simply can't get to that job, and many of them have gone too far, I know a lot of such examples, they've raised their hands from everything and gone abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66098	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66099	Thank you. Today, in the assembly home, it has been mentioned twice that we must lead a wise policy in that troubled sea with waves, which is the small Serbian boat. In his address this afternoon, Mr Martinovic elaborated it very nicely and expressed the SNS' stance on the policies of the great forces of America, Russia, China and the EU. Also, our President Vukic said Serbia no longer has children to fight. In the spirit of Pitton's Orthodoxism, I can say the following - we can forgive, but we won't forget and we can't. Now, in that sense, I'm going to say something as a doctor, and I think I'm going to cause the replicas of a part of the opposition that I'm not going to answer because I'm speaking as a humanist doctor. Low cardiosurgery received a genetic laboratory named after the US humanitarian from World War I Douglas Meriveder Doll, which prevented the Bulgarian army from destroying the city of Nis in 1915. A low clinic was given an American military apparatus worth 100,000 euros, which is used to diagnose congenital disorders in patients, such as thrombophylia and for complete tissue typing in transplants, as well as for genetic cancers. In this way, the mortality rate for cardio-patients has been reduced to 2.2% and the overall mortality rate at the Cardiosurgery Clinic in Nis is 1.97%, as well as the waiting list that almost does not exist. In the hardest time for Serbia in 1914 and 1915, Dold replaced the comfort of studying at the prestigious Columbia University by coming to Nis. On November 6th 1915, the Serbian army withdrew after Bulgaria's inclusion in World War I. All foreign missions, except for one U.S. mission, and 25 college students from Colombia organized by him, you know who, Michael Pupin, who was already a famous professor and scientist at the time. The rest of them took care of, as doctors, about a thousand wounded who couldn't pull out of Nis. Along with the German bishop, he stood in front of a Bulgarian army that did not enter Nis with music, but with rifles and bayonets. I quote: “I do not ask you, but I demand that you respect humanitarian law and all conventions and respect this city. ” That's how he protected our great-grandfathers and generations to come, and Nis saved us from the ruins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66100	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66101	I believe that you have seen, Minister Ruzic, since there is no resolute minister, Mr Djordjevic, what was the SRS's intensity when they submitted these amendments, and why they did not understand some colleagues and colleagues when they were involved in the debate over certain amendments of my colleagues. How absolutely against the existence of these agencies, which are unfortunately in many countries where they exist, in the EU countries to which you are called, an exception, rather than a employment rule, have shown numerous abuses in Serbia in the establishment of these agencies and employment of workers. It's not us, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, who need it in such a way, and especially you in power, thanking this law and this kind of employment to further stop at the pain of the workers. If they, most of their union leaders and their associations, the Association of Employers of Serbia, say that this is not a good solution and that the law was created by large-scale capitalists who come to Serbia, who give subsidies, which in this way employ these workers in the most cases, then you should in addition to all these praises, take examples that illustrate exactly what we are talking about. We did not, therefore, want to correct this bill with these amendments, nor to create any other member, not legally or technically, nor essentially. Through these members, we have sought to incorporate the provisions of the Labour Act that should be the basis for the rights of workers in this country. You announced the adoption of a new law in 2021. You missed your entire term to do that. In 2016, Alexander Vukic himself said here, from this pay phone, that it should be a busy job, to see how to hire that number of people, where you have to make some cuts, and you, first of all, have kept your safe votes and by the quotas you have within your coalition, through various contracts, and people have accepted it, employed it in this way. It is not a good time and it is not a good method, nor a message to young people, above all, that regardless of their qualifications, they remain in their country of Serbia, which we all need to love the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66102	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66103	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a law on agency employment. The draft law is amended and reads as follows: “In the event of temporary unemployment, termination of employment, material security as a form of protection is established. The funds for this type of protection shall be provided by employees on the basis of voluntary unemployment insurance." The Serbian Radical Party is against these crazed agencies that are combined with employers, and at the expense of employees. What's the problem with the employer going to the National Employment Service and looking for teachers, doctors, welders and other professions? So these agencies are unnecessary. Since we already have the National Employment Service, why these agencies? We Serbian worked to eliminate all these crazy agencies that became slave owners. Is it possible that you can't lift semi-legal jobs, because you exploit people, like in the time of slavery? The government should accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66104	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66105	We are with the best intention of trying to at least a little bit to find something that might hope for those who expect a job, who should be hired through this law and, believe me, with a lot of effort, we haven't been able to find it. Are we not intelligent enough now, I don't know if that's the problem, but who's going to benefit from this? Of course, they'll own the agencies. It's not a question of anyone starting a new job, starting a business, doing it simply for profit. This is about something else. They'll have a country. Here, Mr. Ruzic, why is the permit issued for the work of such an agency important for five years? If that's all right, that means another company when it registers should be armed at five, why not 15, why not two or an indefinite number of years, and then when that period expires, it would have to apply again. We have a similar situation with the tobacco agency. Those who make and make tobacco cigarettes and products, whether it's retail or wholesale, every two years is obliged to renew that license. Would it not be more appropriate if, once a certain licence or work permit has been issued in this case, it were valid until such time as that agency has been wronged about the applicable legal regulations? Let's just go back to the 300 million. Today, counterpart Martinovic said in the afternoon that money cannot just be given or handed over. A nice statement from the girls, the law school student said, today she published it - when I was a little girl I liked most when I heard that someone wanted to wash money, because her parents and her older uncles kept warning her not to take money into her hands, he's so dirty and he says – when I hear someone laundering money, I'm thrilled. It is clear to everyone, Mr. Martinovic, that this is not given from hand to hand. It goes in a jury, electronic way, in various ways, and later it washes and 300 million, once again, it's a million and 416 thousand pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66106	The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, aside from listening to some reports from you about each other, we have heard no valid argument that in the day of voting someone votes for this law. We have already warned that this will introduce some new kind of slave system. Of course, no one thinks that the workers will be capped into chains and locks, that someone's going to put them in a bucagia, but it's going to be equally difficult, if not to weigh economic bonds. That's a fact. We have warned and it is quite obvious that it is impossible for someone who is hired through the Employment Agency to exercise some trade union or labour rights. That's completely impossible. So someone who's going to go from an employer and won't have a direct relationship with him, such rights will absolutely never come true. Third thing. A large number and state authorities will hire workers in this way and on that basis, and that must be more expensive for the state, and I'll tell you why. Let that worker work for a minimumer tomorrow, that's 30,000 dinars, don't you think the agencies will work for free? He won't. They'll take if 20%, if this much, is as much a percentage. They'll be making money on the back of those workers, so instead of tomorrow some public enterprise or municipality, or any other state body directly pays the worker and paying him the total amount, they'll pay the employment agency, and part of the worker. You, look, here, have been strikein' "Post" workers for days. People who are in the system, in the state system and work dozens, some at 20, 30 years, receive 35,000 dinars of wages and are unable to exercise their rights. Imagine now that someone who is hired by the Post Office tomorrow as a strike breaker to do this job that will not be done by those who are employed in a permanent working relationship because they are on strike, and for God's sake, "Post", must be delivered, how only these people will achieve their union, labour or any other rights. I repeat that these will be the most vulnerable categories of the population with the least-wanted and least-priced skills in the labour market.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66108	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66109	By amendment. So all of this we've heard lately and the last couple of hours has been coming down and going in about the same direction. We criticise this bill think he's in general, in detail, unnecessary, and possibly harmful, possibly harmful. It doesn't matter if a milder or a slightly more difficult formulation was used, but here, let's look at the health-esteemed colleagues. We've got employers, we've got the National Employment Service, so what do I need these agencies for, and what are these agencies for? There's work of course for a certain time, there's work indefinitely and there's work as necessary, like I said, businesses to hire workers. He can do it directly through the competition, he can do it through the National Employment Service. What does this guy's mediators do unless there's some motive to deprive or deprive employees of their rights in some respect, or to get the employer somehow rid of some of the obligations he even has under this restrictive Labour Act, which was here to talk about? That's all it's about. So, we have the need of an employer, if there's an employee to hire, can hire him on a specific, unfortunately, now it's a bang, it's been like that lately, so in the world, for a certain time, temporary-time jobs, one way or another, I say, the National Service. This is in some way legalizing the practice that exists, but we all think it wasn't good. So, in that sense, we've heard a lot of things here, about the roads being built, about the good moves of this government, with or without quotes, a lot of criticism at the expense of some colleagues here absent from the opposition, but that has nothing to do with what's right here on the agenda. As we once again had the opportunity to see the amendments of the ruling coalition's representatives, I watched them here, but I did not want to make a parade, which is like what we used to get packed as parliament by representatives of the European Commission and some other international MPs. Again, we had the practice of an amendment that was fully copied by the bill, a member of a law with a comma or quotes in the end, to get a clagort to speak and criticise, not to say, by someone from the opposition. If anyone has anything to notice a colleague of Alexic and resent him, have him hold a press conference here in the hall, as it is said, today a colleague, Martinovic, does the conference and tells him what he has. So there's no problem with that. But here we now have a re-practice, though not as massive as the previous year, two days, but again to enter phantom amendments, with a decimal, stuck only as an add-on, and then to make that time of five, 10 minutes or two, three of how much use it is in a way that is not appropriate. So, we talk about the law, praise and defend the law, if there is a basis for him to boast, as there have been attempts, and the rest of the praise of wise government policy to criticise some absent opposition representatives leave for press conferences in the Assembly's hall or for your party activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66110	Comrade Vukadinovic, you are choking the freedom of speech in the National Assembly. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today during this debate, today's debate has heard everything and everything. We even heard something that no one could believe, that if Serbia gave up its way to the EU that China could not sell steel, that it would not be able to sell the tyres it produces in Serbia... (President: Mr Mircic's amendment. ) There will be no "Gasprom Neft"... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66112	By amendment of my colleague Mircic. Don't mention what was in the replica, it wasn't in the context of the discussion of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66113	I don't know how to thank your generosity for turning on and pressing the key again. I know it's an intellectual and physical effort, but thank you for this. What's the point of this is that in defense of the bill, it goes to extremes. Neither is the opposition here to show black, nor do those in power need so much to paint it in white. The public needs to be made aware of all the dangers behind this bill. If there is an intermediary between workers and employers, it can always be subject to abuse, and why hide it? Why should those who have defended it rule out such a possibility. There's no reason. We're just here to specify this law. We say, in this Article 20, what is defined would be welcome to these employees at Megatrend if the gromada, called Mica Jovanovic, respected this law, then the professors who were employed at the University were one part protected, would be reported if their employment relationship had stopped. Would it be justified that this gromada, called Mica Jovanovic, has recently noticed that it can be deceived, would it be a facilitating circumstance that is now discriminatory, but I think, if anything, it would at least be protected by his many students, graduates, doctors. Still, they must in some way express their gratitude to the giants who have allowed them to receive their wages. Knowledge is in the other plan, but they've been getting paid for a long time, making personal use of it. So this provision of the law would go in favour of those who not only graduated, but also those who turn over to Megatrend because they would have to report that they had stopped working if they had been rented through the agency, but they are not that level that they can be rented there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66114	Thank you, colleague Mircic, for trying to be on the subject of the agenda. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66115	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the expropriation of Article 22 that I have asked for in this amendment best shows our relationship with this law. It seems to me that by this law or still legal proposal, we're entering a fashion season that we might call an agency. This art is a gift from Europe, and a two-faced Europe that can pay for all its inventions. In this Europe, they were once afraid of communism, Commissioners, Committees, Directives, and today their European authorities are being carried out by the commissioners, only now they don't mind. Europe has launched this, the yellow ones have taken over, and today's owners, not only continued, but promoted and expanded. It's like there's a possession of legislators to agencies. I wasn't trying, and I don't know if I could count everything you voted for, and what's called the agency, whether it's state or para-state. There are almost no ministries that have no agency, no institute, no institute, no fund, no register, no commission, no academy, and similar professional services. Some ministries have a few of these parasites. Let's just take the Ministry of the Interior, where there's a traffic police department, then what's the Transport Committee gonna do, then the Traffic Agency, then the police traffic station in the police departments, then the police department. Please, with all this there is a special Ministry of Traffic. Trying to determine how many real agencies there are in Serbia and how many people they all hire, and what agencies they are, one has earned me special attention, here I am finishing up, and that is, please, listen, the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. Why, then, the Ministry of Justice and finally the question – what will all this do if it costs a lot to the citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66116	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66117	Mr. Chairman, I will try to be on the subject so that for the second time I will try to earn your commendation, but for me it is a success when you are involved in the work and when you can understand this discussion. It's a great success. It's not just a success for you to commend me. I understand your commendation as something that's positive and that's how I go home. In fact, it is always an interest of the employer to employ quality labour with as little cost as possible and that is generally known. We have something here called hiring a labor force through the agency. Through an agency that says in this article that the employer must give instructions and explain the essence of the work, protect the work of workers, his health, as well as those who are constantly employed. What is the intensity in Serbia and what is the intensity where capital is? As few employees and admitted to permanent employment as possible. When it comes to seasonal work, it's about jobs that are mostly in the field of construction operation, agriculture, etc. There's nothing here, but you're not going to read anywhere that according to professional preparation, qualifications, the minimum labour price has to be paid. It's nowhere to be found. So, engineers, economists, lawyers who are engaged in seasonal affairs, they'll work as hard as they're willing to give the employer and how much it's actually willing to pay off. There's no protection of workers' rights. If it comes down to protecting his safety and his health while he's engaged, it's not likely that it's the height of the government's intensity to protect health and safety, he's trying to make up for what the worker knows and what he does in a fair way. There is no knowledge, what the employer does. How's he paying him off? He's paying off the agency. I'm grateful again, but honestly, you've allowed 30 seconds longer to talk. It's a big shift for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66118	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I'm really pleasantly surprised by the quality of your discussion, although I disagree with it. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66119	We are approaching the end of discussions on these amendments, and we need to remind ourselves that you and your coalition partners have all been involved, exploiting workers over the past few years. That the Constitutional Court is not at all deafening the application for an assessment of constitutionality, speaking and submitting an application at the end of 2017, in early 2018, which the "Slog" referred to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, to assess the constitutionality of the Government of Serbia's Regulation on the classification of activity and the Administration was allowed under that regulation, and these agencies, which still exist today, which will only be reregistered under this new law, so that they can carry out work or hire workers and temporary employment. So, this one general uncertainty among employees in Serbia is, above all, absolutely the highest percentage present in these companies that you bring and give them subsidies of over 10,000 euros, but also in public enterprises. In Serbia's Elektroprivred, which is one of the biggest losers in our country, absolutely for no reason, for incompetent leadership, because of you from the government that you suffer and who can't see it all, as well as the oil industry of Serbia, "Serbia gas", "Nikola Tesla" Airport, and so from year to year, these people are temporarily employed, giving in to another company without any legal or security for their future. This is why the SRS is against this law and we will, and by the end of this term, urge this Assembly to insist on improving the rights of employees and of course you have still gone so far as to this government regulation, because many people do not know that you are employed, as it stands in the Labour Act, Mr Minister, in that regulation you called – a worker, and you have called employers – a client. There, so much as it's different, in fact, that you can manipulate people and steal their work through agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66120	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66121	Thank you, Chairman. And through this amendment to Article 28. The proposal for a law on agency employment, the SRS parliamentary group, issued its position on this bill. We believe that this will not improve the position of employees, regardless of what the proposer says in the explanation that it will protect the so-called maximum. Agency employees. Instead of having failed to convince the citizens of Serbia and the opposition's MPs that such a law is being passed in the interests of the employees, it is much simpler to recognise that this law is being adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to bring the work legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with European Union standards. As they wrote at the very beginning of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it was enough to add only that the adoption of this law was identified as a priority in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Government's programme between 2017 and 2019 and the National Programme for the adoption of legal flows of the European Union. For this bill of law quite enough justification, it is clear to everyone now that, in the end, everything we sublime, this law will allow someone to develop a good business on the accidents of unemployed people, because agencies will not work for free, but will temporarily give their services up and charge for it. This is the main difference compared to the National Employment Service. Once again, the adoption of this law does not create a good business environment or an environment for remaining young people to live in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66122	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66123	It's best for the public to explain the examples. An example of a cable confectionery, already mentioned more than once, for example, called "Lir", when renting labor through the agency, the employer sees that the more he saves on the workforce, because the technological process is not something complex, so that the possibility of progress in work and when it comes to receiving is not a big one. You have one ceiling when it comes to receipts ranging from 30 to 40 grand. Forty thousand rarely reach, because there's that other side where the employer introduced and something that could be said free of charge. You have non-fulfilment of labour obligations, you have something that is not very directly related to production, but are clearly interpreted criteria under which these criminal points are expressed, so it is rare that someone with stimulative means and with all receipts comes to these 40,000, but more precisely speaking – and if it reaches, it does not last a long period. When the need for labour ceases, the Agency assumes all obligations. In this article, it is specifically specified that the employer and the Agency are obliged to keep the confidentiality of the data on the employed worker. And you can imagine what kind of progress that is, on the one hand, a satisfied form, European standards, you can't reveal a unique home number of citizens, you can't reveal any more personal data, and on the other hand, cruel reality. This same hired worker worked six months for the lowest labour price and every moment was used, if he stayed longer on the break, if he did not respect certain rules was taken from his salary and it is essentially a law that protects the Agency, the employer and the worker. Now, that's reality and that's how it happens in reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66124	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66125	According to us Serbian radicals, this law is like a prenup. Those who expect that with these laws, first of all I think about those who should get a job, they expect that this law will get something. We must disappoint them that it will not be so. So a hired worker can, you know, be admitted to a working relationship indefinitely, but with the Agency. But be prepared that such contracts with the Agency may be able to be counted on the fingers of one hand. Maybe there won't be any. The user's employer cannot be employed for a certain or indefinite period of time. The fact that after the withdrawal of the work agency’s authorisation, the employed worker may stay with the employer who is the user of his services until the end of the contract, possibly for the longest two months since the withdrawal of the Agency’s work permit, indicates that there will be little benefit for the employees and will almost never be able to turn their employment into a working relationship indefinitely. We are not sure that the state, and once it was affirmed, and we support it, if perhaps even at higher amounts, that the employer has no right to grant so far employed workers, directly employed by the user, i.e. employers, and in this way the employer does not have the right to these subsidies. The agency will also not be entitled to these subsidies, because if someone is hired through the Agency, there will be rapid fluctuations, rapid labour movement. It may be on days, possibly months, and then those subsidies that are foreseen will not benefit, or will not be a big deal, and that would probably contribute greatly to employment. The announced works in the area of infrastructure will certainly leave the possibility, i.e. the need to engage the workforce, but their status in this way will not be resolved in a satisfactory manner, will be resolved in a very bad way. Profit or salary should contain a very small part of the social sector, and the rest should be its contribution to the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66126	National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66127	What we have been saying about the previous amendment is fully applicable here and in Article 33. It says here if an employed employee in the employer gets hurt or his work or health care ability to compensate for giving him an employer. But in case the employer's user for any reason can't pay that compensation, then the Agency can do it on a subsidiary basis. If it had been a serious intention by the legislators of this law to protect rights in such a way as to hire an employee, it would have been prescribed in this article that the Agency and the employer who hired the user would be in full compliance. Since the purpose of the existence of business entities, i.e. companies, is to make profits, perhaps in small and micro-enterprises, in small crafts or other activities, there is also another relationship that has a little more feelings, so the employed worker is experiencing in some way, as perhaps a close friend, here with large companies that may be most likely to have the need to engage these workers there is an exclusive relationship to profit. The employee recognizes it only as someone who needs to finish certain jobs and surely the employer cares about hiring a worker under the most favourable conditions. But that owner of the Agency cares about making as much profit as possible. Who's gonna be the shooting point? Well, of course it'll be hired workers whose rights will be far less than they've ever been. Although there have been many abuses by employers, it does not mean that all employers abuse the recruitment of workers and even many employers respect every provision of the Labour Act, but there are also those who do not respect it. The price of this type of engagement will certainly be paid by employees at a specified time, i.e. those hired through employment agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66128	Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66129	Thank you, Chairman. Here, we have come up with proven provisions where a greater range has been proposed so that depending on the severity of the offence committed and its consequences can make appropriate decisions on the punishment of criminal courts. The company carrying out the remuneration of employees shall be subject to criminal penalties in the tax cases referred to in this Bill and it shall be absolutely logical that they be the final provisions of one draft law. Therefore, the intention is to equalise the rights of employees that those who are employed through the agency can exercise their rights in full scope and in this respect should also be provided for by penalties for the procedures which make it impossible to do so. Since I won't answer again, I want this address to end with the words of Alexander Vukic who opened one today and signed the construction of another highway. "We have made the difference between targeting and connecting, between hate and friendship and work, between violence and elementary decency. Our policy and responsible violence, lynching and drawing targets are work, knowledge and concern about Serbia and citizens. We will try to continue to change for the better and to make progress in every way and in all areas. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66130	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these agencies represent the weakest link in the entire chain starting from the moment of the job, to the achievement of the right, of course, for those who find it. And it's also the most critical place, where there's a concern that these labour rights, what they don't do, and that's why we've had the opportunity to read many times in the papers and in the press, that various agencies have taken our workers there to that one, the other or the third country, that they've left them hanging and that people literally had nothing to go back to. Once again, I will repeat what I have said in all the previous amendments, we need to put out of force as soon as possible, formal and put in place, but what we really need is not to apply the employment provision especially in the public sector, because today we have many particularly young people working formally in some not only agencies, but also working in the state administration, in public enterprises. And when they run out of temporary and occasional jobs, and when they run out of that two-year period, they can't start their working relationship, but at best they can transfer them to another administration, to another public enterprise, and there are a lot of people for whom there is need and a lot of people who have truly proven to be quality, that they can do that job. So this is kind of a kind of mobing over, first of all, to this population of people who can't start a working relationship the way they're lucky these older people are, and this is one of the reasons that reflects both on the most intelligent politics and on people who can't find a permanent job avoiding starting a family and ultimately deciding to leave the country and going after bread. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go. NEMANJA ŠAROVIĆ: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I asked that this member be deleted, and that is the member who regulates that the provisions of this law will be applied at a time when Serbia becomes a full member of the EU and I really am a better joke than this recently I haven't heard, and maybe this is where the Balkan Union should stand. You know, and that's something that's extremely unfavourable for Serbia, but it's quite clear that at least you'd have some chances. You know, to team up with Eddie Ram, with this Kurti and the gentleman of the like, you still have a chance, but the EU has made it perfectly clear that they do not want you there and that Serbia will not be there anytime soon. The only question now is when will you gain the courage to look yourself in the eye first and then to tell the citizens of Serbia – excuse us for 20 years from now. Excuse me, for all those lies we will be in the EU in five years, we will be in the EU in seven years, Serbia will flourish when we become candidates, Serbia will blossom when a chapter opens, and even those who come from the EU say that, as Macron did, this last statement, which he said, so do you think that the lives of Serbian citizens change when you open a chapter. Of course, it does not change, as it has not moved and improved when we have officially become a candidate country for EU membership, when we opened negotiations, when we closed some chapters. You see that it's all still an absolute one colorful lie. The only thing that doesn't change is that whenever you meet one condition, the EU sets up two more new ones. And they're used to whenever they put enough pressure on the leadership of the Republic of Serbia to finally let you down and give everything and what's worst for nothing. This is also the case when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66132	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66133	Of course, Mr Arsic, the fact that representatives of the ruling coalition have given up reporting under this law and amendments, I suppose it is clear to them, too, that this law will not do Serbia's citizens any good, I would like first of all to warn Serbian citizens that those who are under this law hired to work through the agency will be engaged under extremely difficult conditions. That he will never know how much money the agency is getting from the employer, because the contracts will be, you know, the employer, the agency on the one hand concludes a contract with the employer, and on the other hand, on the other hand, whoever rents it. Never will those people who will work for the lowest incomes, not likely, but certainly, will know how much the agency has earned on them. What is an even bigger payout problem is not directly done to the worker by the employer but is paid to the agencies. How many, Mr. Arsic and the other gentlemen who will without remorse vote for this law, how many will be under this law of deceived workers. How long will there be for those who, for months or months or years, will wait to be paid by the agencies with justification, you know, didn't pay us the employer. How many people like that are there going to be? You don't care, Mr. Arsic, it is important that the Law on Public Executors has been passed that he can, as he says, collect judgments he couldn't before, and that the citizens of Serbia are squirming, that these private perpetrators are more notorious today than they used to be Turkish age and escape, you don't care about that. You must make sure that no one lasts until dawn, and neither will yours, and that one day you too will come under the influence of the laws you bring as did those you call yellow thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66134	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66135	Thank you. We are submitting an amendment to a member who says - obliges the minister to, by 31 December 2019, adopt sublegal acts that will define the first place of the agency's use by the end of this year. Imagine what it's like to define what space is going to look like, where it's going to be, and what it's going to contain, and what it's already known to be, it's the cliché that it's working on. You remember when those pyramid savings started, then foreign banks came behind them. What do they have in common? Space, what it looks like. The space is representative, it's scum, it's flashing. Why? Well, to a common man, the average citizen of Serbia gets as confused as possible. If it's possible that it's in the gauges as much space as possible to feel that ordinary man as insignificant, how small he is in that and how large a space, that would be desirable. Then there they wait for him, we assume it will be defined, that he must have graduate lawyers, graduate economists, sociologists, psychologists, it will be all coded, beautifully dressed, who will immediately be confused, unemployed to welcome with words that they know everything about him, that the host is a man, that he is seen in his midst. Why? Well, to pay as little attention and time as possible to what it says in the contract. It all has this psychological effect on an ordinary man. We've made sure of those pyramid savings, the savings, we make sure of the banks. You see how banks look like a representative space, everyone who works there, they're cocky, but it doesn't matter, it's all for the purpose of confusing an ordinary man to pay as little attention to what's vital to him as possible. When a contract breaks up, when a work relationship breaks down, then it follows that it's all in vain, that all these praises, all those superlatives he hears about himself only aim to make the worse he goes through in terms of signing contracts between him and the agency. It's really something that's been seen more than once, they wouldn't want to be painted on the head of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-05-0.u66136	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Friday, December 6, 2019, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2019. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Zarko Obradovic. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 16 of the agenda. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan in 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – one with abstention – there is no, of a total of 138. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 1 which was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one with abstentions—one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on article 6, which was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137, against – one, of the 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of a total of 138. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – one, with abstention – there are no, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 10, which, with correction, have submitted five MPs to the parliamentary group of the Modern Serb Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which have been tabled by five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – one abstention – there are no, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – one, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to article 18, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 33 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 35th vote by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 36 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 40th passed by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 42 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 47, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 51 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 54, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 66, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 69 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 72 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137, v - one, abstention - one, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 138, against - two, abstentions - there are no, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 138, against - two, abstentions - there are no, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 137, v - one, abstention - one, of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 12, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23 tabled by MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 23, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 24, which was submitted by MPs of the People's Parliament, Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which was tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 38, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. I conclude the vote: for - 135, against -one, abstention - one, two out of 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 136, v - two, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the suspension of the validity of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 133, v - two, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law on the termination of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. I am concluding the vote: for - 136, against - no one with abstentions - two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put the draft law to the vote by amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 136, v - two, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 136, v - one, abstention - one, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 1 to be put to the vote by the MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Dejan Radenkovic together. I conclude the vote: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, v – two, of a total of 139. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Keeping and Wearing Goods. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Temporary Regulation and how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service, in principle. It concludes the vote: for – 131 MPs, against – four, with abstention – three, of a total of 139. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which were tabled in the same text by MP Milorad Mircic, with a correction, and five MPs from the parliamentary group of the Party of Modern Serbia. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the amendment to article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, with a correction, and five MPs from the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the amendment to Article 2 submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, v – 5, out of 139. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending the Law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in principle. It concludes the vote: for – 135 MPs, against – two abstentions – there is no, of a total of 139. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – two out of 138. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a bill amending the Law on the salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, in principle. It concludes the vote: for – 133, v – two abstentions – there is no, of a total of 138. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the public sector wage system. I conclude the vote: for – 135, v – two out of 138. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in principle. It concludes the vote: for – 135 against – two abstentions – there is no, of a total of 138. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – two out of 139. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Service Employees, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, v – two, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees, in general. I am concluding the vote: for – 137, two against – one out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Public Service Employees. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft agency employment law to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – two, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 19, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on article 19, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 32 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 34, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 35 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 36, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 40th passed by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 41 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft agency employment law to the vote, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 137, v – two, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on agency employment. We move on to the apparition of the Members of the People's Parliament to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 103(6). Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 29 November, at 13 o'clock and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – none, against – one, of the 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 29 November, at 15 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members are injured. I conclude the decision: no one, against – one, with abstention – has any. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 29 November, at 15 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 107, 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borisav Kovacevic, at a session on 29 November, at 15 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on December 5th, at 13 o'clock, pointed to a 27th member's injury. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 5 December, at 5:00 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against – two, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on December 5th, at 17:00 and three minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
