ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53839	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, which means we have conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session today by Ambassador Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. We're continuing our work. We move on to a search in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Law. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government have been invited to attend, since all members of the Government are authorized to take part in the agenda. Minister Djordjevic and co-workers from the competent ministries are present with us today. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53840	When we talked yesterday about the proposal for a law on the employment of foreigners, as part of an amendment's explanation, we stressed that the programme's definition of the SRS is that conditions for the employment of foreigners and citizens of Serbia should be even and we talked about the case of people who come here to work from Republika Srpska or China, even from other parts. We have now also foreseen in this law that a foreigner who has been granted a visa for stay based on employment, that I do not read everything now, if his business engagement in the Republic of Serbia lasts longer than the period of validity of the longer stay visa, we have asked that the authorisation for entry and stay be made for 90 to 365 days. You didn't accept it, again for the usual reason, which is why you're actually changing the law. You said this was your solution in line with EU regulations, that our proposal is not in line with these regulations, and that is the fundamental difference between you in power and all others in opposition and the SRS, the only one on Serbia's political scene that is absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU. Especially against us harmonizing our regulations with EU regulations, when the EU, or those who are eager to wait for it, is not even on the rifle. So, you, because of these European directives and European regulations, are making it impossible for people from Republika Srpska to, say, come and work here, to be hired, to open their own companies. You're formally allowing them, but if you're going to change every 90 days...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53841	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53842	Mr. Minister, it is necessary to speed up the employment of foreigners in Serbia, especially those who have already shown that through their business entities they contribute to the employment of people, who in certain areas can earn well or at least solidly, but we are against the fact that the state is in any way limiting especially Serbs from Republika Srpska to exercise that right here. You cannot treat Serbs from Republika Srpska as classical foreigners. In 2000, we adopted the Treaty on Special Forces, ratified this Assembly, on special parallel relations with Republika Srpska, and all our compatriots from Republika Srpska should have absolutely the same rights as those who have citizenship and who are constantly resident in Serbia. For what? Because they end their education here and because there are big problems when they run out of time and the length of their stay. Imagine now that the one who's a student from Bijeljina and finished here is the university with the highest grades, whether he's a doctor, an electrician or some other profession, and finds a job, he needs to go to the MIP unit after three months and ask for his stay to be extended or to come out of Serbia and come back if there is no other basis. Many of them, Mr. Djordjevic, pay attention to what I'm about to tell you, engage as a man who takes care of foreign employment, have applied for citizenship. They've been waiting unwarrantedly long and we've been looking for changes to that law for over two years. Is that normal? Anything can be checked. You were also the Secretary of Defense and you know how security services work. It's two to three months, six months tops, to complete the process and get them enrolled in the Citizens' Book. Thus, they will no longer be treated as foreigners, but normally they will be able to work here with all the rights and obligations as citizens of the Republic of Serbia to do what they have been trained for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53843	Thank you very much. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53844	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law, as well as the Law on the Employment of Foreigners was adopted last year, and the reasons for the adoption of these amendments are to speed up the procedure for issuing work permits in the Republic of Serbia. The submission of an authorisation application for temporary stay shall be made possible by electronic means and a single administrative place shall be introduced for the submission of a uniform application for temporary stay and permit for the work of foreigners. The amendment that we have submitted concerns Article 22 of the basic law, and we have proposed adding a new position, which is to say – a foreigner who has been issued a longer stay on the basis of employment is entitled to employment in accordance with the law governing the employment of foreigners and we have specified this intervention that the visa for a longer stay is issued on the basis of employment under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53845	Thank you very much. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53846	Mr. Minister, we, Serbian radicals, have no problem with the conspiracy theory, but we need to stress that many, some with good and some with very specific purposes, are doing Serbia. That is why we have also submitted an amendment to Article 2 to point out the seriousness of this problem, and we propose to verify, on the basis of the results of the assessment by the competent authority at the place of the stranger, the result of an assessment by the national security authority of the Republic of Serbia and all the operational knowledge collected relating to a particular particular person before further consent is issued. The government did not accept the amendment, with an explanation that it was a decadent way to regulate what the MUP would do. We only suggest that we check all the information we get before consent is issued to the person who requested permission to stay, that is, to establish a working relationship. We know it, and you know it well, that at one point and the locksmith was a life-long president of the Serbian state whose biography was not completely clear and clean. Likewise today, much more pronounced than in that period, there is the possibility that some with extreme intentions come to Serbia, allegedly to get a job, and then work against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. You may now consider accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53847	I thank my colleague, Peric. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first glance, this is one standard law that applies in every civilized country and there should be nothing controversial here. Unfortunately, however, the state of Serbia is in a specific situation, where we have a situation for a certain part of our population, our citizens to feel foreign in their country. Against their will they were declared foreigners in their own country, of course it's about our fellow KIM citizens. Not to mention our countrymen from the former Yugoslav republics who are also an enormous number. That's what my colleagues were talking about. Now, when this law was passed, it had to be taken care of by our citizens, but as far as I can see, that is, from the bill of law, it cannot be concluded. We have other absurd situations, we have situations that some of our citizens act as if foreigners are here, or that the state of Serbia is not recognised as its own country. Here is the latest example in Bujanovac, which is de facto and de jure under the control of the state of Serbia, the director of the Cultural Centre in Bujanovac voluntarily prohibits showing the film and the government is not responding, as if nothing had happened. Well, it's really a scandal over scandals, but I haven't heard anyone's reaction to what's going to happen in that regard. Furthermore, in some of our ministries such as the Ministry of Defence we have the offices of the NATO Pact that work here and under what conditions and which is why they are right there, if such an office must exist, and we are in the SRS specifically against it, then it is certainly something that cannot be found in the premises of the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53849	I thank my colleague Saviæ. Do you want to talk to your colleague, Miletic, after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53850	Thank you. I think the proposed laws regarding both employment and foreigners are the right thing to do. The suggestions of my colleagues who have now spoken according to these amendments, I think there is something in one part that is good, but on the other hand, we must trust our organs and our MUP and all those institutions. We all want to give great support to the employment of our people, normally and people who come to the side, because we are witnessing that a lot of companies have now come to Serbia to hire our people, but to have the needs of some of their own, to be with us. So I would support the bill and all these bill proposals, because I think they are positive and good for all our people living in Serbia and for those who come to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53851	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 4th amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Stojanović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53852	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. This is an important law that exists in every civilized country and there is nothing controversial about its changes and additions. However, the government seems unaware that when it comes to the state of Serbia, the situation differs greatly from most other countries. Therefore, this law should not constitute a mere alignment with EU regulations or other regulations. Today, we have a situation where one part of our territory is under the occupation of Cypriot terrorists who have the support of the United States and leading EU countries. This places much emphasis on the situation in which the state of Serbia is located, as our citizens with KIM are in an uninvited position. In order to eliminate all the risks and concerns that can produce the interpretation and application of this law, the power must be very careful when it is adopted. People of the Cypriot nationality with KIM are hostile to the state of Serbia and do not recognise it as their own country. On the other hand, the signing of the Brussels Agreement has led to an unspeakable situation for all citizens of the Serbian nationality living on KIM. The Brussels agreement virtually abolished the constitutional legal position they had until then for all citizens with the KIM who recognise the state of Serbia. The question is to what extent this law will solve the problems that are causing its changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53853	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53854	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not very clear on what took two laws on the subject of foreigners. Yesterday's law we talked about, the Law on the Employment of Foreigners and today's Foreigners Act, which was adopted in 2012, and now the Proposer of Proposed Amendments and Supplements wants to speed up and facilitate the procedure for issuing work permits in order to obtain a legal basis for their business engagement and stay in our country. The amendments propose to establish criteria for determining different categories of foreigners within six months, as well as conditions for approving their temporary stay. My amendment intervention concerns granting a temporary stay permit and on what grounds it is given. Article 4 of the existing Article 40(1) sets out the grounds for obtaining these licences. I asked for an amendment to item 14 that should read - other justified reasons under the law, including waiting for a decision on a request to obtain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. In addition to all these grounds for staying foreigners, the SRS considers it a valid reason to include this waiting decision on a request for our citizenship. The adoption of this amendment is also important because of the large number of our countrymen who are on the list to seek our citizenship. The proposed amendments and additions provide for the removal of the list of states for which it is necessary to obtain prior consent for the issue of a visa, but whether the state for the prior consent given by the MUP will succeed in providing valid evaluations by competent authorities related to a very turbulent political, security and any other situation in society and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53855	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is to confirm the government's wish that the parties electronically request an extension of their stay in our country. I'm going to ask the government and all of us. You certainly know who Dragan Solak is. That's the man who bought the citizenship of Malta. Is he supposed to report staying this way? He probably made a combination again, like the SBB. So, SBB cable operator, owned by Solak, David Petreus, former CIA chief and military commander in Afghanistan and their business partner Dragan Gilas, are broadcasting on SBB domestic channels registered in REM. These channels pay advertising taxes in this country and pay broadcasting fees. Also, SSB broadcasts so-called. cross-border channels, i.e. re-emission, remember re-emissions, domestic channels are broadcast, and foreign cross-border re-emissions and they are not subject to taxes, nor registrations in this country. But miraculously, some channels that broadcast the programme from Serbia have appeared among the cross-border channels, meaning, which have avoided registering in REM, which are pirate channels, which thus threaten those legal channels by broadcasting domestic advertising, thus not paying the advertising tax, nor paying the broadcasting fee. Among such channels are 13 SK channels, sports channels, there are N1 television and some other TVs, which are essentially domestic ones that have avoided registration and pretend to re-emission even though they are recasting, signals are not broadcast across the border at all. So the basic question is, how long are we going to tolerate all of this? I'm grateful to N1 television, who tried to insult my smallness this morning, for the attention they gave me. But my question is: when will the N1 television, which broadcasts the programme from Belgrade, register as electronic media in REM and when will it start paying broadcasting fees, as all domestic televisions do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53857	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SRS want and insist that all have equal treatment when it comes to this Foreign Law. You will see that in the agenda points you already have a difference when it comes to the status of individual foreigners. The law that we are now discussing, amendments and additions has defined how and how a stranger submits a request for stay, for work and for citizenship. In item 5 of the agenda, which also refers to the signing of the Agreement with the PROPARCO Development Agency, the French Agency, you will see that in this Agreement the parties to the persons involved in this Development Agency are always under the assumption that they are seeking treatment as diplomats, all employees. So whoever works at this agency, and he came from France, abroad, he's going to have special treatment, he's going to have a diplomat's treatment. They are even looking for exceptions, they cannot be given customs insight into the things they adopt, they are not subject to Serbian law, they are not paying taxes to Serbia, speedily, or in the shortest, shortest procedure, they are granted an extension of their stay, etc. On the other hand, we have our compatriots who are from Republika Srpska, formally from BiH, who are subject to all the treatments provided for by this law and the addition of the law. They have to come out of the Republic of Serbia, to wait for a certain time in order not to exceed that maximum period of stay here in Serbia, which is almost impossible anyway, and we urge that this be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53859	Thank you, colleague Mircic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law essentially comes down to the removal in terms of the introduction of electronic applications even from abroad and the regulation of special ID cards for foreigners, such as diplomatic, official, consular and service ID cards, as well as other forms which are in the function of facilitating the regulation of temporary stay based on employment. The dilemma remains whether these changes and additions must be specified in detail in the documents of the party. The proposed SRS amendment in Article 16, Article 124(2) of the existing law is amended and reads – the government will, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, in the event of any circumstances relating to the illegal presence of a number of foreign nationals in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which cannot be returned to the country of origin due to the application of the principle of non-return. The length of their tolerated presence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia should be specified. It is good that the state has entered the view that a foreigner in our country may only stay in accordance with the purpose for which the right is given, means a visa to stay in our country, but the state should do its part of the job and that this provision is being consistently implemented but that the parties who are given trust and the right to work act in the spirit of good interstate business relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53861	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53862	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about the categorization of foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the former state of Yugoslavia can be called the Memorial of the Serb people. Those who broke the former Yugoslavia, but I claimed that, with political and economic reforms, it was possible, but the outside had strong influences to break it. The intention of those who have broken the former state to divide the Yugoslav peoples and to conflict, to war against each other, is that the intentions of the outside are often supported from within, sometimes by the former nations, but now that intensity goes to the Serbs to be divided, to conflict with each other. In particular, it is expressed in Montenegro, for God's sake and in Macedonia, has intentions such as Rada Trajkovic for Serbs to be divided in Kosovo and Metohija, where they certainly cannot share a bit. There are these intentions, and we have to take care of it, because many of these Serbs are now considered foreigners. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, this Assembly and all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia must Serbs via Drina, Serbs in Montenegro, that Serbs in Macedonia and Serbs in Serbia in the province of KiM are particularly treated. So they must not allow themselves to be treated in the Republic of Serbia as foreigners. It is our people and I believe that when Serbia comes out of trouble, when we unite under our flag, when we put economic Serbia on our feet, everyone else will start to respect us. I believe that one day we will unite through an alliance and that the Serbian people will once again be in one state or in one alliance of states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53863	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point of the daily – Proposal for a Law amending the law on the management of the airport You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Natasa Jovanovic, Nikola Savić, Ružica Nikolic and Marijan Rističević. You also received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53864	Now, today, Zorana Mihajlovic was necessary to us, we had something to say to her, but we'll order through Mr. Djordjevic. When it comes to this bill, again we have what we cannot accept, you change the law because it is in line with EU legislation, I quote -- one of the priorities of the EU accession process. Has anyone told you that every day an increasingly open and growing number of EU officials say – we can discuss Serbia's EU accession if you recognise the state of Kosovo, the false state of Kosovo? So that's the condition of all the conditions and you intend to fool yourself whether the airport will be called the Belgrade airport or the Belgrade airport, whether the headquarters will be in Belgrade or Nis. Total nonsense. You plan on taking the European path, people, it'll take Kosovo away from us, you'll be late. We'll all be, unfortunately, too late. When it comes to this law, we have asked from here as a parliamentary question of the president of the state to tell us whether Zorana Mihajlovic led him astray when she persuaded him to say that 8.5m euros would be given to an extension of the airport runway at the airport in Lađevci, because the runway allegedly is not suitable for landing a "boing", which is an absolute lie, because according to the official prospectus of "boing" this runway in Lađevci is 10.19m wider than it is needed to land and land "boing" on that runway. So again, you're playing with money from the budget, as far as it comes to mind, imagine the eight million euros you're going to invest in the Boats, that you've given to the King, that you've given for the development of agriculture in the Kingdom. No, you're playing it on your mind and, by the way, this airport is open in 2011, and you're just confirming it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53865	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53866	Thank you, Chairman. I must point out the satisfaction of speaking during your re-chairing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected -- Article 1 is deleted, for all of those reasons that the Serbian Government has delivered to Members of Parliament in the form of opinions. So I'm totally in agreement with that argument. What bothers me especially is that the amendment comes from MPs of the parliamentary group, to be honest, I am not even sure which MP group these MPs belong to anymore, whether they have returned to the DS, whether they are with Gilas in the Alliance for Serbia, but it is not particularly important. The important thing is they're not here. And I can't help asking – so where is Marko Djurisic, who submitted this amendment, where is he to defend his amendment? Where's Miroslav Aleksic? What more important work has Miroslav Aleksic had today than to come here to the National Assembly to defend his amendment? Where's Nenad Konstantinovic? Where's Goran Bogdanovic? Where's Zdravko Stankovic? So where are they today to defend their amendments, very smart amendments, epochal amendments that read – Article 1 is deleted. Those are their amendments. Apparently, they're boycotting the Assembly, they've got better things to do. But what's worrying and what's very dangerous, is that in some press today, it appears that these same representatives of this Alliance for Serbia are making some lists, a list of shootings, lists of unspeakable people, which they will, tomorrow, imagine, if they come to power, lustrate or ban the work. So it's a "Serbian Telegraph", which owns a certain list, over 100 public figures. There are analysts and singers and actors and leaders and journalists. They've all counted this beautifully as a list of indecipherable people they'll ban tomorrow, lustrate and ban their work. If we consider that the other day they made a death certificate for Bora Corba, then we can imagine what kind of people we're dealing with here. I will remind the public that similar lists were made during the HDZ government in Croatia in the early 1990s, the lists of unspeakable Serbs, and we know what produced them afterwards. Then they get angry and then they have something to resent when we charge them with fascist methods. So if this isn't a fascist method, I don't know what a fascist method is. Making lists of undesirables, unsuitable ones, that's what the Alliance for Serbia does, and that's why they're not in the session today where they're supposed to defend their amendments, but they're making lists that they'll ban tomorrow, lists of people they'll ban from working on. This has been unrecorded so far in Serbia's political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53867	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53868	We asked, Mr. Djordjevic, respected fellow MPs, with this amendment that the Serbian government make a really serious plan for the development of the airport, especially these so-called. Small airports such as Morava Airport, perhaps in the future Ponikva Airport, that's all on the long stick regarding the "Ponika" and this is why. The cost-effectiveness of these airports is the biggest problem and their commercialisation. Serbia's airport management itself will not be able to do so, Mr. Djordjevic, without the help of the state. That's what you've got all over Europe, so if you want the world, how and how to reach these potential passengers. We know the Morava airport well from the moment it was built, and even now my sister and closest relatives are reporting to me, because our family house, which is a mile away from that airport, is in a bulge and growing place. One thing's for sure, 28, after he said so, will open that airport. But he does not, as the colleague said, need a new runway, this one is absolutely enough and absolutely according to all standards and for "boyings", although it is planned to initially only ATR 72 and other aircraft from there take off. Do you have a plan, since the president of the state will be there and he'll take someone else to keep him company on Vidovdan, how will that airport continue to develop? Do you think just opening the airport is enough for him to show his profitability? Well, it's not. If 750,000 or 800,000 people gravitate from all municipalities 30 to 100km to Morava Airport, then the state must, as the SRS requires, make this amendment a national development plan for each of these airports.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53869	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have requested by amendment that the company that operates the operations at the airport may change its seat. I have further asked to specify who and under what conditions these decisions are made, but as far as I can see, the government has not adopted this amendment. In the principle debate, we heard from Minister Mihajlovic that the seat of this society will be in Nis, which is the essence of what I asked for with the amendment. But I, as a Nishi, of course rejoices that the seat of such a society will be in Nis. Speaking of the airport, we've all heard the government announces that 12 new lines from the airport will open. However, some independent analyses also say that there are several other lines that are announced by the government that will be commercially profitable in any case, and these are lines from Nis to Paris, Moscow and Istanbul. As Nischli, I know, and many Nishli know that there is a need for another line from Nis, which is from Nis to Malta. In fact, of the total number of Serb populations living in Malta, which is not a very negligible number, there are many that are not registered, more than half of them are from Nis. Although, for some other destinations towards Germany, Italy, Turkey, etc., there is some alternative possibility of being transported either by car, by line or off-line transport, Malta as an isolated island in the Mediterranean Sea is certainly interesting for each carrier. So I would urge people from the government to think about introducing a line from Nis to Malta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53871	Thank you. Comrade Miletic, would you like to make an amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53872	Thank you. The same thing as the predecessor who came forward, I think that about the formation of this company, for everything the Serbian government did, for the period 2014 and over here, specifically for the airport, there was an expansion of traffic, a large number of passengers, and it was a real move that the state of Serbia took to manage the airport. In this way, it will now be the headquarters of this company, that is, what the government has now formed. Otherwise, the development of this airport of ours and all that is done, it is a great opportunity for the development of southeastern Serbia, for the development of Nis and Srlig and all the surrounding municipalities, because a really large number of people reach Nis, through the airport, comes to our small municipalities, visits our beautiful destinations, because every part of our territory in southeastern Serbia is the most beautiful, beautiful thing. So I will support this law, too, but I think the government is right about everything she said and what this is about, and the president of Serbia, because we are witnessing that without a state, I am sure, we will not have the opportunity to develop all that is necessary for the development of southeast Serbia. Thank you again to the Government, thank you and to the President, but on the other hand, I thank Minister Zorani, for speaking back a few years, about the development of the airport, about the development of the railway, about the development of all the things that are important for Serbia's development, and now I can finally say that and finally praise both the railway Serbia and all of you, as well as the reconstruction of the railway from Nis, Knjižvec towards Zajecar. Thank you all, because I think that's the only way we're going to develop the southeast of Serbia, a strong traffic station, a strong infrastructure, that's the development of everything in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53873	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53874	I thank the chairman. I'll just take a moment, and here's my colleague, Milija Miletic, who's always talking about the airport in Nis, so I can say something. I would like to point out that it is very important for this city and for that part of Serbia that the state has invested so much in modernising and in the technical equipment of the airport. Also, it's important for the Nislims that the seat will be right in Nis. We are aware of how much effort has been made to increase the number of passengers. This is one of the evidence that the Serbian government respects the need to develop the south. For the first time, the South is in the focus of development just as it was just a few years ago and has promised Alexander Vukic. So, not just new factories and new jobs, we now have an airport where we can be proud and when we say Nis, we can consider that we are talking about a symbol of development. Of course, an impressive number of half a million passengers to an airport that was only a few years ago not in office. That certainly means a lot to the city of Nis and that part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53875	Thank you. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53876	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian government has established an "Serbian Airports" company, which is the main task of managing airports and has adopted plans, which require the necessary airport facilities needed for civilian traffic from the military to return to the state. The airport in Brodjevci, near Kraljev, is due by the end of June of this year to be trained for the launch of passenger traffic. I would remind you that the story of the conversion of the Ladjevci military airport to the military-civil airport began in September 2010, when the government adopted an investment programme to train this airport to transport passengers and things, and then something over 112 million dinars was spent. The following year, 694 million dinars were allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the first civilian plane landed at Morava airport that year, bringing then Serbian President Boris Tadic and Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. The following year, a promise fell that the airport would be in service for civilian flights and a new 248 million dinars were spent in 2012. In November 2013, the Serbian government adopted a report on the realisation of the investment programme to train this airport again, and instead of the original 2.3 billion dinars for training, 3.8 billion and 34m euros were necessary. By the way, the opening of this airport has been announced dozens of times and an 8.5m euros has been invested in the adaptation of part of the military airport for civilian flights. That airport, and now... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53877	Thank you, colleague. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished viewers, I don't need to convince anyone that in 2012, we found an abandoned and abandoned state, as well as airports. So, I expect that in the next period, Nikola Tesla Airport has reached five million passengers as far as I know, in the next period I expect it to be double, to be ten million passengers. Now just imagine each of them spending 500 euros in our country. That's a five-billion-dollar income. I trust not only at the airport "Nikola Tesla", but also at airports such as Ships, Nis, Batajnica and others that can make such an infrastructure that is suitable for business development along the highway network. So when someone comes into our country to immediately land, when they travel by car, they see that they are favourable opportunities and that this beautiful, fertile country, valuable people, and that they are worth investing in. I also think that we have to develop despite airports and hotel facilities which are close to the airport, which is on tourist destinations, which is near highways because I do not believe that in the future we will be able to have hotel accommodation as much as Serbia will be a favourable destination for the development of tourism. That is why I urge that in each segment we help the Republic of Serbia and not do what these October ones do. Dragan Gilas bought another firm, a political party, he forgot not to go green from yellow. Turns out, the green one goes yellow, and I believe that he and Bostic, that's the one that went from this symbol to Gilas to this. I expect them to be October because they do not respond politically to me, they do not respond to the citizens of Serbia, because they are against everything. They are against an airport in Belgrade, they are against the airport in Nis, against the airport in Brodjevci, they are against "Beograda na Voda", they are against the fountain, they are against the Square of the Republic, they are against everything that brings the development of the Republic of Serbia. They want nothing to change but the authorities, or to sit until they sit down with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53879	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53880	Well, here's colleague Risticevic, one brief explanation about the Shipman Airport. Since I was and was in charge of the defence minister, I know what was going on there and I have one question I never got an answer on, how and on what basis Dragan Sutanovac, along with Mladjan Dinkic, invested the money from the sale to Grosnice in a civilian airport, and he transferred that military money overnight and invested in something that the military had no knowledge of happening. In order for the airport to become mixed he must have certain conditions and that is the extra money that needs to be invested now, which is to create conditions that combat planes do not stand on the runway, that civil flights can not happen unhindered and are not threatened. That's why it's being real, it's not expanding the runway, it's making conditions for that airport to get permission to be a mixed airport. What matters to us as citizens of Serbia is that we are proud of the fact that Serbia has received the third international airport that we are going forward, building highways, and theirs is that they do nothing, strike, boycott, but it speaks more of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53881	Thank you. My friend Miletić, you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53882	Thank you. I would also support my colleague, Marian, about these very things he said, about all these airports that I can put into office tomorrow. I would once again underline and say, Constantin the Great, which was almost owned by the city of Nis, is now owned by the Republic of Serbia and this is something that really has an expansion of development, a large number of passengers, a large number of people who come to Nis, come to our small municipalities and come to the Old Mountain. It's a pearl of tourism, a pearl of what's really worth it to us. I would once again invite all the people who weren't in Nis, who are watching this Assembly now, to get to Nis, to go all the way to the Old Mountain together and come to try quality products from Svrljig, Književci, White Palanka, Piroth and all those beautiful municipalities. Once again, I will support the proposals of all these laws, because by developing infrastructure, traffic, road infrastructure, railways, it is the development of the southeast of Serbia, and thus the development of the Republic of Serbia. The development of our villages, small municipalities, agriculture, the development of everything in southeastern Serbia is the development of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of all these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53883	I thank my colleague Miletic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53884	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the ministry, honored Members of the People's Parliament, I will rely on the discussion of the MPs coming from Nis, but I will speak a little more specifically, not in general. The change in the headquarters of the airport company in Serbia, says how much my city of Nis has the support of the state. We've got an old line to Malme from a few days ago. Right now, after ten destinations, where the planes from Nis fly, and since July, when the tourist season is, we'll have 12 more lines. We should be proud that Nis Mayor Darko Bulatovic, who is currently visiting the Republic of China with Serbian President Mr. Vukic, pointed out. So, the only mayor who's with Mr. President Vukic is currently in China. To be proud that we have a flight to Vienna, Budapest, Rome, to Berlin, and I hope that some other metropolis will be visited by plane from the city of Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53885	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Planning and Construction Laws You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Dr Aleksandar Martinović, Dragan Kostic, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Ružica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Aleksandar Seselj, Nikola Savic, Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojić, Miljan Damjanović, Bozidar Delić, Petar Jojic, Zoran Despotović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Momcilo Mandić, Milorad Mirčić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Marina Ristić, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Filip Stojanović and Nemanja Sarović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53886	If Zorana Mihajlovic had not made a single failure in her work, just because of this bill, she would have to be relieved of the minister's post at this time. This is indeed a scandal with this bill and other proposals it was supposed to represent here, in fact Zorana Mihajlovic shows that she is openly working against the state and against the government. How else to interpret the fact that this Law on Planning and Construction, which implies legalisation, among other illegal objects, has changed 11 times, eight times since Zorana was minister. We only remember her campional performances here every time, this law is now passed, now that it's in effect, this will be, it will be. What's the matter? There was nothing. When we warned her that local self-government in Belgrade should not return legalisation to the city of Belgrade, she says we do not tolerate radicals, and then we have an objection to the law. What's the matter? It's been two years, and no procedure like that is over. It's back to the municipalities last year, and still the municipalities haven't received any items from the City Hall. So this is really a scandal over scandals. Zorana Mihajlovic does not want illegal facilities legalized in Serbia. Zorana Mihajlovic thus creates the wrath of the people against the state, against the government, and you see, you are the government right now. Zorana Mihajlovic can't do her job anymore because she doesn't know how to do it. I really don't know what's going on with this people who worked in that ministry. I know she cleaned up her ministry last or last year, so she drove out almost all the people who know how to work, obviously she didn't leave anyone who could distract her that she couldn't do it this way. If they want to legalize objects, then it has to be simplified by law, clearly, and that indeed anyone who wants to do so can do so. But, of course, you are suffering something that is not normal, to the detriment of citizens, and we are telling citizens, as long as Zorana is Minister, you will not legalize objects. Why? Because Zorana won't, because she wants to be as poor as possible in Serbia, because she supports inspectors who cheat on the ground, who take money, who bring under the grains to solve certain items. You know, it's a public secret in Belgrade that under 10,000 euros you can't legalize the house. Then people like not to get a call, where to give 10,000 euros, but that 10,000 euros is not legalisation, it's someone's pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53887	The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53888	What kind of minister is Zorana Mihajlovic, when we have the eighth amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction. She, not that she wasn't capable of predicting all these situations, but she was tendingly working to get to the fullest of chaos. After all, you've seen the whole disaster situation, you've seen its reasons for a variety of extensions with exceptions to legalization, and now in this article that we're asking to delete in the amendment of a member of the basic law, article 69, she suggests that the investor make a statement before obtaining the permission to resolve all property-legal relations. You know when they're going to get a useful license, in one 15, 20 years, which is on average 17 years, because this is about the special formation of parcels. When said, these are cases of the formation of a building plot, where it is of general interest, the interest of the state, units of local self-government to build certain infrastructure facilities. You'll be in a position to make a decision, to expropriate certain land. Here now you have a continuation of construction, you have promised it for 10 years and said Vukic - it will finally connect Kragujevac to the highway, i.e. these six more kilometers from Batocina to be made and there you have to perform certain expropriations. You'll do it, but after who knows how many years people will get slow, those who are unhappy, because they have to, they won't all be happy to sue the state. And then how is it normal for this kind of change and the addition of the law to come? She deliberately, a colleague, says, is holding back all these processes that can be very easy to bring into legal flows, to simplify the procedure, to be satisfied with both citizens and investors, but you don't have a normal minister to make a normal proposal on the law on planning and construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53889	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53890	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments and additions to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction will not produce any effect and it is necessary to pass a completely new law that will be applicable. I'd like to remind the public of some facts relating to Corridor 10, and I'd like to ask a few questions about that. Despite government officials' promises, Corridor 10 was not completed by the end of last year. Instead, new promises to be completed by the middle of this year came in late April, according to Minister Mihajlovic, the highway through Gredel will be ready to go into work. The hill on the disputed stake in the Grdelička gorge from which the support wall collapsed has become an insurmountable obstacle in the previous year and authorities argue that the damage, estimated at 3m euros, will be paid by the contractor of the "Azvi" works. The Spanish firm, meanwhile, has set out its account and is asking the state to pay 14.3m euros in compensation, due to delays on the stake, which they claim are not responsible. So, while the public is waiting for answers to questions about who will pay for the damage, whether citizens or contractors, "Asvi" has, meanwhile, submitted damage claims to the state-owned business of Corridora of Serbia, and according to the data "Azvi" requires a total compensation of 14.3m euros due to a 1,330-day delay. Also, in the case of the Predejani tunnel, the performer, for example, asked for 14.2m euros in compensation, but was eventually recognised 2.8m euros, so I would ask you who will eventually pay this compensation and will this cost go to the citizens' expense?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53891	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53892	My distinguished colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party who took a brief look at what Zorana Mihajlovic did are absolutely right, but is not the only one to blame for these problems only Zorana Mihajlovic, but certainly Ana Brnabic, as Prime Minister. Mr. Djordjevic, and you're guilty, you're a member of the government, you're not just a minister of labour, martial arts and employment. It seems to me that very often these laws change because of the European Union's desire and needs, 11 times during the term of office of Mrs Mihajlovic, it is indeed excessive. But here, you see, and now she has announced that we need to change the law, allegedly to be a little more practical in the area of construction, so it's said - property-legal relations will be resolved until the use of the permit is granted. And what does that mean? We have one of the best examples of a capital facility in question - the construction of a bridge on the Drina, popularly called "Bratholjub". It was built officially and opened in 2017. I remember when the height of the difference between the bridge and the access road from Republika Srpska, so on the left side of the river Drina, was four metres, and at the time the President of the Republic, Milorad Dodik, was supposed to raise Mrs. Zeljko Cvianovic on the side of the river Drina so that she could step up somewhere in the middle of the bridge, approximately, to meet two delegations, the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. Bridge open, he's not even in office today. Perhaps this is what my colleague Milija Miletić from Srljig thinks it really is, because it says here - waiting for the border crossing, the bridge open, and people living in Ljubija and the surrounding area know it's not so. When are we going to start finishing some things? Zorana Mihajlovic, not only is she not an expert, she shows a final dose of obnoxiousness for everything she starts to do and doesn't lead to the end. Huge funds have been invested to build the bridge and the bridge is not the only investment that the state of Serbia has started or invested large funds without ultimately obtaining its useful value. How long till things end in half? It is not true that Serbian radicals have something against Zorana Mihajlovic as women, just a matter of work, we have against those who are incompetent, who do not work in the interests of Serbian citizens, and they must, that is their task. Besides, that's why the citizens of Serbia have shown confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53893	The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one complex matter in which problems date back, let's say from a long time ago, from communist times, when there was a sudden industrialization of our country and when our cities began to spread. All authorities have since tried to bring order into this area, but what the current government is doing, or current Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, is really beyond anything that should not be done in this area. Here, we heard today from our colleagues here that this is the eighth time for Zorana Mihajlovic's mandate to change this law, but unfortunately, there are no visible shifts. In our cities, larger cities, there is still an urban chaos, and if it has come anywhere, there have been some shifts in the periphery of cities and these poverty settlements where people with lower incomes live, in the centers of our cities, especially larger cities today have chaos. For what? We have a situation to spread or narrow the city's core, where there are older houses, family houses, that these houses are being torn down, some investor buys a few houses, two, three, five, or already for what, builds a building and then the government makes chaos, for the simple reason that there are no more other accompanying municipal infrastructures, no parking and no more. And worst of all, let's say there's some order in this mess, but in one part this building of three floors because it managed to unite three plots and buy, in the other part next to it, the other investor managed to buy five houses, tear them down, and make a house of seven floors, and I say, really, these are the things that have to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53895	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53896	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, I must say that all these motions of the law from Mrs. Mihajlović's portfolio resemble the very proposing, which means that there is a desire to make things clear, clear, efficient, advanced, transparent, etc., however, it is not so. All of these laws suffer from the same weaknesses in terms of – we've run a little bit, we're in a hurry and now we're correcting our own mistakes through the proposed changes and additions. It is better to admit that something because of the complexity, it is reportedly not best regulated, so do a whole new, comprehensive law, but also admit it indirectly through changes and complements with a subsequently called mind. In the light of my amendment, I have stated that it is astounding how many failures there are in the laws so far, which is very clear from the proposed changes and additions. In this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, more than 100 members were intervened, but this did not interfere with the Proposer to write in a statement of praise that the law contributed to a more efficient, faster, cheaper and more transparent situation in this area. However, a lot of praised law has arrived for service in just three years. Now it is also mentioned the change of concepts in some solutions, because some shortcomings are manifested even though adjustments have been made, alignments, harmonisations with the EU and international standards, it is obvious that someone has ignored our mentality and has brought something to our practice and it is very superficial, incomplete and incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53897	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Damjanovic, ask for your word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53898	Thank you. The Construction and Planning Act can be seen as being announced as a kind of revolution in Serbia at a large door, i.e. the amendments to the Construction and Planning Act in 2014. At that time, Zorana Mihajlovic said that it is expected that all problems in the construction industry and the whole economy of Serbia will be resolved by applying the law as of mid-2015. It reminded me of those words of hers when she also loudly and thunderously announced that all the illegalized objects in Serbia would be legalised by that law, which she was doing the same at the time, no later than December 2015. At that time, it was said that the first task was to resolve 700,000 illegal objects in Belgrade and that these laws proposed and adopted by its ministry were the shortest possible deadline and period needed to resolve the historic process, as the legalisation process in Serbia in Belgrade has not been resolved after 20 and more years. In Serbia alone, such a minister remains a minister and unfortunately progresses in his political career and becomes deputy prime minister. But the splinter does not fall far from the stake also tells the fact that in 2014, when the amendment and addition of this law was announced, the chairman of the NAED Management Board was Ana Brnabic. At that time, commenting on this law, she said it was one of the most important regulations for the economy and conditions for the prosperity of the construction industry, and then Mrs. Ana Brnabic said that other ministries should look to the ministry run by Zorana Mihajlovic. I would remind you that in a media campaign since the time of the law, this law was implemented in 2015, somewhere in July, the unannounced Zorana Mihajlovic visited cities across Serbia. At that time, it seems to me to be around 20-25 July, visiting the Kingdom, and informing the citizens of Serbia that this law lives, that building permits are obtained within the legal deadline, and then reminded once again that the other laws from its portfolio that follow these laws that it has proposed and how to revive and all problems are solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53899	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53900	Today four or five years later of the Law on Construction and Planning, the Law on Legalization left only a dead letter on paper and this law will experience fiasco and every law... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53901	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jojić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53902	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Ministers and Government representatives, when it comes to this portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and problems in the area of construction, the direct guilt and responsibility are borne by that and the resolution minister. When you look at the number of pending cases regarding legalisation and legislation, it is quite logical that the minister should resign or be removed. For such a situation in the area of construction, in any case the biggest problem in Serbia is corruption. The government must fight against it. When it comes to Mrs. Mihajlovic, as a resolute minister, I must charge her with why she punished 15 thousand Pančevs in relation to not using "Beovoza", because the line "Beovoza" from Pančevo to Belgrade, i.e. from Belgrade to Pančev, but it goes from Lazarec only to Belgrade and to Krnjaca and Ovce. A 42m-euro Russian loan was invested in the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Pancevo railway and as Mrs. Mihajlovic arrived, "Beovoz" was abolished and punished 15 000 citizens using Beovoz and who have been using it for years, and this is about students, students and workers. Therefore, Mrs. Mihajlovic has responsibility for Corridor 11 because it has been announced five times that the corridor will be released until the Pojat. Three or four times has been announced, and the problems in the construction of the highway in that part are great, but there are no responsibilities. Therefore, we believe that Mrs Mihajlovic is either resigning or being relieved. Take a look at Serbian mountains and national parks, such as "The Wild West". It works for whoever it wants and wherever it wants, but the Resorving Ministry doesn't react or react to competent inspections. So, who's in charge of the state resources? Mihajlović. She's responsible and she would have to resign or be relieved. There are about a million cases pending. There were 33,000 complaints in her drawers waiting for them to be resolved in the second degree, and the citizens suffered great damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53903	Thank you. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53904	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the latest amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act was adopted in December 2018, and since 2009, it has suffered as much as 11 amendments and additions. The Serbian Radical Party demands that if a third of the laws are amended, the whole law should be amended by all rules, i.e. to bring a new one. Amendments and additions to the law must be accompanied by rules and sublaws, as the proposed law is not specified and is not precise. The concrete objections concern Article 69 and Article 9 of the proposed law, where statements by the investor are said to resolve immovable property-legal relations prior to the issue of the use of the permit. I don't think that's a solution, because if an investor can't handle property-legal relations within a reasonable period of time, specifically on one part of the building's path, let's say a road, a pipeline, a pipeline and something like that. When it comes to the Chamber of Engineering, which has been issuing licences for years, it has been modified by last year, and that role has been taken over by the Ministry, which does not have the necessary professional staff and capable of carrying out this complex work. We see that this change announces the formation of some sections, which is contrary to the principles on which Serbia's Engineering Chamber is based. If the problem is some individuals who decide in the Engineering Chamber, then it needs to be resolved personally, not that the complete Engineering Chamber comes down to the Institute of the Association of Citizens. For example, we have countries in the environment that supported Serbia's Engineering Chamber on 13 April 2019, held a meeting in Sofia, Bulgaria, where it is said to quote -- an engineering initiative for regional co-operation considers an unsustainable solution that the position of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering comes down to the citizens' institute, because it is the task and fate of the engineering chambers to protect the social interest and responsibility of the engineering profession in their function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53905	Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ljubenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53906	Thank you. When it comes to a law that is of paramount importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group insists on a higher level of seriousness, which is why we have submitted the amendment to Article 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. We have suggested erasing Article 13, because we are amazed at how many failures there are in the current law, which we have seen from the proposed changes and additions. That's why our position is to apply to the MPs of the National Assembly and come up with a new bill. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of these amendments, the proposer initially states that the resolution ministry is responsible for carrying out public administration operations in the area of rail, road, water and air transport, which concerns, among other things, the legalisation of the transport infrastructure construction project and infrastructure projects of particular importance in the area of low-building. For these reasons, it is also the view of the SRS parliamentary group that this area must be more seriously arranged and that this business must be more serious and accessible. Further reasons are given to experience so far in the realization of projects and conclusions that in the process of realising the project it takes a long time to solve property-legislative relations before the issue of a building permit and that therefore the works are often delayed with realisation. The problem has been identified as project making, parceling and preparation, then, the implementation of procedures in the catastro by these projects, and I am ultimately the process of expropriation, but during the expropriation, there are various problems, such as illegal objects, waiting for solutions, legalisation requirements for these objects, unlisted objects in the cataster, population migration, complaints of entry solutions to the cadastre, complaints of expropriation solutions and so on. All of this is more reason why the proposer listens to the advice of the SRS parliamentary group and seriously approaches the making of a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53907	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53908	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, looking at these changes and additions as a proposal from the resolution ministry, can't help but feel like the minister himself wants to challenge as many conflicts as possible, to make as much chaos as possible when it comes to the legal arrangement of this resistor and the jurisdiction of this resistor. Let's just remember how big it is and what kind of a problem it was. Wild construction, illegal construction. The minister, instead of solving these problems, to remove what was an obstacle, is making it even more complicated, and now you have a situation, when it comes to legalising that those we discussed yesterday, who are in charge of the Swiss francs, are in a better position than those who have set out to legalize their facilities. Why? Because it's simply an impossible mission, because instead of simplifying the method, to simplify the way, the ministry has further complicated it, not only in the city of Belgrade, across Serbia is the same situation. You have in the suburban village of Veternik people who have submitted an application since earlier in 2004, for legalization, simply cannot get to the end of that process because every day something changes, which is new modes for calculating the obligations that people want legalization. But in order not only to remain on these legalisation issues, which are related to the contractors, investors, the minister goes one step further, she opens a conflict with the Engineering Chamber. You see, what kind of solution the ministry is offering. The office's absolute control of the Engineering Chamber, by the minister, so we don't fool ourselves. First, the Chamber is predicted to have a board of directors and a supervisory board, a assembly and president of the Chamber. Look what the absurds are, the board of directors has a two-year mandate, with members of the board being elected twice. The Supervisory Board has a five-year mandate, with members of the Supervisory Board elected only once. The Supervisory Board is directly elected by the Ministry, from the Assembly, or from the Management Board, by a total of 12 members of the six members, to be appointed by the Ministry. Well, wait, that no matter what anyone thinks, it's engineers, it's people who graduated from colleges, technical colleges. Well, don't underestimate so many people. The fact that Šumarac entered a personal conflict with Zoran Mihajlovic, just to remind you, they are from the same branch, they are from the same party. They were so-called. An expert group once, this one from G17, and this one from DS. And we're victims and engineers and the Engineering Chamber is the victim of their conflict.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53909	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 18th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53910	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. This is who knows which way to change and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction. All the authorities so far have sworn that they are the ones who will finally bring order into this area and finally resolve this issue. But you can see for yourself that it's not for the simple reason that this is a complex area where things can't be solved by breaking over their knees. I'm not saying it's your fault that the situation in this area is what it is. This problem dates back to the communist era when our country was rapidly industrialized, which brought with it a problem in this area. The problem with this government is that instead of solving problems, it complicates them even more. Today we have a situation that, in our own, especially bigger cities, in fact, new urban problems that no one will be able to solve in the future. Today, there is an intense destruction of family homes and housing buildings, less than or larger, so on certain plots, where there were several houses where there were five or six families, we now have residential buildings with about fifty apartments, or families. Nobody cares if it's possible for so many families to live on such a small space, without parking and other utility infrastructures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53911	Thank you. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53912	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this assembly of the Assembly is slowly becoming, I would say, specific to the fact that almost never before the MPs is a resolute minister and what was once an exception to the formerly resolute minister who is perhaps the most professional, should be the most professional one for a given area, possibly for a short period of time to replace one of his colleagues. We are faced with a new practice that always comes to us ministers whose not resor and who, realistically speaking, do not understand much about it. You, of course, are trying to convince us that there are ministers of general practice, people who are likely to be expert on everything, and that is in line with that tendency to call upon individual ministers to change resolutions, so perhaps we can expect Zoran Djordjevic to be the building minister in the next term. If Rasim can change from calling to calling the ministry, like others, then I guess he can. As far as the law itself is concerned, to be precise, the bill for amendments and additions to the law, again in the explanation we have a lot of good wishes, again we hear that this will lead to the expansion of construction, how much faster the permits will be obtained, how investors will run from all sides. However, it may deceive someone who is not seriously involved in politics and who does not know that this has already been written the previous time you changed and supplemented this law, and you also claimed that when you passed this law. To remind, above all, Serbian citizens, it was then said that the problem of building permits has been resolved, that from now on all buildings will have building permits, that they will be issued in 28 days the longest and that this will be a great relief for all citizens of Serbia. Anyone who wants to build in Serbia knows it's absolutely not like that, unless it's a state project, so they order it from a certain ministry, or if it's a party project, then one of the ruling parties orders to issue a permit in a magical manner quickly. If that is not the case, it is absolutely impossible, and I claim, that an ordinary citizen, in accordance with the law, is granted a permit within that legal period of 28 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53913	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53914	Just to let the public know the facts about this law and some of the things that have been started here. So, as far as the bridge is concerned, a valid permit has been issued and the bridge is awaiting an international agreement. It is waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina to ratify it so it can start building a common cross-border crossing. Then, there were words here about legalization of objects, this law does not foresee legalization. There is a special Law of Law, which is not today the subject of this debate. Then there was a question about mistakes that were happening during the work, and, of course, it pays for always by the performer. That doesn't have a dilemma. Wherever he makes a mistake, the performer is obliged to pay for everything he's done wrong. Then, projects related to the delay of this project, which is related to the construction of the highway. Unfortunately, they were done in 2010 and shows precisely the irresponsibility of the government at the time, because much of these projects were not right, which was done and established and the investigating authorities were handed over, so that they would be subject to investigation by whoever built, controlled, radio audit and allowed these projects to be put into effect and why they are now late. In 2014, Serbia was in 186 places after the license was issued. It's the facts. Today's the 11th. We're not happy with that either, and we'll see to it that we're going to go in order to make the licenses go faster. The issue of permits has contributed most to our progress on the Duing Business List, and is currently the second-in-a-kind to GDP growth. When it comes to railways, the plan is to return the Belgrade-Pancevo and Belgrade-Mladenovac lines. In 18 years from the application of the Law of Law, that is, in four years, 210 thousand objects have been legalized and they have received solutions. Before that in 18 years, 150,000 solutions in 18 years. What are the last facts, it is that today in Serbia we have 40,000 active sites, and five years ago there were about a thousand. It just speaks of how much this government and this government have managed to launch our economy and managed to launch this part of the industry, construction and that is, to say the interest of the Serbian state that they are growing in the future, because as you have seen its contribution to GDP is not even small, and thus the development of our country. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53915	You have no right to a replica, colleague Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic: How come I don't have one? ) Because statistics have been read. It had nothing to do with your discussion. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through this law it is best to see that SRS MPs are seriously approaching their jobs, considering the law as it should be, making efforts to improve this law. We see from here that out of some 15 amendments submitted by the SRS four amendments were adopted. My amendment to the first article wasn't adopted, but I want to say next. We all understand why this law is passed. It's a famous gondola to be built here in the heart of Belgrade. I read somewhere last night that there were some problems about the fact that the Administrative Court or the court in charge of such matters refused to issue a permit, and that suggests the fact that there are probably some problems. I don't want to get into whether Belgrade needs permission or not, nor am I competent to do so, but I want to say that the city of Belgrade certainly has much bigger infrastructure problems than this. We all know that Belgrade currently does not have a railway station, trains do not transport to the city centre. Soon they won't have a bus stop due to the situation with building Belgrade on water. I think those are the things that should be given priority and attention. As far as cablemen and gondolas and these other things are concerned, I don't mind, but when it's time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53917	The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53918	The tourism potentials of Serbia are truly impressive and under-exploited and we almost had in the procedure and the Tourism Act, and there we talked a lot about some parts of Serbia. Mr. Minister, you must now, what we are about to say and what I am going to point out under this law and amendment, convey as the proposal of ours, which has come across the huge approval of the citizens of Baja Basta in the government's session, or someone will hear from the ministry so that you have it in mind. We believe it is necessary that the project defined by the Bajina Basta municipality, although it is now an initial character, but which can get full legal form, be classified as necessary in the planning of the 2020 budget, which is the construction of cableways from Peruæc to Mitrovica. This whole move and the tourist potential of the so-called Drin magic ring is something that will attract a large and even larger number of tourists and revive the economy, for now, unfortunately, although it is a natural great potential, but the people there are hard to live and give opportunity to create new jobs, and that also tourists from Serbia, but also from around the world see this beauty that really stops their breath. I can't really speculate now how much the final amount is needed, but the experts will do it, but the fact that we're adopting one of these laws is enough, the initial chapel for you to think that if you want to do good in that whole neighborhood, you should single out those necessary funds. Last 2018 there were, you will not believe, but almost 250,000 tourists. The Drina regatta, which is organised every July in this beautiful place on the Drina coast, has attracted a huge number of visitors. It's even said that there were over 100,000 people in total and there should be even more. You, MPs, who are obliged to visit all of Serbia, because I guess it enters the description of your work, if ever one of you leads you to the area, look only at that beauty and how untapped it is and infrastructure is not arranged. Not only will this gondola that would be built and that connects Peruc and Mitrovica to Tara be paid off, but it will also give the possibility to continue to develop this type of tourism through Drina, because by co-operation between Serbia and Republika Srpska this project and how it can attract tourists from around the world. And here's me to bring out my personal impressions, which was, in particular, my heart was a lot last year when I saw a large number of Chinese tourists who came to see our beautiful Tara and Baia Garden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53919	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53920	I said I'll do it again. And this Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Wires is in favour of our claim that Zorana Mihajlovic is not working in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather, is increasingly working in the interest of those who are walking and I don't know how this is no longer clear to you. You're in the process of building this Kalemegdan cable, which we don't have anything against, we're for every construction, construction, but we have to have building permits for everything we build. And it is inadmissible for a building permit for that Kalemegdan cableman to be with any shortage. That license is issued by the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic. Those who walk, who are against the gondola, for days announce that they will shoot down the license, that the permit is not right, etc. Of course, they still have many courts in Serbia. Those 600 of you, bringing them in, obviously they didn't take over the primate. Now they, through Zorana and her license, mock the state, mock the government. Why can we claim this? Zorana also says in this bill it takes her a year to bring in sublaws. The law adopted in 2015 is now changing and takes her a year to draft sublegal acts. So this is an obvious sabotage of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The message to Mrs. Ana Brnabić – let her pay attention only to today's proposals of the law of Zorana Mihajlović, let her hire someone from her cabinet to check everything we're talking about, we argue – will confirm, and that you have nothing to look for in the government anymore. You dropped that construction license for the cable company because of Zorana Mihajlovic. Today, you will be like those who walk against you. What's your explanation? What was your explanation that it occurred to you that you were building this without complete construction documentation, no matter who the minister was? You shouldn't have done it no matter how much you're in a hurry to take a picture, to brag, etc. But where are you going? First, it is dangerous to create such a facility without neat construction documentation with neat other documentation guaranteeing security, etc. It's not good what you're doing. Minister, you are here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we sincerely hope that you will convey to the Government, or to the members of the Government, the President, above all, what we are bringing to you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53921	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the purpose of this discussion we're having right now. First of all, I appreciate the amendment's announcement that there's nothing against building a cable car, or gondola in Calemegdan. However, since there is a certain misunderstanding, which I do not accuse the amendment promoter of because I see that there is some confusion in the part of the public as well. Yesterday, some media reported that the administrative court's decision challenged the building permit for the cable car, or gondola, as it is rightly called. That's not accurate information. What the Administrative Court has been up to is so-called A permit for preparatory work. So, the gondola license hasn't been issued at all. She herself could not be challenged. What the court did was prep work. So, preparatory work related to archaeological research. That's what the court has decided. Today, I can say, it's completely tendacious by those gathered by this hooligan Bastac and who threatened to force, re-demotion as they destroyed traffic signs, as they destroyed fences around the construction site in the city centre, that they would also prevent Belgrade from developing a gondola in Calemegdan. Today they look like and say what they're sorry for, and some media reported yesterday that the driver's license is controversial. So she's not controversial. It's a matter of these preparatory papers, and I have to admit, and as a proposal for this amendment, I'm really surprised, what that means and what that makes sense. We've been listening to all sorts of things, I have to use this term, although it may not be like this place, a lot of nonsense that something terrible will be broken, that something terrible will be lost by building a gondola, and that it has to do with the cultural treasures of the city of Belgrade, so we've been listening to this Bastac and this hooligan team, which, in part, can be said, is funded by Gilas, and in part also the Old City municipality, because the terrible means are set aside for very suspicious jobs, very suspicious persons and agencies that seem to be dealing with providing a physical security to Bastac, i.e. to provide him with his horde hooligans for demollation and physical blocking, for the attack on workers. So they say -- cultural historical value of Calemegdan will be violated, because it will be torn down, watch out, medieval walls. Now, this place where there's absolutely nothing to do with the Middle Ages has anything to do with it. This place where it works, it's got today's shape, if someone has more precise data to correct, it seems to me, in 1948, you'll admit, it's a little far from the Middle Ages. Well, they say -- we'll lose a seat on the UNESCO list, and that fortress is not on UNESCO at all, and for a completely tenth reason, it has to do with the military museum issues, and today the city of Belgrade is dealing with it, and I believe that this issue will also be settled with success, so we'll get a seat on the UNESCO list. But these stories have nothing to do with meaning and as cream on cake, then cherries on that cream, come, imagine what kind of formulation, preparatory work, so what really is a topic will endanger archaeological treasure. Be careful, now that you're doing archaeological research, it'll put you at risk of archaeological treasure. Well, if that's really how it would be, if anywhere in the world, any archaeological finds would be discovered and arranged in the right way, if you can't do it the way science and profession prescribe it, research. So it has nothing to do with it, and it's really right to propose amendments when it says -- it's trendy and it's done obviously with a clear intention. What the ministry does has always had to do with strict procedure and clear procedures, including this temporary, or preparatory work, they have defined themselves according to what the city of Belgrade and its planning documents say, but also what the competent institutions in charge of protecting the country's historical treasure. It's been filed as much as I have information and complaints, and we'll all wait together to see how this process ends. I am sure that both the Ministry and the City and anyone serious in this country, who deals with this issue, respects the institutions, will wait for a final decision to be made. There should never have been anything controversial about it. When we say the rule of law, we mean it, but it would be good if those who deal with creative interpretations and who think that conducting archaeological studies could reflect negatively on archaeological findings, that this complaint would be dealt with as quickly as they did with this decision, and the media would probably start doing their job a little more seriously, so that things would represent the way they are. Working for Belgrade makes it more beautiful, better, more attractive, and these tourists you've talked great about today, to a significant extent, to attract them here. It is good and beneficial for all of us and has nothing to do with this some personal anxiety and personal dissatisfaction of the eternal losers, such as Bastac, like Gilas, these accompanying Jeremic and Obradovic. Their problems are just their problems. They can hate the development of Belgrade, they can hate its progress, only for reasons they hate Belgrade itself. Why do they hate him? Well, that's clear to all, because Belgrade has been refusing to vote for bullyes, rapists, hohstapplers and thieves for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53923	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53924	This is not just about the current cabler, or gondola to be built in Belgrade's space, but also about the cabler that was announced in Zlatibor's space. It's all serious business, and they need a lot of responsibility to approach it. We here suggest that the ministry prescribes conditions, but that amendment is not accepted for the simple reason it says - it is understood that the minister is in charge of the ministry. Of course, it is understood, but there is something called expertise and therefore responsibility. It is essential to take a responsible approach to this job, since the most important issue is the debate in the court, which is the gondola in Belgrade, there are huge delusions. It is a politicized issue that has nothing to do with politics, especially with the views being made, that it will in some way violate the Belgrade fortress of Calemegdan, that it will damage its appearance. Moreover, rather than mentioning the possibility of putting this under UNESCO's protection, it is precisely saying that everything UNESCO possibly puts under its protection, implies first of all that it does not violate this external appearance, authenticity and that it completely excludes traffic from the environment of the facility. In this case, fort. It's something that in any case contributes, this gondola would contribute in some future period to eventually be protected. We don't believe he can protect UNESCO, but that's how these differences are made. You have those that are for progress, for progress, and in this way they are using the opportunity to show how truly and intrinsically they think the opposite of progress and progress. We talked a few days ago that eventually this gondola would contribute and solve traffic problems in Belgrade, which in any case exists. Why am I saying this? A similar action was launched years ago in Novi Sad, that a gondola from Novi Sad, or Novi Sad, could be taken directly to Petrovaradin Fortress. And then there were these conceits who claimed that this would disrupt the appearance of the Petrovodin Fortress, that this would be a great minus when possible reception under UNESCO protection, etc. So they always have the same attitudes, the wrong attitudes, but it's important that at a certain point they're at the heart of media interest and that in a way they're going to be the ones to defend the currents of historical value, in this case they're defending archaeological values that they might belong to themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53925	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53926	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this law on facial cable is not only about gondolas, but, of course, next to these famous gondolas, we have other things like ski lifts and something else. By the way, speaking of this gondola, I have to say, the SRS has no objection to the gondola in Belgrade. It's not the only case. Many capitals in our environment, especially large cities have such a thing. A concrete example of Sofia, which is fortunate to be located just below a high mountain of Vitosha and there is this gondola. I think something similar exists in Zagreb, I'm not sure. What I want to say about this gondola is that we are against the Ministry's behaviour in this way. In particular, Ministerial Zorana Mihajlovic has allowed some confusion and some failures in this area and given the opportunity and opportunity to those who protest to lead citizens astray that something is bad, etc. For this reason, I believe that not only because of this, but also because of the many other things that we have talked about today in these laws, which are from the section of the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure, that Zorana Mihajlovic should not and should no longer be in this place, because every decision she makes, everything she reaches, always has some irregularities. So we're asking her to get rid of the minister of infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53927	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53928	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of the existing law, which in a better and more precise way defines the subject matter of this law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons is a very interesting legal proposal that is passed by a shortened procedure for reasons that we all know well. Of course, it's a famous gondola to be built here in the heart of Belgrade. I don't want to get into whether this is necessary for Belgrade, because we've already heard about it, but what we want to point out is that Belgrade has far more important and significant infrastructure problems to be addressed. You see for yourself that Belgrade today literally does not have a railway station and is not yet known how this problem will be solved. Soon they won't even have a bus stop and everything I said about the train station is valid for the bus. Furthermore, not to mention the subway that is needed by our capital. We have no objection to Belgrade descending on rivers, but the city and citizens must not suffer during the process. Gondola isn't what's most important to our city right now. But we need to know that there are still settlements in Belgrade where no municipal problems have been solved, such as water and sewerage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53929	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53930	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal for a law on lifts for the transport of persons would not be in front of us Members of Parliament today by emergency procedure if the construction of a cable car was not planned in the part of Belgrade. Here are the examples that I will point out, which my colleague Jovanovic said more about, and I will make my contribution, and it is a requirement of two years ago, to approve the funds for the construction of the same by Bajin Basta municipality, which was addressed to the Ministry of Tourism, where unfortunately it was not understood that this part of Western Serbia, next to the Drinska regatta, gathered an even greater number of foreign tourists who would enjoy the beautiful ambience of both Drine, so Tara, Drvengrad and so on. Such a proposal for the construction of a panoramic tourist gondola for the transport of tourists refers to the connection of two extremely attractive tourist resorts on the coast of Drina and Lake Mitrovac on Tara. In addition to its immeasurable importance in terms of a significant increase in the attractiveness of the famous magical tourist ring, which covers the region of western Serbia and eastern Bosnia, the construction of this tourist gondola would include a circle from the Sarganese 8th to Visegrada chakra and Andrić town, the canyon of Drina to Bajina Basta, and then across the mountain of Tara back to Mokra Gora. This area is located in Tara National Park, which in itself gives even more value to the starting points of the cableway and thus also to the attractions of both these regions and throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53931	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53932	In the hierarchy of legal regulations, unless the Constitution of a country counts, the law certainly comes first in those legal regulations. But if we look at it, a little bit of an analysis of how often we have the proposals of the construction and infrastructure ministry or whatever we call it, which is run by Zoran Mihajlovic, we will see that we have one inflation of these amendments and additions. Then the impression is that if one object is to be built that is of no importance to any populated place without talking about the state of Serbia, then we can expect a proposal to amend and supplement or even perhaps a proposal for a new law. That is one reason, and another reason why we have proposed changes in this article, namely that Article 7, in the last position, says the minister is closer to prescribing conditions for the installation of cableways, stations, pillars, foundations and other infrastructures. We believe that, and that is our position, the principled position, that not the minister, but the ministry, especially when it comes to Zorana Mihajlovic. Recently, a colleague named Gjorge Komlenski spoke about the road rehabilitation problems from Ub to Obrenovac or vice versa. He made a little joke and said it'd be better quality if he instead of that construction machine, that he had paved that way. A similar situation is on the side of the road in front of Lykovec. Where is this minister? Why isn't he going around building these cars, watching what quality these works are, so that they don't have multiple damages later? If someone doesn't pay out of their pocket, and he's not a responsible person, then he doesn't have the feeling that he needs to protect people's money. The best example of the waste of Serbian citizens' money uncontrollably is Zorana Mihajlovic. That's what a gentleman from the congregation must stand for. From the congregation's majority, initiate a change in such a minister. We personally don't mind, but we are against the waste of money from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53933	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Ljubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53934	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways and transportation of persons has been proposed that the minister be replaced by the ministry. This position of the SRS has long been expressed through its amendments, but the representatives of the authorities are persistently deafening these well-intentioned suggestions of ours. The reasons for these proposals are clear and the minister represents the ministry, it is not disputed that certain acts he brings. However, the minister is also a living man and there are many situations in which he can be prevented from passing a certain act. That is exactly the situation, the law needs to define that sublegal acts are passed by the ministry. It is therefore important that sub-legislative acts are adopted, that regulation of a particular area does not suffer because of the inability of the minister to bring the act in, and perhaps to remove the possibility that the minister does not want or avoid to adopt certain acts. There are many examples of delays in the adoption of sublegal acts, the breach of all possible deadlines, so there are holes in the law, because some area remains unarranged. Given that the cableways represent very complex systems with a legal and technical and security aspect, there is no doubt that the law they are being regulated should be of quality and access to its changes and additions in a serious way, with a view to improving the protection of the health and security of the person and of the property. Taking into account all of the above, the clear reason for the adoption of this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group is clear. Why this amendment should be accepted, which is that the text of the law that will be adopted will be as high-quality as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53935	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53936	This is an opportunity, Mr. Arsic, of distinguished colleagues, to talk about these ignorants from this pro-Western mercenaries' opposition and the entire yuppie around the Belgrade gondola. After all, it is good that Stamatovic from Cajetina was ripped out of the whole story, because the construction of a gondola on Zlatibor and what an important tourist project for the development of the whole region. Simply, that kind of destruction, first of all, is their appearance, you see that unfortunate Gilas, the look on his face, the look on his face, the attack on the RTS, the little Bastache and all that talk, something further collapses, what's going on, people who don't know anything about anything. You know, it would be normal for a little bit of gondola to know the citizens of the Shop, in some other parts of Serbia that are undeveloped, Black Treva, and down Babusnica, but they won't say, although they may never have been individual in Belgrade that it's something that shouldn't be done. And that's what those who fly in the Maldives, who have offshore companies, who go to various tourist destinations around the world. I guess it would be normal for Gilas to know, if he went around the world, but the question is where he spends his money because, as I think he is, he's going into one room and he's thinking and watching, whether he's traveling at all, and to see that in the whole world where there are such projects as the Belgrade gondola, like the one we're talking about in Baja's Garden project to make, he mentioned fellow Mircic and future project to Novi Sad, like the golden gondola to be made on Zlatibor, and that's all he's giving some new value. Capital investments in their heads don't exist. They have a capital robbery, kidnapping, deception and labeling of all those who don't think like them. In this amendment, we have asked, although "Scivilities of Serbia" do indeed work in all locations where there are cableways, elevators, this company has pointed out this as an orderly notice for return cablers, order of driving, to be both binding form and law, because it already exists, that they are doing so in all the places where the cable is being transported. I'm the only one who hasn't really visited this railroad on the Old Mountain yet, and I know how these others work. Time is respected, protection of people, travellers, especially small children. But here, we wanted to make a contribution to this law, and we don't understand why the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic didn't accept it. I don't know if you noticed, colleagues Arsic and you, Mr. Martinovic and you, Mr. Orlic, that Zorana Mihajlovic does not defend you at all when you are attacked by those of the "yellow company" who are destructive when there is any construction. They then talk about whether it's worth something, they're looking at how much the price is going to be, how many passengers should be driving in one hour, and it's just those who don't know anything about it, and they've not only visited such an attraction, but a means of transportation that means a lot in many cities around the world. That's why we felt that there were still a few other things that we should do, because we are a party that has always been a state-of-the-art, responsible, and that has access to everything that is good for the state and for some city in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53937	Thank you, colleague. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a bill on the transport of passengers in road traffic, where I requested the removal of the said member. That's what I was looking for because I just think the old solution that was in the previous law was better. In fact, this Article 1 refers to the definition and other things related to professional drivers, although I must admit that there is some kind of liberalisation here in this law when it comes to standards that need to be met by persons involved in the transport of passengers. However, the provision of professional drivers must not be deleted from the law, but must exist. Why? For the simple reason that, besides professional drivers, there are also a huge number of other drivers, we are all drivers, and if that definition of professional drivers does not remain, then it literally turns out that those who carry passengers and those who drive their own car have the same legal status. But there are even bigger problems here about this law. Unfortunately, today we are facing the fact that every day Serbia remains without a large number due to mainly economic conditions, a large number of drivers are going abroad, so that certain transport companies or a large number of these transport companies already have a shortage of drivers, there are still young or inexperienced or people who formally meet the conditions for this job, but they have been doing something else in their lives, and then they have a situation or simply need to move on to do this job, and we know that this transport of passengers in road traffic and that you trust living people in the hands of someone who may not have dealt with it for many years and the state, or the competent ministry should take care of this problem that is increasingly present.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53939	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53940	To relate to what counterpart Nikola Savic started to open up as one problem. We really warned you this would happen. As we were ten days ago, and especially a colleague, Alexander Seselj, indicated this to you as an argument more to abolish every health ban, so we don't have all health care facilities left without technicians and without doctors. This is now a really big problem for Serbia, a lack of licensed drivers and passenger traffic and freight certainly. How can that be solved? When you came as the Government of Serbia and Minister Sarcevic in the Assembly with a proposal for a law on dual education, we told you that this is not a good way, but that Serbia has traditionally had excellent schools specialising in certain occupations, as well as traffic schools in all major cities in Serbia. Wasn't it more logical for you to see who was the one who defined himself as a future professional driver through the survey of those students but in the second, third grade and professional traffic school? Do you know, Mr. Djordjevic, that authorisation requires at least 2,000 euros? Now many young people and ultimately people who have worked in some companies, who have had a category of driving licenses for a passenger vehicle, consider themselves capable enough to deal with and transport passengers, and have lost their jobs in a company, are somewhere technologically surplus, they do not have the money to pay to get that license. So, these schools and these companies, with the help of a state that needs to see how much of this frame is needed for the future, have to be involved and that through subsidies to obtain such permission allows people to gain that interest so that we do not really get into the situation, as is the case in many countries, to import professional drivers. Look at the problem not only in Germany, even in Slovakia, the growing number of our countrymen and that's where they're going to do this job. After all, other countries in our cougar environment with that frame. You can't do it like that and let something happen in a song, everyone will watch it go somewhere to make as much money as it needs to make a decent life for their family, but on the other hand, by not making it stop in an adequate way when there's a chance, just that you're willing to do it the right way, we're not going to get into that problem. It's five and ten years fast, and then don't grab our heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53941	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53942	This Article 26, which is referred to in Article 3, provides, inter alia, that a driver cannot be a person whose legal consequences for criminal offences against public traffic security have not ceased. It is fine, of course, but there is one problem in practice which is why we actually wrote this amendment to draw attention, as we do, that what is a problem in practice, we are trying through amendments to draw attention to you that it is incorporated into the law, into the bill, and into the law, and that these problems are not repeated. It is quite amazing for us, Minister Djordjevic, that someone who was watching, someone from the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic, did not pay attention and accept this amendment. So, we asked that the driver cannot be a person who has not ceased the legal consequences of the conviction against the security of public traffic, which is determined on the basis of an appropriate confirmation issued by the MUP. Why are we writing this? Because it happens in practice that a man goes to the MUP when he runs out, when these legal consequences go past, all his sentences run out, and he goes to ask for confirmation that it's a real, actual state of affairs, and they tell him there that they're just betraying anyone who's convicted or not convicted of criminal acts against public traffic security. And you know what a man needs is this confirmation that he's not convicted and that his legal consequences of a conviction have stopped so he can do his job, because where he comes to work, they're asking him for that document. He can't get it, and then how will he prove there to his employer that he's lost the legal consequences of his conviction? So this is a very practical problem, and we suggest you accept this so that it doesn't be a problem anymore. Nor does here change the essence of the bill that we normally have a lot of objections to, as we had and when it was passed, because these are amendments and additions, therefore, this is something that is just so to say legal order, a distraction of the attention of the MUP that, because you know every body, must give every person, citizen of the Republic of Serbia, whatever he asks for if in his record that authority has that information. The interior ministry has this information that someone has had legal consequences in traffic, criminality, so that there are no more legal consequences and what's the problem with such confirmations not wanting to betray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53943	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53944	Instead of facilitating and simplifying the functioning of taxi services, the ministry is trying to make it the exact opposite. In fact, to be a taxi driver today, that is to say, to do the job falls under these amendments to the law that it is easier to finish a college in private schools than to be a taxi driver to get these great permits. You ministers understand this business and you know that certain problems have taxi drivers who, please, Ministers just a little attention, look, and this is how the problems are very big that registered taxi carriers face. Here we have the introduction of so-called. The cab driver's card is perfectly normal and acceptable. We have this certificate, which is what's already called that 95 code, and it's perfectly normal for every cab driver to own it. Why is that normal? To prevent that so-called. Wild cabging and eliminating these people from the streets and from the space where they do it without paying taxes, doing and risking their own and other people's lives. What's the point here? A new authority for municipal inspectors is introduced here that a municipal inspector possessing a stick that writes a stop to prescribed dimensions can stop a taxi carrier and in some way legitize it, performs certain actions with it, such as possible some infringements, etc. There's a little traffic police, there's little authority for inspectors, and there's a communal policy where a taxi station can control anyone who does such a job, and even during traffic, the municipal police should stop him and further harass him. In most cases, it's harassment. On the other hand, it is wild for us, literally, especially in Belgrade, those who have not been reported, those who do not have a single certificate. So what's the essence of the state? What's the essence of government? The essence of the government is to simplify and here are the rigorous conditions, here is five years of work experience, here is the possession of a car of certain performances, all here are rigorous conditions. We're introducing double control of this, except for the traffic police, and regular police need community inspection, or police to stop it with a table rate. Well, you can imagine how they feel, those people barely make ends meet while they're paying for everything. After all, you have a complete understanding for these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53945	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53946	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Transport of Road Passengers entered into force in 2015 and the full application of this law began two years later, so in 2017, individual provisions of this law would arrive at an amendment already in 2018, which speaks enough about the unseriousness of the motionor and one unserious approach to solving this problem. Today we have a proposal to amend and supplement this law by emergency procedure. The draft law stipulates that the definition of a professional driver's license is deleted and the obligation for business operators to carry out a travel order as well as the obligation for the driver to have a professional driver's license. Certain provisions of this law, i.e. the Bill's proposal, call into question the individual authorities of local self-government, i.e. the administration responsible for traffic operations in the conduct of inspection tasks. It's a good thing the opinion of the Traveler's Truck Association, Limo Services and a number of taxi drivers' trade unions is respected. The question arises -- when are we going to have uniform types of cars on the streets of Serbia, aesthetically clean and beautifully decorated, as modern taxi services in large cities of Europe? The driver's problem is solved by ad hoc, which means, from case to case, from situation to situation. This issue must once be resolved justly and efficiently, in favour of both society and drivers themselves. There are no good or lasting solutions by the state, but no lobbyists by the driver's association. The old pains are: conditions for taxis, years of age and the value of a high category vehicle, conditions for acquiring competences for performing professional drivers' tasks. And in the end, will this proposal really reduce the cost of economic operators in terms of costs and making use of stamps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53947	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53948	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the law was passed in 2015, it was expected that it would then quite arrange the traffic market for passengers in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, that did not happen, because with this proposal for a passenger transport law, it is proposed for certain groups of carriers and their interests, because we see lobbying as much as this law changes. This also shows a new, fourth change to this law, in a short time, where it comes out to illegal passengers, passenger vehicles up to eight seats carrying a large number of passengers in domestic and international traffic, while obligations to the state remain unfulfilled. We have also learned that certain co-workers of Minister Mihajlovic are pressing for inspection, which is completely independent of law enforcement and decision-making and that they are also keeping them from applying the law to illegal carriers. While the law requires registered carriers to obtain a complicated license procedure, such an irresponsible relationship by the Ministry of Transport cannot get a licence with a duration of more than two years, where their documentation is lost and where an even greater problem arises. An even worse situation is in freight transport, where, unfortunately, because of the complicated process of obtaining licences, our carriers are moving to Slovenia, registering the company and getting all work permits in two hours, which, unfortunately, cannot be obtained in Serbia, as I said earlier, in two years. The bilateral permits and cents issued by the ministry over the past two years have reached incredibly high prices, but on the black market. This tells us that it is high time for the minister and his associates to resign and save traffic operations in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53949	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53950	The introduction of order into all spheres of life, especially in the field of road transport, makes sense, but there should be a measure, so in this respect we have submitted an amendment to Article 8. which applies to Article 160. The road traffic law you're proposing to change. The 160th member speaks of who has all the right to control, so it is now, apart from the police, authorities in local self-government and authorities in autonomous provinces, and traffic police, and municipal police and other inspection services. Here I find it particularly interesting in the position of the 2nd member, where it is said that the municipal police have the right to stop passenger vehicles, not those vehicles that carry public transport, but passenger vehicles, if they estimate that the driver's behaviour in the passenger vehicle is not adequate or could point to some irregularities. How and in what way does a communal officer evaluate what's not in line with his opinion, I guess? It's a little illogical for us, and I think it can represent great abuses in reality, in life. The specific amendment refers to the fact that the table owned by the municipal police doesn't have to stand - Stop municipal police, that's enough - Stop, because this member regulated exactly what that bat should look like, its dimensions, its personal lighting. It is enough to exist - Stop and then the driver to whom it refers will understand the official's message, and based, if necessary, on his legitimacy, on the uniform he owns, he will recognize that it is an official person, where he has to cooperate, or must act as he is at a given moment and expect. I think there's a lot of possibilities here for abuse by officials. Besides, like there are today. A little more conscience is needed, much more responsibility is needed in the management of motor vehicles, but it is also necessary by officials to strictly respect legal regulations in order to avoid their abuse. We have had enough of both public and private enforcement, should we now have the trauma, or the citizens of Serbia, and from officials who, under some applicable rules, have certain rights and powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53951	Thank you, colleague Perich. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53952	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. We have proposed this amendment to Article 9. The bill is deleted. Our opinion is that the old solution is better and more comprehensive. In this regard, Article 9 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 161 of the existing Law on the Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic. The amendment proposed is cosmetic, does not contribute to anything and is a worse solution than the existing solution. We've tried to change the subject. This isn't the first time we've changed this law. The promoter stated that they are being modified due to the need for urgent compliance with the provisions of the laws and sublaws governing the safety of traffic on roads, in a work that determines the qualifications of professional drivers, as well as the need to specify certain provisions of the law in order to ensure uniform application of the rules by the managing authorities of all units of local self-government. It is further noted that these changes will lead to more favourable conditions for carrying out those activities, without imposing any new costs and obligations on economic operators. If the promoter is really seeking what he has stated in his reasoning, he should consider the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party again well and accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53953	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53954	This amendment refers to a member who, in a sense, regulates something relating to taxi transport, to passenger vehicles carrying out taxi transport. I'll say a few things that are current in Belgrade and in all of Serbia. In Belgrade, several, more taxi associations work, and they are mostly in line with the law. Meanwhile, Jandex taxi drivers also appeared in Belgrade, then these regular, until then taxi drivers from the association protested, rebelled, etc. because they did not want competition, and then Jandex was fully legalised. While it wasn't for you to call, you have an app, you're asking for a Jandex vehicle to come to you, and it was mostly vehicles from some associations, and those people have to take down that taxi board, and you're as a user of that service as if you're driving with a neighbor, not with cab drivers because it wasn't arranged. So Jandex, meanwhile, has arranged his status. Now we have this group "Kar go", an association that now has problems on the street again. These vehicles have no markings, they also have an app, they have people in a working relationship, employees and there is again a problem of municipal inspection, as was the case with Jandex, and with some taxi associations in the way that in taxi associations, under quotes, they hunt wild cab drivers, pensioners who tax, and now these "Kar go" drivers. Imagine what impudence it is for a municipal inspector to install the app, call the "Kar go" carrier, he comes for it, takes it to a destination, and when he gets there he's got a spider waiting for him, he's carrying him, he's taking his car. You people, everything you can't solve as a legal state, you solve by force. You're kidnapping. Executors, communal inspectors, so how can someone take a vehicle away from a man who's in the Kar Go Association? So, the state's incapacitated, in this case we claim, here all day, Zorana Mihajlovic wants chaos in the state. Among other things, he is currently using this fight with the Kar go association. Ana Brnabic, president of the government, says the association can work normally, Zorana says - can't and then Zorana sends inspectors who, you imagine, take people's vehicles. So that's what they do to regular cab drivers, taxi drivers, regular associations that are retired, so they do, and you know that a retired man can work, that's legal. She tries, first to destroy the competition, secondly, to create people's dissatisfaction, because then she's unhappy, if you're driving "Kargo" by association and if there's a communal inspector stopping that vehicle there, so she takes the vehicle away, you're here as someone who's going to work or somewhere, you don't know what miracle you've found yourself in. So you can't take away property, you can't do it without a criminal trial. If criminal proceedings prove that the property was acquired by a felony, then it can be taken away, and if someone broke something, you can't take his car. The problem is, and here I am, the problem is that someone has no guts, no will, no desire, and has the will, the will and the guts to help walkers, about Zorana Mihajlovic, therefore, to create chaos in the state, will not solve this problem. Can't you go? Then there's no point. Can "Kar go" under certain conditions? Then you can, uh, ask them to meet the conditions. So, taking the vehicle away from the communal inspection, and from the police, it's simply impossible. It's impossible to take someone's property without conducting a criminal procedure and to determine that the property was acquired by a criminal act. There's no other way. Or, if he finds explosives in his car, he can't be taken away from his car permanently. All he can do is release the explosives, so he can run the procedure again, and then he can't take away the property, and that's what this is about, imagine, a community inspector on the street taking away a man's car. Well, that's really scary and amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53955	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Otherwise, this Article 13 refers to the penalties provided for. I asked with my amendment that these penalties be reduced, for the simple reason that the purpose of this and any law is not only to be punished, but the aim of every law is to fulfill its intended role. In my previous amendment, I was talking about that the state of Serbia is facing a problem of lack of driver, and for this very reason it must be kept in mind all the things I talked about both in the previous and what I'm talking about here. In fact, we have a staff drain situation, it pours out a driver abroad, and it's not just in the field of traffic, but in all other areas such as health care, it's a particularly drastic example in health care. But if, say, in health care, you might be able to, let me say, make up a little bit of compensation by, say, one doctor instead of 30 or 40 patients who today have a little bit more trouble, so that number increases by 10, 20 or 30%, one driver, especially a road passenger driver, it certainly can't, because the law strictly provides for how much the driver can drive, how much rest, etc. Now, we have situations to lay down for a particular category, meet that old conditions and directly, literally, from the polygon to the bus at the Nis-Sabotica or Skopje-Zagreb route, etc., and where it takes passengers, because simply, there are no other options. So you have to keep in mind this thing and get in touch with both the transporters and the drivers, so you don't get in a position where there's no one to drive us. Here, let's say in the ER we have, too, a problem where besides the restrictions on employment, we have people who literally drive patients, and ambulance drivers are also not only drivers, but they're part of the sanitary team, part of the medical team. So they're there, they have the role of paramedics, they're helping with the transmission, I know, taking care of the sick and the injured, and now the man comes to work for the first time, and he's got to deal with these things, so he's got to keep this in mind. Of course, things are trying to settle for overqualified or qualified drivers, which is not controversial, but it's always been but that one continuity in this activity has to exist and it has to be taken care of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53957	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. National MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Natasa SP Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53958	I believe you haven't all forgotten something, and you and Mr Marinkovic and you MPs, that in 2017, at the proposal of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government were isolated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 2.5 million dinars to improve the image of the municipal police and to achieve better communication of municipal police officers with citizens. Here, now in 2019, and you have heard all these examples from various cities of Serbia, about the haughtiness of certain municipal police officers many journalists and researchers wrote, and in the end, citizens who have experienced truly amazing things from individuals who work in that service. How bad it was for such a service to be established at all we talked about when the law was passed in 2010, right, and when we said that they would have their own parallel system that would and how to disrupt, to bring confusion among citizens, and eventually to panic and fear. What was the explanation, you were not at Mr Marinkovic's Assembly at the time, but were you able to follow as a citizen or a participant in this country's social life, a reason to establish a municipal police force? To reduce noise levels, to regulate all the places in one settlement, to make sure that the regulations of local self-government units are respected. You have a situation today that in parks all over the country, dogs go beasts, municipal cops do nothing to make decisions. You've heard of a case recently, unfortunately, little girl, so before that, a little boy. They walk, so they look, at least that's how it is in Kragujevac, whether flowers have blossomed in the park, because there is nowhere in Radomer Nikolic, the mayor, is gone, there is none. It's all gone down, and now all it takes is a communal cop to go with that bat and hit a cab driver on a trailer or someone else who's got a license to take passengers in road traffic. What's worse is that they, I don't know if it's been replaced now, until two years ago, had metal sticks, and besides these 2.5 million dinars to improve their image was also called a tender for the purchase of rubber sticks. Is this normal? We live in a society where municipal cops park on the green surface. A colleague of Serbia's Radical, Bojan Mladenovic sent me some photos, a bicycle stood in a parking spot, then a municipal policeman came along, so he should park. What our people would say, like, tossing that bike, it went to the treetop, it's really amazing and horrible. Here, colleague Grosda, right, tried a few years ago to save a cat in the settlement where she lives. When the communal officers came, she might be a woman at the Animal Protection Association, right, co-worker, whatever, maybe, I'm sorry if it wasn't you, and she's a match for the same name and last name, but whoever did it to us. You know, these helpless creatures need help, too. No, we've got communal cops who'll step on them further. Indeed, you must come to the Assembly with a proposal to settle this area and we cannot make it, at least that's what my colleague Mircic was talking about, in the safety of traffic, a parallel system. If we have cops, traffic police working in difficult conditions, and in the most heat, when it's a traffic collapse and all kinds of other situations, it can't be a communal officer who can get involved in his business and stop him and that he's directing cab drivers. Then explain, you are all from different cities, if you have issued so many licenses for the work of the taxi association, here, specifically in Kragujevac, let the smart Radomir Nikolic come out and then let him say where they will park those taxi drivers, whose license is given from the same City Assembly, and of them is charged neatly in each association of 100 euros for that sticker, or for their taxi station. You just can't keep asking the people without giving them anything, they'll still go and beat people in the street with those sticks and write them all kinds of punishments that no one else can pay. I almost went to register my vehicle, believe me how poor we are after all. People came, one man was about to cry, he was standing on the counter in front of me, when he handed over all the paperwork at the MuP Kragujevac, this lady told him – you can't, you have a ticket, you're sued. He doesn't even have a clue, and it came to him right from the commies that punishment. Now, who knows how much, sued him in the end for talking to his fellow Peric, who yells at the people, the private executioner, and he doesn't know that either he didn't get to that address solution, or he has yet to arrive, and at that moment he's registering some car that he barely bought, he comes to the counter -- he can't, pay, then come. Constantly – search, search, search; and people would not have so much punishment that these are just from the Communist Police, so you gave two and a half million dinars in 2017 in the Republic of Serbia's budget because their image is not fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53959	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53960	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would refer to these discussions and the previous amendment explained by my colleague, Ms. Radet, and, of course, the suggestion that and I think that we can work together here, and I would agree entirely with the fact that we primarily establish a state policy that goes towards the market economy and that market economy that will function at full capacity. There's no better regulator, any possible relationship, businesses, human, anything that defines social relations, there's no better regulator than the market itself. I think we need to go safely and dynamically to remove the obstacles as much as possible, to lift the permits. What Radeta was talking about was a very, very important thing to open the market, to let everyone who meets the minimum of any conditions and preconditions that they can work and thus create a social and business environment in which people will compete in their abilities, by their qualities, qualifications. Someone from the SNS parliamentary group also talked about opening our country and our market completely for one competition, because this very arm of the market best defines economic relations. I'm free to say I'm against any bans, against any permits. If there should be 50,000 drivers in this city and in this country, make it 50 grand. If they want to sign up to do 100,000 people this job, let the state get them to do it, let them try to make money on the same market and I'm against any kind of obstruction and any kind of ban, especially in business, especially in the business sector. So, in any case, we have to think, I see that there is will on one hand and on the other about removing obstacles to business, removing obstacles to business environments, removing parafiscal and any other influences and providing the best possible conditions for work and business in the state of Serbia. We've done a lot in the past seven years, a lot of parafiscal duties have been lifted. The economy is completely relieved. We have definitely carried out very difficult economic reforms and are recognised by all, from domestic social factors to international organisations and institutions. We created, of course, headed by President Vukic, a really great business environment. We have a leading position in this region, we can do even better, we can reach up to five percent of the growth in the next period, which will, of course, allow us to develop even more, will make more jobs possible, but in this sense we must and should work together, leave the maximum market to develop itself, and that the state has only this very corrective factor and that it deals with those issues that are of importance to those social groups that cannot manage themselves and survive on the market. So the state needs to deal with social policy, secure the maximum social justice, and leave business to people who want to work, who want to start their own private initiatives. If anyone wants to drive, drive. If someone wants to do any job, they should be given the opportunity to start that job in one day, try the market and see if they can beat those who are his competition. There are no more healing things in this world, no better and more healing things in political social, economic relations than competition. Competition is the mother of development. And I see that here we have very, very opportunities to develop competition and to adapt the legal framework, of course, to develop competition and develop a business environment. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53961	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53962	Thanks again. A few notes just for the purpose of wanting to contribute again to the quality of today's discussion. So, when it comes to the introduction of competition and the introduction of modern technologies, it is, of course, a common interest and a common goal. However, we need to be absolutely precise about what the proposed changes are and what the problem is being addressed. So this is not the proposal's intensity to prevent any solution from being modernised, nor is it the solutions to providing this type of service that concerns the transport of people. Here, therefore, is a clear reason and a clear motive to prevent unanimity and insistence on doing the opposite of the law. I'm sure everyone will agree that we can't let that happen. Here, this particular proposal refers to the situation in question, there was a statement today, a carrier called "Kargo". Why am I saying that this is not a way to prevent the use of modern solutions and the use of modern technologies? It is absolutely possible for us to use this type of technology to provide this type of service. Evidence that this is possible, so here, testify, let's say, and the appearance of a taxi operator on our market, which is precisely based on this kind of concept. This is about the operator ‘Jandex’. He uses the same type of service as "Kargo", with his work, unlike this association, today it is the Kargo association, in line with the law. That's the fundamental difference we're talking about here and the basic motive for this kind of amendment and addition of the law. So, the law that regulates the services of transport used, the driver's services with valid taxi approval. What neither the existing law nor these changes that we are discussing today, and which I believe will soon be passed, does not allow, is that businesses or entrepreneurs, individuals, who do not have the proper approval and who refuse to comply with what defines the law, appear. I don't think that's possible in any area, it shouldn't be allowed in this one. And that, once again, has nothing to do with competition. It has to do with the existence of formal rules and what we mentioned today, some rule of law, right? What is important to know people who listen to this, "Kargo" can, under existing conditions, function without any problems. All it takes is for these terms to be accepted and the law to stick to it. They need to know that only this association has declared itself not to respect the law, but they want to follow some rules that define themselves. Now, if anywhere in the world can, let each of us think for ourselves, but to use legal voids, that's not good practice, that's how we play law, that's not something that'll accept any orderly system at any part of the globe. We also talked about what is the standard in Europe and what is the practice of other countries and whether they can do it and can't do it with us. For the record, what we insist on is that the law is respected and that the rules must be clear and applied to everything, without exception. It's a rule that has been managed in Europe as well. And here's what happened there. The European Court of Justice in the Barseleon dispute against Uber, where the same kind of problem as the one we are solving with this Kargo association, has reached a verdict that found out that "Uber", using a mobile application to connect users with non-professional drivers, providing transport services, does not provide information technology services, as they wanted it to be officially presented, but rather a service that is classically trafficked, and is obliged to adapt its business to national rules on the transport of each country in which it was sent. Serbia is not asking for anything more than this with this bill of law. It requires that business, which is a classic service, not provide some modern information technologies, but a classic transport service, be easily tailored and adapted to our national laws that regulate the area. And the interpretation of the EU court is identical in this case and the interpretation of our competent ministry. I think it's clear enough now for all those who participated in this debate that we are removing, and what is indisputable about our motivation, developed, certainly, modern, without any doubt, but a regulated state, a state in which laws are respected and the rule of law is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53963	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53964	From the time of the parliamentary group. Here, therefore, it is not disputed that we are all in this room seeking to create competition, but creating competition on a level playing field, which is a problem with the emergence of some applications, where certain market conditions change and where, simply, if we accept it, someone is in a privileged position. First, to clarify that taxi transport is a form of public transport and is subject to special legal provisions as a form of public transport. First, in order to carry out a taxi transport, it must report its activity and, on the basis of a declaration of activity, exercise its rights both for pension insurance and for health insurance, therefore, to pay certain contributions to the state. Through the declaration of activity, there is also a obligation to pay a certain income tax or to earn a person who performs a certain activity. Furthermore, since public transport is carried out, its vehicle is subject to a special regime to determine the correctness of the vehicle for participation in public transport and public transport, which withdraws, as far as I know, a technical review twice a year and that every day the taxi carrier must fill in a specific list guaranteeing the correctness of its vehicle before it is involved in public traffic. Now, these call cab drivers trying, trying to keep up certain pressures, roadblocks supposed to make a profit by hiring more citizens and making their service cheaper. We are in violation of that principle, which is the principle of equality on the market. On the one hand, taxi drivers who are obliged to pay all taxes, contribute and tax on income and pay special fees to carry out the business of the city of Belgrade, in this case, are in a more unfavourable position than others who provide such a type of transport. Now, theory and discussion whether or not he has the right to be taken away from the vehicle, in which case a vehicle or not is taken away, of course the vehicle cannot be taken away if it has only been determined that the vehicle has been transported illegally in public traffic. However, if at the time of control it is established that public transport is carried out against legal provisions, and as it may. The vehicle is not taken away permanently, but temporarily, and for reasons to prevent a violation of the law. It's nothing else to prevent a violation of the law. Someone will say, "It's infrequent." I'm going to quote a professor, a doctor of legal science, says – and a felony is a crime, just because it's a milder form of social danger, it's treated differently in a court and second procedure. So, the vehicle is temporarily taken away to prevent criminal activity. It's what people do, who have public authority under the law. Public inspectors are persons who determine, on the basis of the Inspective Services Act, whether a person violates the law or not, the competent court shall inform them of this in order to initiate the proceedings. The other part of the story is whether to take the vehicle away or not. So, let's separate some of these things and not the populist stories. So, whoever participates in the market must have a reported activity, must be in the special regime of the technical examination of his vehicle, guaranteeing by his signature and declaration that the technical vehicle is right to participate in public transport, to pay taxes and contribute to equalising it with those who already do so. Those who don't have anything to look for on the street. So, the vehicle will be returned to them, but they won't be able to perform that activity until they have the vehicle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53965	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Procedure of REFERENCE IN THE CATEGORY OF IMPLEMENTATION AND WATERS You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments of the Republic of Rade, Milorad Mirčić, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Sreto Peric, Nemanja Sarovic and Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53966	The Law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water cadastre adopted in 2018, amended in 2018, it was either far or past, and in 2019 the law is re-changed. According to Zorana Mihajlovic, and this is also said in the media, here is the explanation, in the drafting of the text of this law, an analysis of the problem has been carried out in practice, so because of the long-term process of solving property-legal relations, when planning, etc. Is it possible, my people, that someone should propose to the National Assembly and the National Assembly, in addition to all our objections to this bill, that the law be passed and that in less than a year, someone double-changes that law and then says, in practice it turns out, and as the law suggests? On what grounds does someone come here to the National Assembly? Doesn't it say we make the law, we regulate it here and there, and when you adopt this law, when it comes into force it'll be like this, it'll be like that? No, Zorana Mihajlovic is experimenting with bill proposals and we've been saying it for a few years. Zorana Mihajlovic is experimenting with the state. Zorana Mihajlovic is planting clips on his own government, the government he is sitting in. Why is the catastre on strike for a few months? How is it possible that such a capable woman, like Zorana Mihajlovic, is unable to solve the problem of people in the catastro? How is that possible? You're the one who solved that group of people who were strikein' for Swiss. An unconstitutional law will be passed to solve the current problem. A staged strike problem in the post office. Mrs. Mira, director, went to talk to people, found a solution, the problem will be solved. Everyone can solve the problem with some strike groups, all go to talk to strikers, their representatives, their unions, to find a solution. Only Zorana Mihajlovic won't, she doesn't care what the catastre strikes. What does she care what the catastre strikes? She's still saying, she's going on TV and she's saying -- no, she's just strikein', I don't know what percentages, the rest of them are working. The poor people run, they say -- there's the minister's statement, they come, the counters are closed. Do you know what it means that a few months doesn't work, even partially that he's on strike? That means people can't get building permits, they can't get legalization records, they can't do real estate sales, there's no construction. It is simple to stop development in that part of the Serbian state. Now somebody say we have something against Zorana Mihajlovic, so we stress this. No, but we see what that woman is doing, we see that she as a Scott agent in the government drills everything someone else might want to do and do systematically, over time. We warned, warned, so she stole at Bechtel 300m euros, so you shut up again, so we say nothing will happen under that Law on Legalisation, because she has made such conditions that no one can meet. You keep your mouth shut, you vote. Now you have a catastre that doesn't work. She doesn't move her finger. She's going before New Year's Eve, when she left with a pink helmet, she says she's going to Predejane or where she's gone, she won't come back until Corridor's finished. Go back, pass the time, Corridor doesn't end, make fun of the state, make fun of the government, make fun of the people. So it obstructs Serbia's state, Zorana Mihajlovic. You allow her, instead of giving her back this law and that law and saying, "Give the services there to write the human law, and let someone else come here." Here, the minister who's here on behalf of the government is talking about the law, we don't mind, but someone has to suggest something worth paying attention to. What Zorana's doing is not worth the attention, so we're erasing everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53967	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53968	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a very interesting story about the strike and how it's been tried to make the whole state hostage to a small group of people. You know, there are still no clearly defined conditions what strikers are asking for the leadership of the Republic Geodesy Institute or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They can't say what they're looking for. It's not about pay, it's not about working conditions. It is that Serbia is wanted back in the 19th century. There's been a lot of corruption stories here. A law has been passed that has, in many ways, prevented or reduced the possibility of corrupting shops, right in that catastrophe. The former party had to go alone, wait on the counters, hand over the paperwork, walk her from the counter to the counter. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. I didn't throw it to you, my colleague. When you meet all the requirements and submit the request, then your subject stands for months not to process, provided that, behold, the referent wants to help, it is not up to him, but those who process need a little help with one 200, 300 Euros. That's how the first-degree procedure was conducted in the cataster, where it's now being striked. They strike because there are no more 200, 300 Euros, because the first-degree procedure can also start a notary. That bothers them. It bothers them because public authorities, one part of their public authority, are given to others. So he's just running the procedure, assessing, and that's what bothers them, because public authorities, one part of their public authority, are given to others. So he's just running the procedure, assessing the fulfillment of the conditions for someone to start a bookmaking process on some immovable property and start alone in front of a disaster. As a result, all you have is a solution that the commissioner signs. The notary is responsible for the credibility of the I.D., just like the official face in the catastro. Both were given public authority, with the notary working for the prize, i.e. the remuneration paid by the party in the process, and Mr. Kadastru is working for the salary provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since they consider their salary to be low or have spread a lot as they took 200-300 euros, the provisions of the law should be abolished or at least not applied so that they can move further from each party in the process to seek some hundreds, 200 euros. Guys, somebody's gonna say it's not much. It's only from one party, from only one procedure. Hundreds of people go through there. That's tens and thousands of euros in a week. That's what made these laws impossible for them. That's why they strike. Do they need to meet? No, especially those of some associations because I know some of those strikers who lead and make noise in front of "Post of Serbia", in front of the Republic Geodesy Institute, etc., who are like workers of none, here I am telling you, none, but as trade unions that will stop citizens from entering a public institution, they are very successful. They are as violent as Bosko Obradovic, who beats women. No citizen can prevent a public institution, where he has the right to exercise his legal interest. There's no one right. They are doing it in the same scenario as Bosko Obradovic does, as Gilas does, as President Bastic does. And so they took a pattern, and they've scratched it in money so far, so it's a little bit, they want more. No more of that. Let them forget and get back to work. If it's a small salary, let them quit. Serbian citizens pay them to work. If they don't like the workbook on the market, you can manage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53969	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go. Two minutes. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53970	Arsic's gone with Zoran to the opposition of the current government. It says – strikes a small group of people. I don't intervene because of the pleonism of Arsic -- is it a small group or a group, but it doesn't matter, but because of the fact that we heard something that really common sense can't accept. The man who is part of the government informs the public that the people in the catastra were taking 200-300 Euros. No one's been punished. No one's been arrested. He says it's been years. That someone from the opposition is talking about you should attack him, say what you're insulting, what you're doing, what you're doing. No, Veroljub Arsic, he has information, he has data, this is not information, this is data. Arsic has data that the catastra employees were taking 200-300 euros, so now Arsic has banned them by some law and Zorana, and now they strike. If that's true, then it's just amazing, only that's why Zoran can't be a minister anymore. How is it possible that no procedure has been initiated, that no one has been arrested, that no one is in prison. If this is true, then why should the people put up with it? Then get everyone out of the catastrophe. Bring in other people, if that's true. Because of your incompetence, because of Zoran's obstruction of the state, remember, people, you'll see very soon how right we were and don't be embarrassed. At least shut up, don't defend her. Because of its obstruction of the state and government, in which it sits, we have a catastra strike, whatever the reason, whatever the reason, the jobs that the catastre performs for this people are so important, so vital that the state has to solve the problem, whatever. If he can steal a man's car state, which he can't solve a cataster strike.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53971	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53972	If such chaos had arisen in the catastrous and with solutions to citizens' complaints in the second degree, that Zorana Mihajlovic was responsible for all this, we argued more than two years ago when counterpart Petar Jojic first submitted a parliamentary question. At that moment, there were 36,000 unresolved disputes in the catastra in the appeal procedure, in the second step, and we said so, that is, by fellow Jojic from the pay phone and here directly to the face of Zorana Mihajlovic. She ignored us. He's looking somewhere. He's setting up his hair. She doesn't care. Believe that people came to a huge family problem because they couldn't get those solutions when they expressed their complaint. Nor could they transfer apartments and other properties to their children. Unfortunately, in divorce procedures, children to exercise the right, parents, legacy, alimony and all that. It's one chaos in general. Only when we, the Serbian radicals, alarmed the public and when she saw it was more really unsustainable, that is, that we know what to do there, watch out for fellow Marinkovic, it was 2017, and this is 2019... As long as it took for her to come, to escalate all of it, and under it, it's under her ministry as a whole. She took 36,000 items out of the drawer and they haven't been solved yet. Is that not enough reason? She traveled there with Wolfie in China. She doesn't like Russians or Chinese. She loves Americans, Scott, but she's probably still spying on them, seeing what's going on out there. It's amazing that you don't realize that one day you're going to be kind of grateful for what we're saying. Look through the history of the newer parliamentarianism. From 1990 to this day, whenever we published books to a minister, it turned out that we were right. You don't have an answer, and her arrogance has already reached its limits. So now you're saying that people there are corrupt, which is the tariff, how much they take. You know, I don't even have a good opinion about the work of a catastra in my hometown. They also don't do the job right in the most part, so what does it mean now, to advocate here as a People's MP from Kragujevec that they all get fired? No, it's that the minister resigns, and to change the commissioners, that some rules are made for these people to work effectively so that citizens don't suffer huge damage, not just citizens, but business. You say - we encourage this entrepreneurship, another so-called entrepreneurship. It's a small business. A lot of people depend on it and that cataster to get into some business. Someone to sell some real estate, someone to translate from father to son that property. This someone to compete with Nedimovic's Ministry of Incentives in Agriculture and everything goes in circles and it all depends on whether someone can invite or not there now. To get into that people are corrupt and they have certain tariffs, you know, I wouldn't dare because it's a very sensitive terrain to talk like that. After all, if the government has any doubts about such a thing, there are inspection authorities, there are NN applications and names and names, so what does the local prosecutor's office do, then what does the police do? But I'm not surprised anymore, because many hungry criminals are at large. Well, my people, 15 days ago, they broke into your RTS with that motor saw, that's still an MP, this one walks free, instead of all that you've done right, to show the power of the state, that whoever did it fits, and then finally gets a lawyer, so if he can defend himself. For these particular works, these are really very serious acts, dangerous to the state and society that these individuals have done. I go free and normal and in public transport and walk on the street, and where are they, who protects them? Even now, at the end of the day, the culmination of everything to accuse some public officials, and you have this traitor, Radu Trajkovic, who is seeking, please, the protection of the police, who is a direct accomplice to all these crimes and ultimately such a policy being carried out by the Cypriot criminals at KIM, is now being protected by the police and is being paid by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53973	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, I understand the desire that in a broader discussion of a number of different topics, which are considered to be interesting to the public, to throw out the first plan, although it certainly knows the amendment promoter, that even when we discussed this law on spatial planning, there was no question of legalisation, as it is now not about the Katastra strike. Both apply to something that is, I would say, of first-rate importance to the Republic of Serbia. So on ways to introduce additional efficiency in building line infrastructure facilities. So for citizens who listen, to understand that better, we talk about roads and stripes, to introduce additional efficiency where necessary. Indeed, it is when it comes to projects that are of special importance to the Republic of Serbia. So we adopt solutions, I hope as much as tomorrow, which will allow this efficiency to be achieved through the introduction of the possibility of a job being carried out in phases, that, when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, there is a permit that is after the basis to ensure funding. When funding is provided, part by piece, where the legal situation is regulated, so that the works can be carried out, that it doesn't wait all together, because it costs a lot of money. And here, that these jobs, which are directly related to what is done in Catastro, can literally, here, in a colloquitically speaking, be detached, because that waiting can be very long, and that waiting is costing a lot. What projects and why is it important to hear our citizens? Projects related to the plan from 2019 to 2021, as planned by the ministry, infrastructure projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia, estimated at around five billion euros. And now listen to what it's about. In the road infrastructure, in the construction of the highway, the Preljina-Požega section, about the construction of the Moravian Corridor, the Pojate-Preljina section, about the construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, the Fruskogorski Corridor, the Novi Sad-Ruma section, the Ruma-Sabac road, the Shabac-Loznica highway, etc. A fast traffic station, the construction of the Nis-Medara highway, a bypass around Belgrade, Kragujevac-Batocin. In the railway infrastructure, the fast track of Belgrade-Budapest, reconstruction of the line Jajnici-Mala Krsna, reconstruction of Nis-Dimitrovgrad, reconstruction of the Nis-Brestovac railway. When it's known, and it's known that this is literally tens of miles per track and thousands of different jobs related directly to Katastra, I think it's quite clear why we need to make these jobs more efficient. It is a clear interest of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens, if it means the regulation of the law in the right way, surely each of us will be able to support it. That this also has to do with these people who were mentioned during the debate, specifically those who marched with hangers on the streets of Belgrade, then broke into the RTS electric saws, acted vandally, broke doors, windows, destroyed inventory, threatened journalists, threatened to let them into the programme, otherwise they would probably use those electric saws to use the same ones that demoralize construction sites in downtown Belgrade and Calemegdan. They, I'm sure, with this kind of project can never have anything. So, those under one, they weren't able to do such important projects as building highways or high-speed tracks. Two, they didn't care. So they never thought about these things. What they were thinking very well about, those hundreds of millions of traffic in Gilas's companies testify to, those millions of euros that neither Mr. God can explain where Jeremic came from in his account from exotic destinations. What they were thinking and what they were hoping for, we know everything very well, we understand everything very well, and that's why they're where they are. To ask, that's what the amendment promoter mentioned - should we solve them? It will be as if the people had settled them permanently. The people settled permanently, among other things we see it by the fact that they are no longer allowed to move into this room. They must not look into that people's eyes, turn to them directly, and explain to them what they are doing to God, to explain what it looks like and what they want to do to this country when they literally have fascist methods on women, when they threaten people, when they destroy the property that belongs to all the citizens of this country. From the House of the National Assembly and other institutions have retreated where they consider themselves to be more of a place, which means that they announced in a park and in a forest, where they plan to camp and declare themselves to be some kind of parallel institutions. If they had already achieved the fate they deserved in some sense, it would have been proof of what happened yesterday. Yesterday, these fascists from Dvora were left without another parliamentary group. They've concluded that it all makes no sense together for a long time. And because they stole, come on themselves, that party they don't like to mention is a party, but it is, it's so registered, but the Latvians don't like to use that term, but it's their intimate thing. So, what they stole from themselves, they cheated and framed each other, so they argued, it's a small part of the problem, but what they accuse each other and accuse themselves of stealing the state, the budget, is clear evidence that they're going to lose their MPs and any other group. Not only in Saziv to this or to another, but he will lose his chance to win a single vote at any time. Look at their research, and if they themselves say that among those people who are gathering at Gilas's protests, 60% disgust all of them as politicians, and out of the others, 2% of them support Gilas, just as much as Radulovic, are as relevant, it's a little more relevant than Jeremic, and a little less than Dveri, and none of them among their supporters have 5%, that among their potential voters there is no censorship, it's quite clear to you, they are where they should be because they deserve it themselves. Not the people in Serbia, nor you, for whom Djilas, Jeremic and Obradovic think they can be deceived, neither will they cabadiahs, thugs, hooligans or thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53975	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53976	Thank you. I'd like to say something brief so that there's no explanation here. When he spoke, he spoke of a small number, not to generalise that everyone working in the Republic Geodetic Institute and in Catastro was corrupt, etc. Since I come from that base, since I've worked these professions and worked there my whole life, I know very well how to do, what is done, what is the quality of work and the effect of it all. Exactly what is said, no serious state can function well if the Republic Geodetic Institute or that profession does not work properly. Somewhere in different countries, it's different organized, but it's simply catastres, as popularly said, or the Republic Geodetic Institute, are the peace of mind in every chorba. It's just how the system was set up and it's not bad, but what's going on here? The legacy of many years exists in the Republic Geodetic Institute primarily at pay level. Whether certain receipts were allowed, whether they were right or wrong, but they had been going through for many years. It's a fact and it was essential that it go into legal flows. So that was ten years ago, 15 years ago, that's how it works. If someone is corrupt in the Republic Geodetic Institute, of course he should be responsible for that and enter into the legal procedure and that all the authorities responsible for this are carrying out the measures in accordance with the law. Everyone else isn't in that part and they don't need to be generalized. Secondly, it is very specific areas where there simply has to be certain specific knowledge and if that is the case and if there is 80% of the technical profession in that particular organization, it means that this job requires, I say, that specific knowledge. If the specific knowledge in this area is such, I think we need to consider whether this particular knowledge and that kind of work should perhaps be rewarded in a special way. That is why I propose that the Government and the Ministry and the Ministry of the Institute have a common position to propose and I do not think that the solution to this issue would be a problem for citizens or for the state as far as the Republic of Geodetic Institute is concerned. So, I simply because of one truth and the people who work there, should say it's like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53977	Thank you, fellow Matić. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will proceed with the work, the 13th item of the agenda. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53979	Mr. Chairman, a fellow member of the congregation earlier tried to explain that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Immobilization and Waters was a dry need. It even listed a number of infrastructure projects that were realised or implemented in progress. But we radicals don't buy these stories. That's not at all controversial. A man doesn't need to know the Minister of Construction, Traffic, Infrastructure, enough to look at the draft laws that come into the assembly procedure and see the dynamics of proposing amendments and supplementing that law and to conclude that the minister who runs this ministry doesn't look more than a meter ahead. I guess Mrs. Aleksandra Damjanovic has one problem, it's a little awkward now that I mention that name, she doesn't have the opportunity to answer, she has continuity in this ministry, from Velimir Ilic, Oliver Dulic, now Mrs. Mihajlovic, and you're probably sicker than these sudden changes in advances that don't produce any results. Nobody slows down any project. Look, look, Bratoljub bridged Drina with a tunnel, Belgrade closer to 50km. You're wondering why I'm talking about this for the second time today, and I don't envy it, but I'm even glad to hear that some parts of Serbia are opening new factories, building infrastructure facilities, and this is where the seven-year SNS is in power, not one single facility, not counting this bridge, is not done, no factory is yet in sight of opening. This bridge, which was completely completed in the construction sense, would mean a lot not only to the citizens of Love, but to the whole part, and the two states would connect, which is Republika Srpska, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then with the construction of the tunnel, the road to Belgrade would be up to 50km shorter. In this case, some investors may find this destination, as is often said, interesting and interesting. The main culprit, which is why, said the current president of the Republic of Serbia two years ago in Banja Luka, the only culprit for now is Zorana Mihajlovic, and that is when she says – we will now solve property-legal relations by being sufficient, or we will enter into the beginning of the construction, and it will be enough to resolve it until we use permission. The question is whether to solve it by then, this question if it hasn't been solved yet, then I'm not sure that anything she promises will be settled within some envisaged deadlines. You don't need to convince us how infrastructure facilities and factories our citizens need. It's really a fact, it's something that any normal person can only wish for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53980	Thank you, colleague Perich. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration Procedure of the Agency for Economic Registers You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments of the Republic of Rade, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and Ruzica Nikolic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53981	Thank you. Before this little break, we were discussing, here, we just finished that part of the Law on Immobilization, or the Bill of Law. Imagine, the law is called the Law on the registration procedure in the cataster of immovableity and water and colleagues who spoke before said that we were wrong in the debate on this law to talk about a strike in the cataster because the strike was not the subject of the law. Then the man talked. I just wrote down part of it, everything that has nothing to do with the cathedral and what it mentioned, so just now let me tell you which laws, Minister, should you suggest we follow that course. This is just one piece. So we could use the Law on the Sea Corridor, the Law on Tours around Belgrade, the Law on the Jajinci-Mala Krsna Strip, the Law on Marching with Hangels, the Law on Gilas's Companies, the Law on Camping in the Park, the Law on Fascists from Dvora, etc. As far as we're concerned, it's perfectly legitimate to talk about this within any part of the agenda, but at least it's unfair to draw attention to the MPs of the SRS talking beyond the agenda because they're talking about you in a painful topic about a strike in the cataster under the Law amending the Law on the procedure of a catastray of immovableity. So I just illustrated this to you how you think, how the arches are and what democracy means to you. When it comes to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Commercial Registers, these amendments are not essential and this is always the problem that you, when you start by making laws, do not think about the need to pass a comprehensive law. This law was passed in 2014 and you are now harmonising it in 2019 with the law that was passed in 2016 and now by emergency procedure. Emergency means that if this law doesn't happen as quickly as possible, who knows the consequences, some kind of catastrophic, drastic, dramatic, etc. But then what happened from 2016 to 2019? Why don't you get serious once when you're proposing these laws? We're constantly distracting you that we're doing this seriously and that you're making sure that you're doing it that way. We've also been through our amendments, as you've been harmonising this proposal with that 2016 law, and we've only been harmonising our amendments with some terminology, and then you say it doesn't affect the law because it's just some make-up, like that, you haven't used that term, and you're making up the law here, and then it's the law that needs to be discussed here. So you from the government as well as the majority of the congregation have to go more seriously to your work, don't live in the clouds, life is a miracle, change is common, people see everything, hear everything, so keep an eye out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53982	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53983	Thanks again. Since, on two occasions, it seems to me, he fell attention to what I said during the debate so far, about the previous law, we were talking about line infrastructure. So we're talking about paths and stripes. In this regard, I said that the direct benefit that is expected from the bill to introduce additional efficiency, to make what is of direct interest to the Republic of Serbia, and in this sense I said that this is an important topic, to be more efficient, to be cheaper and to be completed as soon as possible, in order to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, I also mentioned the highway and the Moravski Corridor, the Fruskogorski Corridor, different other traffic stations, forgot the amendment promoter to mention both the rapid railways and the resolution of different other directions. What does that have to do with what we're talking about? Well, absolutely every one. So it wasn't a bill of law on any strike, like the one about spatial planning wasn't about legalization. Both are related to large infrastructure projects. Five billion euros is the estimated value of all these important projects that we have talked about today. As the amendment promoter commented and the involvement of a state delegation headed by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic at a meeting in the People's Republic of China, directly related to these topics, today's news -- the competent minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, signed several agreements in Beijing today between Serbia and the People's Republic of China to realise projects in road and rail transport. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we're talking about today, it's signed. With the President "Cina Road and Bridge Corporation" he signed: The Protocol on Co-operation on the Project of the Frushkogorski Corridor, therefore, you do not need a special law, this is a good thing; for the fast traffickers of Novi Sad-Ruma, too, without the need to create a special law, another good thing and directly regarding the subject; the Framework Agreement on the Reconstruction and Modernization of the Belgrade-Niš-Presevo railway corridor, all the way to the border with Northern Macedonia; the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation for the realisation of the project on the construction of a bypass around Belgrade, the share of Bubanj Potok-Panchevo, etc., since there were questions what we are doing today on these topics, since there were issues which were intended to go to the People's Republic of China. We're good results from that visit, here, we haven't even finished the session, and we already have. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another reality in Serbia today, without having to re-engage the special laws relating to those wearing gallows, which are related to those who hooligan demolize construction sites in downtown Belgrade and in Calemgdan. I mentioned them exclusively because at that moment they were mentioned by the amendment promoter we discussed. And you know, one of the main reasons for these people's frustration is absolute political impotence. These people, therefore, are the absolute reality in Serbia today, the construction of new highways, the construction of fast roads, and the factories that we talked about a minute or two ago, will never be able to get anywhere near. These people will never be able to boast of the data, and this government and governments who support Serbian Progressive Party MPs can, that from 2014 to 2018, 295km of new highways have been built in this country, that the highway route has been paved through the Grdelička clisur for over 26 km, that is Corridor 10, and on Corridor 11 has been released in traffic of 40 and more kilometers of the Ljig-Preljina section, 12 km on the ipilon arm, built the Michael Pupin Bridge, built the Ljubovija-Bratunac Bridge, which we also talked about today, the extended border crossing of Batrovci and it is only one segment of infrastructure. I, ladies and gentlemen, am only telling you what I see as the clearest point from this brief report at the top of one side, and these sides have a lot. We can talk about these parties all day and continue tomorrow. These are things Serbia can afford today, these are things Serbia is providing today, to its people and to its children. And these are things that they will never be able to pair up Gilas, his little gardener, their fascists from Dvora and all the others who fled from the National Assembly to the park across the street, still from here taking both travel expenses and salaries and living quarters paid by the people in Serbia. These things will never be able to compete, not with their gallows, not with the beating of women, not with motor saws. These people have remained deeply stuck in the past, as today they dream of being some 90s, because they hope that there will be a little more chance for them and that they will be young again and perhaps as beautiful as they used to be. They are relics of last century and dark times in which Serbia will not return. In contrast to them, Alexander Vukic, a third millennium man who realizes these things like this, and you know what's good, will continue to realize them so successfully that these fascists, with or without laws, will never have a chance in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53984	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 12th amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53985	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have tabled on Article 12 reads that instead of the text: "delivering written cancellation of a decision" is replaced by the text "delivering written withdrawal of a decision", because the written and written ones have different meanings. Then, I would like to make a few suggestions on the work of the APR, and they are related to the removal from the register, if the entrepreneur does not provide assurance of the competent tax authority’s tax administration that, on the date of issue of the assurance, the entrepreneur does not have an unsettled tax obligation on the basis of the income tax on the performance of the independent activity and contribution to pension and disability insurance, which is not more than five days old at the time of submission of the request for removal from the register and assurance or the need for the tax administration of the local self-government unit, which confirms that on the day of the confirmation, the entrepreneur does not have an unsettled obligation on the basis of local municipal taxis and similarity, and if the entrepreneur does not deliver these credents, the APR will not delete from the register. By law, the debt of entrepreneurs to third parties falls on the burden of a natural person established by an enterprise. This means that unsettled taxes and contributions fall on the burden of the founders of the enterprise. The debt of entrepreneurs is created because entrepreneurs do not have the money to settle their obligations to the state, and this process of closing the state makes them into an even bigger debt. For example, the entrepreneur decided to close the store, did not pay taxes and contribute for several months because he had no funds, because he had no business, and the APR will not close because taxes and contributions have not been settled. In this way, it drives them into greater debt, as large tax interest is also accounted for. An entrepreneur should be allowed to close the store and to establish a debt that the owner will pay in several wars, because the biggest drivers of the economy are small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs should be encouraged not to give up on entrepreneurship and not to force them into debt slavery. Then, what happens on the day the final accounts are handed over, and often happens that the system in the APR falls because too many users at that time send final accounts and in that case should extend the deadline for the next working day unless the system has worked for more than one hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53986	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53987	Well, in order for Mrs Nikolic to be able to say a little bit to my colleague, let's say in Kragujevac entrepreneurs do so, to address Srdjan Milivojevic, the brother-in-law of Radomir Nikolic, who was a prominent member... (Verica Radeta: Which Srdjan Milivojevic? ) The Resistance guy? ) No Resistance, and this one is also called Srdjan Milivojevic, was a prominent member of G17+ in Kruševec, but he was brother-in-law of Radomir Nikolic. That's a nice guy who dresses in the Kragujevac Tax Administration. So if you want to exercise the right and the law that we have voted here, i.e. you, on the reprogramme of what is being spoken of by my colleague Nikolic, so that someone can delete himself from the register and that these people are entrepreneurs who are for various reasons, which, in other circumstances, are unable to continue doing the job, and they have some tax debt, of course, that the APR will realise that this is not possible, because there is this debt in the tax administration. However, this gentleman does not disrespect that law, but particularly defies the city, from which it is not even, which is very important, because he does not even know the economic operators in the city in such a way, cutting off anyone he wants or so. She has a sister-in-law, she mentioned a colleague of Radeta, she came from Jagodina, same Radomer Nikolic, and that pump of friends, and that's why the city I live in and where I was born is ruined, because such an incompetent person is at the head of the city government. As for this amendment and a very important issue, Mr. Djordjevic, it is a question of harmonising the APR records, the Agency for Business Registers and Obligations which they had and the competent authorities related to the deadline which expired on 31 January of this year and concerning the records of the real owners. I am now interested – are you familiar with this, has this job been successfully completed, the law was passed in June of last year, so by the end of January of this year, to record real owners? Why would I point that out? It is precisely because you too are faced with those who do not attend the meetings of the Assembly in all these structures, he saw what kind of machinations were all about Vuk Jeremic, and then don't be surprised if he has another, along with his board of fraud, another company that is connected to him. Did you succeed, therefore, that would be important for citizens and all regular economic operators to record whether the owners of individual companies are real owners? Did you do that with the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia to prevent money laundering? Because if you haven't cross-referenced all that data from the APR and the equity records and the Money Laundering Authority, then don't tell us that the fight against corruption is in motion. Is, you know, all of this has to be clearly defined. In normal, developed countries, first they're going to ask you about the origin of the capital, and then maybe you're going to settle some obligations. Of course, it is important to them that each of their taxes and other obligations to the state, according to the local self-government unit, settles in time. But that origin of capital, so you know, you, too, travel, Mr. Marinkovic, to various countries and you know it protects the sovereignty of a country. What does that mean? Uncontrollable capital influence, a variety of companies, how do we know who they brought in, for example, the Ship's terrorists named that and the one they sent to launder drug money and those drug cartels? That's why it's very important for the competent state authorities, including ministers, to come out with that information whether it was finally possible to get rid of it and whether it was actually checked out, because otherwise, everyone will be able to do whatever they want. When someone comes, we are, therefore, in order to fully liberalise the employment of foreigners, we talked about it yesterday, but whether it's our resident or whether it's a foreigner when he comes to the Agency for Economic Registers, he has to bring only certain documentation and by some logic things in three or five working days, mostly those services do it well and are really effective, a solution is issued on the registration of the business register. And what's behind that is now a question for all the ones I've been talking about in this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53988	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Law on mobile things entered in the register. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Ružica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Nemanja Sarović, Petar Petrovic, Petar Jojic and Aleksandar Seselj. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53989	This is the bill, as it is written in our explanation, submitted by the World Bank's order, and we are simply creeping ourselves more into this obedient attitude of yours, whatever anyone asks you from the white world, you have, here's the law, here's the bill, and what this law has nothing to do with reality, which has nothing to do with the application in the Republic of Serbia, which is in conflict with some of our other regulations, the Constitution often, you just don't care. These additions, i.e. the amendments, are really purely something of order, nothing essential, so you've changed the title, and then the Law on Publishing Rights on Moving Things is listed in the register, plus – things and rights, as if something is fundamentally changing now. Since the law was passed in 2003, how could it have been all these years, there is no need for everything that is the subject of the law to be written in the title itself. The title doesn't have to be that way, but it's interesting your argument, you don't accept the amendment, and then you explain that the bill is, the name of the law is complemented and this word is added, and that's an explanation for why you don't accept the amendment. We say, well, that's exactly why you should accept. We've told you several times, try to resist us once with arguments, not an empty story, as you've explained here, that one of the demands of the World Bank that would lead to a better positioning of the Republic of Serbia, is to be described and provided by the claim to be specified, without precise information on each case and any claim, which is partly deviating from the current principle of speciality. So, gentlemen of the law, I don't have to read to you again, but this is something that is absolutely unacceptable and that you allow yourself to write everything that comes to your mind, and then do you think that this isn't read, that this isn't left and in permanent archives, it's just not normal. So we won't vote for these changes. If you think something really needs to change in the law, then it's nice after all these years, so the law is from 2003, and the last change in 2011, although in this area, in the area of hostage law regulated by the Law on Bond Relations, there are no dramatic changes, but if you think you want to do something, then suggest new laws, so let's take this issue seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53990	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SNS, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I guess life teaches us that no law is perfect, and when it comes into application, it shows some of its shortcomings. The second thing, I guess, is that we're progressing civilizationally, so there's a need for certain laws to change, or adapt to a factual state. In particular, what always appears is one resistance, if one of the international financial institutions has proposed to the best extent something to the government of Serbia to solve a problem in some law, always sets out, let me say, this suspiciousness, that all of this is done in the interest of the banking sector, as if the banks are the only trustees in the state. I agree that they may be the largest number of banks, as well as all those involved in certain activities, during their business relationship and the creation of a debtorial relationship seek certain guarantees that for their goods or services that deliver it will be paid as well. Therefore, it is required that this law determine exactly what is the subject of the supply, its description, and thus that he who does the goods or the traffic of goods or services, and seeks a guarantee that will not be a bond, which is often uncharging, means that he is to be aware of what is given as a guarantee to him. I don't see anything controversial in this part, I don't see that particular resistance, the laws are being applied, they show their shortcomings. I just still don't understand how the 2003 laws are so sorry, why the 2003 laws change, the question arises, when we know well what kind of regime and on whose orders such laws are basic in 2003?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53992	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Verica Radeta. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53993	Yes, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a member who speaks of the right to replication. You really gave up the line for no reason at all. I, when I spoke, did not mention anyone by name or last name, nor did I mention the MP's group, nor did I mention the man of the third millennium, anyone for whom you should give the replica. I was talking about the World Bank. This man isn't. I was talking about lawyers. This man isn't. I was talking about the regime that passed the law in 2003, I don't know what it has to do with it, really. But we didn't say we had any regrets about the 2003 law, we said it was inadmissible for us to play with the bill's proposals, that when anyone gets a warrant from a white world there, then here it is, change one member, two and a half members, three members. We say, isn't it a good law? Here's a whole new proposal. That's what we said about this law, but a colleague who identified himself with the World Bank, with lawyers, with the former regime, obviously didn't listen to anything, so he didn't even hear us say, propose a new law, intend to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53994	Thank you. And you're right. Of course, it can't be identified with the World Bank, but it can be with the ruling majority, and you said it yourself that you mentioned the government and... You don't listen to me either. What's wrong with you people? I listened carefully. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting, and also in the democratic spirit in which we work, of course, it is right. Unfortunately, I didn't have lunch. [[The Faith of Radeta: You ate too much on the break, so now you're not listening.]] Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) No, no, no, Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53995	Article 107. Rules of Procedure, dignity of the National Assembly. Well, it doesn't change government laws, they can propose. The laws are changed by the National Assembly, and let one MP tell me that someone ordered him to do something from the World Bank, that he must vote for this law. Here, I claim no one has been ordered. So it's a matter of the MPs and their convictions. Now, whether it's good for the citizens and the state or not, but no one has ordered any MP to vote against. It is exclusively on the consciences of the MPs. It happened that MPs belonging to the SNS parliamentary group felt that some laws were not in line with their understanding of regularity. They voted against it, and no one told them anything. So, don't violate the dignity of the National Assembly and the integrity of the MPs, they are bearers of the sovereignty of citizens and no one can challenge them, no political party. That is why the imperial mandates have been abolished, so that the MP, at his free will, would make decisions as to how he would vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53996	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I've worked really hard, and I'm trying not to undermine the integrity of any MP. You don't want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day, thank you for that. Moving on, to the next amendment. The amendment to Article 2 was submitted by National MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53997	Now that the discussion was opened here and Mr. Martinovic was inspired and Mrs. Radeta and this is Sreto Peric, who has the lawyers to speak about Publishing Law, we could hear anything from practice and their different interpretations. What you are doing by amending this law is something that is not in favour of either the borrower or the debtor, for the simple reason that executive judgments that would be applied and applied in the process when the stock is entered, do not contribute, mainly to those who have long waited for a solution to a dispute. We are against anything that can be solved in a different way than that the perpetrator appears and what the state, which the public perpetrators and to take away someone's property. It says here in this law that what is the subject of Hostage Law can be published and sold the way it is bidted and it is truly sad that today in the country of Serbia there is one website that advertises the name, therefore, only one recognizable word that is common and in the people when it tells someone that this property is sold out, where it is advertised, here's a Bud-Why, in 30, 40% of the price buy a house, a place, something else that is the subject of a law, and it's the right to mortgage on certain things, or on what the trustee is looking for. And now the question is -- how do we avoid and how do we speed up the work of the courts in litigation proceedings where people can't exercise their rights for many years, where simply by obstructing them, mostly, the judges who belong to this yellow Corps, because they were appointed at that time, now these new generations that are coming and who have entered the judicial duties, if they justify themselves, we'll see it in the future the trust they've been given. It's easy for us to talk here and deal with these cosmetic amendments to the law, as well as essential ones that will not in legal practice improve this area. What a simple man who goes to a lawyer, begs him, a lawyer tries to solve it, one side obstructs, so he doesn't show up. These are the problems where these assets are devalued which are the subject of these debt-trust relations. In that sense, you need to think about how to not only stick to, as the colleague said - a mere EU directive to pass this law, and to extend the subject of the stocks that are entered in the Register in terms of terms, in terms of what is more, which is what this member is talking about, but to improve efficiency and to influence your authority that they are doing their job properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53998	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u53999	The common man we have just touched is indeed in the focus of our interest and is the basis of our motivation to deal with laws like this proposed. So, the citizens of Serbia and their needs. It has been said here that the bill is defined because the World Bank requires it. To be precise, it is not at all any request, it is one of the things that due to Serbia's progress on the "Ding Business List" and the "Ding Business List" form the World Bank. We want to arrange in a different way, so that as a direct consequence we have further progress on Serbia's "Duing Business List". I would like to remind you that several years ago, with a literal stage step, so to speak, those governments supported by the SNS began to make significant dramatic progress by Serbia on the Duing Business List. I think we're starting somewhere around the regular number 100 and in a few years we've managed to make progress by more than 50 seats. That's very important. We, implementing reforms in our country, have managed to advance from year to year, over 50 places. It's a serious result, and it's an important venture, so that at the end of last year we'll face the fact that even though we're making progress, we have some things to do faster. Some reforms we're conducting, but we need to do everything we're planning faster, so that it can be established to publish new reports like this Duing business. Also, we're facing the fact that other countries are working. So they're trying to make progress, and just because someone put it in the fifth or sixth gear, we're still doing good things, but we risk losing our spot on that Duing business list. So our clear goal, the unequivocal goal of making better progress, is to move faster than ever before, even though we have done a great job once again. This recommendation concerns directly what is quoted from the reasoning, the need to create a single legal framework in particular in this area. We're getting to our regular man. Why does it matter to him how the state is listed on that list? Because that's what investors are looking at. Because all those who come here are opening factories, which directly provides a job for that common man. A reward for those who did not have bread on the table, but also an opportunity for one's children to have textbooks and shoes and other things that do life, to provide these things. One of the right ways is to provide for ourselves, i.e. to ensure that Serbia is best placed on this list. This list is viewed by investors from Europe, but also from around the world, but one of the great things I would like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs and also with the citizens of Serbia, today Serbia is the official state that has the best co-operation with the People's Republic of China when it comes, among other things, to investments from all Southeast European countries. We can be proud of that. For a reason proud and this is one of the direct consequences of the serious work done for this country by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, our Government, and we from the National Assembly are making some of our own small contributions, among other things, and working on those solutions that make our country more competitive, and that is, among other things, this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54000	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54001	Thank you, Your Honor. According to the amendment, I also report on the discussion of my colleague Vladimir Orlic and everything he said about investments and their importance for the development of our country and for new jobs and for what it is and the strategic goal and plan and everything that we have been the ruling majority and we have been fighting for these few previous years. It is precisely for an ordinary man, for his well-being, for the possibility that every man, every family, has the opportunity to work, to make good money, to have equal employment conditions, but also to create a good business environment where our country and our public administration will be effective, to be effective and to create the best possible conditions for private investors, both small and large. We investors, and you said that nicely, colleague Arsic a moment ago, we don't share on the domestic side or on the small or on the big side, every investor is important to us. Every job is important, every company, every company, whether it opens five jobs, ten, fifty or a thousand jobs, which the CTF opens in Pancheva or a billion-dollar investment that will be made by China's Ling Long in Zrenjanin, is as important to us for every job, we fight for every investment, as well as perhaps some tailor or textile factory from Turkey who will employ here 20, 30 or 50 people. Why does it matter to us? Because it is very important for us to have this ordinary man in Serbia, every student is important to us, every young man who attends a high school that we want to provide the opportunity to get a job in his profession. With dual education, too, it is one of the very, very important and important tools to coordinate the work of the economy and our education, to bring it together, not to do as we did in previous years without any strategy, without any vision, to teach dozens, hundreds, thousands of people who will never get a chance to get a job, and only because those who ran the resolution ministries didn't do their job, because they didn't really care about that common man, that young man of ours who needs to get a job tomorrow, who needs to get a good salary, should start a family here, to stay in this Serbia. The goal of President Vukic and we here representing the ruling majority is not economic growth and economic development, new jobs due to economic growth, but because there are more of us, to speed up our demographic characteristics, to strengthen Serbia, and Serbia can only be strengthened in a way that for the next 20, 30, 40 years there are 10 million of us here. I will remind you that Israel is a country that can be in many, many aspects of our role modeling. In 1948 when they gained their independence of 500,000 inhabitants, the country now has 10 million and is one of the most developed, wealthy states and military strongest states in the world. Serbia has dozens, hundreds of times more potential. It has potential in natural resources, it has a great geo-political position. What is most important, Serbia has people, has good quality people, has valuable people, has qualified workforce, has highly educated people who can adapt to the fourth industrial revolution, who can adapt to making more than a billion euros in Serbia from information technologies and work in companies dealing with information technologies. We can create, as we do, more than a billion euros in tourism and develop those branches that are not labour intensive, but also as opposed to those who laugh at us and who do not imitate those who say they are rolling cables; every job is important to us and we know that it is important for the citizen and every family in Surdulica, Vladic's Han, Pirot, undeveloped parts of Serbia, Kruknju where President Vukic opened a factory that employs 500 people, textiles. It's also important to start with 300 and 400 euros because the whole family can live on that salary and if it earns 300 and 400 tomorrow if the company develops it can earn 800, 900 and 1000. We can come up with an average that our country and our citizens deserve, which is the average of the countries of Central Southeast Europe, the Visegrad Group. I, of course, advocate as a national MP for even greater and closer co-operation with the Visegrad Group countries because these are countries that record excellent economic growth, which have developed their economy perfectly and we can be just as fast on their level as we can. I will remind you, and I will end up never forgetting what my colleague Veroljub Arsic said, with 157th place on the ranking list, Duing Business List, we are in 11th place today and in 2018 Serbia had three and a half billion euros of foreign direct investment. The entire Western Balkans region, plus Croatia which is a member of the EU, has had 3.35 billion and someone will tell us that it is not a success and someone will tell us that what we are doing is wrong. Someone, like these today, will go and raid construction sites here in Belgrade, thinking that it will support the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not politics, and that citizens do not support this public opinion research in the past few days and show. Serbia will remain on the path of economic reforms, political reforms and jobs will be what will be the focus of both the president of the Republic and the government and, of course, our majority in parliament. I must say freely, and I would agree with some colleagues, that those who wish to destroy, that those who would surround and threaten the work of both private and state-owned companies here in Belgrade and across Serbia, would not be allowed to do so, because the people of Serbia do not want it, because the people and the citizens of Serbia want Serbia to develop and it is very nice and they must all and the opposition to admit that it is very nice when you see hundreds of construction sites and hundreds of Bulgarians here in Belgrade. That's the Serbia we made. This is Serbia, expected by growth and expected by the real future in the coming years, the future in the EU and the future of a country that is economically developed, which is militaryly developed, which has good weapons, which has strong defence forces, which can defend its territorial integrity and sovereignty, a country that wants to co-operate with all. Also, of course, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate some ministers today who have signed very large contracts in China, and also that minister of which there have been many, many words in a negative context today, has signed a contract today on tours in Belgrade. That's what, in any case, represents our work of all here, a concrete result. All those others who are criticizing who are talking, the people have seen it, the more absolutely neither who wants to listen nor who wants to vote. People want to vote for a concrete policy, for people who have a national interest, for leaders, for people who are statesmen. It's us, it's President Alexander Vucic, it's our ruling coalition. We will continue to insist on this and give strong and full support to such a policy in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54002	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54003	Just so there's no confusion, Mr. Marinkovic, just before I spoke about the Duing Business List, I did not say that Serbia is in the world's 11th overall ranking. In the overall ranking, it seems to me, according to the latest data, about 48, but when you look at individual categories, building permits, there's 11 in the world. So that's right. And, of course, it has to do with these things we talked about today. So, Serbia does not stand, when the world frameworks and world practice are looked at, badly on the issue. On the contrary, we really are the 11th in the world in the opinion of the World Bank and this list. The other thing you mentioned, I think it's more important. What is what we do for Serbia today and what is what we can expect in the perspective? Just a meeting in the People's Republic of China, therefore, an important gathering for our country, the state delegation is personally led by Aleksandar Vukic and one of the main topics is the contract to build an industrial park in Borca. A day or two ago Mr. Mali spoke of it, I mean right here in this room. According to what we expect from this facility and this programme, it could roughly be about a thousand different companies and it could be roughly 10,000 new jobs. And call this assessment optimistic, let it be fulfilled only in action, so it'll be fantastic. Let it be fulfilled only in the work, it will be precious for our country and precisely for that common man you spoke of both you and Mrs Radeta and Mrs Jovanovic. It's important and it's things that I think are completely real. What is my proof, what do I consider to be a stock that Serbia will succeed in reaching? So everything we've already done. You remember how much everyone laughed, how sneerly they threw at our plans stories, about Jellyzar and Bor, these former regime members, who, as far as I can tell, are not in the O.R., but they're probably hunting flies there in the parks and forests. It doesn't matter what they do. So we managed to get a 1.6 billion investment in Bor. We were able to save the entire area around Smederev. And we did, indeed, thanks to good understanding, to the hearing of our Chinese partners, but much more importantly, thanks to the responsible work and the ability to find solutions for Serbia useful, by Alexander Vukic, of course, by the government he supports and which, with pride, I must add, support, among other things, the SNS. I think I made that clear from a little while ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54004	Right on line, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54005	I'll just have a brief, final speech from my colleague Orlic. We agreed that according to some parameters Serbia is in the 11th place of Duing Business List of the World Bank and I just want to clarify one thing with him and with all my colleagues here, and that is actually the importance and importance of Duing Business List of the World Bank for Investments and for Serbia's progress. You mentioned, colleague Orlic, large investments by Chinese companies and this is very important and very important for both Serbia and the whole region. You mentioned investment in RTB Bor, you mentioned investment in Smederevo. I'll just add investment to the Belgrade railway – Budapest, but I'll add, because I think it's unfair only to say that it's a railway and that it's the Belgrade railway – Budapest. It is Belgrade-Budapest-Bratislava-Brno, heading to Poland, to Warsaw. This is what will provide Serbia with another opportunity and breakthrough, define it as a central country of this region and a breakthrough in the markets of Central Europe and fully Western Europe, and hence, since we have Chinese investors, Serbia will become one of the main bridges, in fact, the People's Republic of China and its companies towards Central Europe and the countries of the Visegrad Group and, of course, Western Europe. What I also want to point out is that all the serious investors, and we have many, well mentioned, huge investments, and hopefully we will continue with that, hopefully those who have no policy and who have ever had any investment, had it in their own pocket. The one we call a colleague, who received an investment from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin of $200,000, a donation of nearly five million. I guess the guy's some kind of innovator, maybe you're an engineer, a colleague of Orlic, maybe he came up with some kind of innovation, some added value, so he charged it, I don't know, nobody knows where that donation came from. We have real investments and we expect in Serbia and Folkswagen and new companies from the United States, the People's Republic of China and the whole world. I want to conclude that we have received this status exclusively and thanks to the international good positioning of our country over the past few years. What Alexander Vukic made through his personal contacts with Si Giping, with Mike Pens, with Angela Merkel and with all the world leaders, Benjamin Netanyahu, Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. This led us to last year's celebration of Victory Day with Netanyahu and Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin as one of the three leaders who celebrate victory, the great victory of the free peoples over fascism, and today and tomorrow and during this summit in China is one of the leaders who will open this first panel at that summit and at this big conference, but also one of the three leaders who will conclude that panel. Now, this is Serbia, a small country, a small number of people, relatively poor, but a country rising from ash, as a phoenix, which raises its economy thanks to good leadership, thanks to good economic policy and thanks, finally, to the leader who brought Serbia to that place that belongs to it in this region and across Europe. Today Serbia is a respected country. Today Serbia is a country in which investors want to invest and a country that everyone in the world respects. Serbia is not like the former problem and the country on the table. Serbia today is part of all possible solutions in this region, dedicated to regional co-operation, dedicated to economic development, but also to a country that everyone respects today and we see that little by little those we considered as enemies of Serbia, change their minds today, want to hear Serbia, want to hear the arguments of the Republic of Serbia. This is because as a country and as our president, we have one very important, or two traits that are most important in international relations. It's cheek and it's reliability. We are reliable partners, and this is why our foreign partners recognized and therefore Serbia expects a bright future according to all the parameters we have talked about, and in line with all those we plan to do in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54006	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54007	Nothing controversial, Mr. Marinkovic, but I just feel the need to react to one thing. You mentioned Vuk Jeremic as a man who received various suspicious transfers and you don't know where and you don't know what, and that's all true. So, there's only one thing I'm responding to right now. I think you told our colleague. So, absolutely none of us colleagues are with that man. You know who his company is. His company is that of his business partner, the white-world thief Patrick Ho, who currently holds a fine in the United States. Right? The wolf Jeremic, to remind you, has received these millions so that neither today when you ask him – from whom or for what, he can answer any of your questions, but from various television studios. He once says, "I received it from the company, and I'm not from their institute, so elsewhere he says, "No, I'm just not from the Institute." On the third, they gave me both. He doesn't know who he's talking about anymore or what he can't say. I think it's gonna be the last one, and then he makes up that he's a member of the board of directors, as he said, of all kinds of big companies around the world. After you ask them if it's true, they wonder, they get baptized practically to the left and right, they say, "No, where did that come from?" So with a man like that, I'm sure, it was a mistake, one lapus was it, we weren't any colleagues. It is known who his colleagues and his society are in Serbia. The ones I said earlier were probably chasing flies across the park. I've established something more accurate where they are in the meantime. They're at a construction site in the Republic Square, and you know what they're doing? Believe it or not, they're squatting in some channel that people have dug up there and are protesting and they've decided to squat for 12 hours in that channel, because that way they're going to stop the work they think is harmful and dangerous. Let them squat until the day after tomorrow, just let them do it in a channel in front of their own house, let them not block the development of the city, let them not block the development of the state, and, above all, let them not destroy, let them spare the traffic signs and fences by the construction site, let them not break anyone's property, first of all, let the people of others touch and of them is more than enough. What's more important, and it'll be my last sentence, in one thing you were without a mistake right. Serbia is experiencing differently in the world today for one reason that Serbia today shows that it takes care of itself, takes care of its own interests. Serbia is showing self-respect today. That is why Serbia today, led by Aleksandar Vukic, deserves respect for other actors in the world. And to compare with that cloth made by Serbia's Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic in serving these Ljotics, fascists and others who were there out of the interest of the personal pocket. The comparison can't be done. It is as far as heaven from the earth, and the people see it first and foremost. That's why the Bastic cannot collect as many as a thousand and a half votes for the elections in Belgrade, and Jeremic, the great genius of the world rank in his eyes, has succeeded one thing, has managed to be more insignificant politically even than that and such Bastic. It's their level, and we're dealing with these matters that are important to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54008	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54009	Dear Vice President Arsic, of course I will support the government's position and the law in general, and I am pleased to say that some colleagues and colleagues have seen, let me say, the depth of Serbia's modernisation that has been going on since 2014. Remember only in 2014 when Serbia's modernisation plans were hit, some made jokes on account of it. Unfortunately, they're not in this tall home today. Of course, every investment, whether foreign or domestic, was important, but respected ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I noticed something in this high house and this assembly's call, which is that in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, Serbia has never had a weaker part of the opposition gathered in the Alliance for Serbia, as I call them in a call for another Serbian robbery. Never in Serbia's history has much of the opposition happened, i.e. those who are gathered in the Alliance for Serbia are committed to nelados, i.e. against the construction of factories, roads, highways, squares, hospitals, schools, and here they are today stopping works in the Republic Square. Imagine, Bastache, you've seen who this man is. At no elementary school in our most remote Serbian neighborhoods, he would not be a school porter, not the president of Belgrade's town municipality. So one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, called Zoran Zivkovic, a farmer in an attempt, according to my colleague Risticevic, pleaded, believed or not, and you citizens remember very well that Željara Smederevo is being closed, and workers are being released, driven home. Remember the show? Look at how this factory works today. He also advocated the closure of RTB Bor, and you see what's done. I'll list two more, three of the alliances for the second robbery of Serbia, so you can see that in Serbia's history, the opposition, part of the opposition, has never fought against work, like those in the Alliance for Serbia. One of their leaders is Vuk Jeremic, a wolf descendant, who is a member of an international gang of thieves and frauds in which his two best friends, Patrick Ho and Sheikh Gadio Tidian, are arrested and one sentenced to prison. You've seen that these days and the third on the Interpol warrant, etc. Dragan Gilas, a.k.a. Giki Mafia, did not steal, but 750m euros during the time he was... (Chairman: Time, Professor. Finish your sentence. In the end, let me finish, Sergei Trifunović. I'm not talking about him, but just let me, Vice President, say what his colleague said about him. I quote: “Unwashed, lying Sergei. That's your leader. He's always been a sneaky liar, always in the same way he drags me into his tabloid, stinking life. He always licked my ass, got a gold medal to suck my ass. He always lied, always smelled, always scratched for money, a meal and a drink. He's never washed, he's always cheated on his colleagues." His colleague Biljana Srbanovic, 12 January 2019, one of the daily papers, page one. These are the ones that are not here today, and they are ashamed to come to the congregation. Last sentence, Mr. President. To them, this tall home, as well as those who criticize me now, was a passing station.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54010	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54011	I'm reporting on the basis of Article 27, but most of all for the public. It doesn't bother us, and it's common knowledge, in the SRS, to debate in the National Assembly, to talk about all sorts of topics. We're about to get out of a strict, determined agenda. We are for MPs not to be limited in time or in the subject, but we are for it to be a principle of work and to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure, not when it suits someone. You, you know, today you wanted to make the people think that we've been doing serious work all day, so instead of ending up at two and fifteen, we're seriously waiting to work, talking about amendments, here listening to half an hour -- I'm listening to you, Duke, you're serdaring me from the same club. So there are two parliamentary groups, but the same club. It's just inappropriate. It can be cute sometimes, etc. You know, you repeat the same stories, you don't know anymore, so you spin, just so you know you have to talk for seven minutes and then you talk, you talk, you talk. Take some nice songs, patriotic, so recite next time, one of you, when you use time like that. Don't let people play with the National Assembly. I don't know if you know that the Law on Publishing Law, amendments and additions to that law are on the agenda. Nobody said anything about that. You have no amendment to the subject, nor did you speak of it in principle. Again, I repeat, your legitimate right and we support the widest possible democracy in the National Assembly, but we're trying to draw your attention to you, that in relation to possibly some people who see us as not creating the impression of sadness, that people really see that this is the National Assembly and that here we are discussing some of the suggestions that we have here in front of us with respect to the possibility of this being much wider, etc. So, please, best of all, let us finish this nicely. Don't make us because we can't stand to be mocked this way, so we can pack up nicely and leave. You and I don't need this. Don't do that, really. Let's get this work done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54012	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I guess we too have the right, even though we belong to the ruling majority, to have some ideological differences and any other and to discuss it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. You signed up for Dr. Rancic, but the parliamentary group has no more time. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. He's not here. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54013	The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecuted Law on Moving Things entered in the Register is in the most difficult relationship with the Duing Business List. You said that Serbia was in 157, 47 in general, and 11 in the issue of building permits. I must warn you, dear colleagues and you, Mr. Minister, slow down a bit, you'll go down a notch. This is how it goes, at what rate you're going, you're going to be under zero very soon, and then that's already a little more serious problem. It is not true, colleagues, that Serbia is as respected as you are. I'm not saying that there are certain shifts and no one like Serbian radicals can look forward to the success of any individual or any state body in Serbia, such as us, and when I tell you that it's not true that Serbia is so respected, I have to do one fact that doesn't suit me... Remember only Savindan, a certain number of packages that have been tried to divide children living in KIM and are of Serbian origin. They've been kidnapped. They've been kidnapped by the scepters, and if Serbia enjoyed some of the reputations that you think, someone would intervene. No one intervened. That's one truth, and we have to accept it, which doesn't mean that concrete individual, individual co-operation, whenever we have the opportunity to do it with someone, that we shouldn't do it. Why do foreign companies and foreign investors appear in Serbia? Only because of your own interest. Never in favour of Serbia. You say, "If someone else did something different." Well, let's accept that fact, too. You remember when we had an official delegation from India, that President Aleksandar Vukic said – go to any other country and if he offers you better conditions than Serbia, you come back, we will offer you even better conditions. This is what attracts probably foreign investors – the best and most favourable conditions. Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54014	Here you go. Veroljub Arsic, mentioning the ruling party, the ruling structure. Here's a colleague of Arsic's. (The Faith of Radeta: What's the matter with you? It represents the ruling party, my colleague. We're not going to end democracy here in parliament right now. It doesn't make sense. Here you go, buddy. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs with a colleague who spoke before me about whether Serbia is respected in the world or not. If he'd said everyone in the world didn't love us all, I'd understand that, and there are, still. But to respect us all seriously, that's true and that's more than in the last 20 years, even 30 years since the break-up of SFRY. It is also evident that no serious political issue in the Western Balkans can be resolved without the participation and contribution of the Republic of Serbia. I guess that's what we're interested in most. I guess we're interested in that region where we live. When someone mentions a foreign company, let them tell me if they're thinking about "Phillips", "Simens", or maybe they're thinking about "Hestil" or maybe even thinking about "Gasprom". Say it loud and clear are you against having Hestil in Sartide in Smedereva, are you against having "Gasprom" in NIS? It's the same foreign company. You can't -- we like this, we don't like this, we're gonna talk about this, and we're gonna praise these. Forget about the concept that someone in the congregation is going to shut you up. One more thing. It's natural for someone to want to make money. It's his interest. Our interest is to hire our citizens. Our interest is that our citizens work, receive wages, start their families, give birth to children who will stay in Serbia, and those who advocate only one-sided politics and only one-way politics may one day make it come true, but unfortunately in Serbia there will be no one left, we will disappear as a people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54017	Mr. Marinkovic, if I were a little scarier, I'd be scared. I've known my colleague Arsic for two decades, and I know he's a peaceful man, and I don't know why he's raised his voice now. When it comes to co-operation with the Russian Federation, China, India, Brazil and many other countries, the SRS has insisted for three decades that the best possible co-operation be established with this and a number of other countries. Mr Arsic, if it hadn't been for the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, after returning from his official journey, the factory, or Želizar in Smederjev, is the question of who would be the boss of it today. You remember well, rather than after several press conferences held by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, Dr. Vojislav Seselj then went in the other direction, in the other direction, and we are not against co-operation, but I tell you, and we are not about not having their own interests, so no one and no one loves us too much to come here without their own interest, but there are countries that are natural friends of Serbia and the Serbian people, and we need first of all to establish co-operation and surely they will never fool us and will certainly not look at their own and exclusively their own benefit, while some other countries are doing so. Do not swear too much and explain Serbia's terrible success on this list, so at least you remember that Mladjan Dinkic was named the finance minister in Europe. So, what were the financial consequences for both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia? Now that we're 11 per building permit issue, is that maybe not the black top, so somewhere around 1,000 squares of that facility couldn't get a license, and somewhere around 40 squares belonging to the Raška municipality got a building permit? What's this about? Did that possibly qualify us from 157 places to 11 places when it comes to the speed of issuing building permits?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54018	Thank you, colleague Peric. Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) We can talk about some things, but I know for sure that the President of the Republic of Serbia, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic brought President Sio to Smederevo, president of China and that Hestil brought Alexander Vukic to Serbia. You can talk, you can do whatever you want, but it counts what you do. Another question - who brought "Ling-long" to Zrenjanin? (The Faith of Radeta: The same thing that brought ping-pong and Mercedes to Serbia. I guess that's the same Alexander Wolf. I hear someone's making fun of ping-pong, etc., I guess the factories our employees are in are for a mockery, they're not for me. "Myth" to Obrenovac who brought it rather than Aleksandar Vukic. If I didn't talk about Nis, if I didn't talk about Bor, so if I started counting, it wouldn't be enough for those two minutes, I'd have to talk about all the factories that are the result of Alexander Vukic's efforts. So we also want to work with investors in the east, but we also want to work with investors in the west. What's wrong with that? They say two chairs, they talk about how that's not possible, and they get mandates on a story about two chairs. (The Faith of Radeta: You and he stole the mandates. ) Well, now we can talk about who steals the mandates, who gives up the programs that gave him the mandate or whoever wants to stick to his pre-election program, and we can talk about it. Come on, thief, you're not ashamed to talk about stealing a mandate. (President: Don't, please. ) I thank you for these adjectives, but let's clear something up, which is clear to most citizens of Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic has started changes in Serbia that no one can stop anymore, and they are good for Serbian citizens, they are good for the state of Serbia and we will continue these changes. Whoever wants to live in the past, let him live in the past and do the past. He who looks to the future protects his people first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54021	It's offensive what you just heard. So, we don't mind, I don't know why you're looking at me like that, what I just said... (President: Whatever I do now does not suit you. You know, I don't have any bad intentions. ) It suits me that this session is normally conducted and that it is normal and that it does not object to the SRS that we are against development, against this, against that. Well, there is no one who loves Serbia more than we do. I'm not saying you don't love her as much as we do, but not more than we do, and we don't let anyone talk to us the way they just spoke to a colleague, Arsic. He hurts when I tell him, and I challenge her, yes, he stole the SRS mandate and then he tells Marinika Tepic that she stole someone's mandate. It's the same thing, only in different times, but it's not a subject. The theme is something else. The theme is my report, and you did not allow me to replicate before Mr. Arsic when he spoke about how everyone in the world respected Serbia. Unfortunately, that's not true. I wish he did. Serbia is respected by those where the president of the state is today. We respect. We are respected by China, respected by the Russian Federation, respected by countries that help us to preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty. How can someone say that we are respected by a country whose president calls our president and says – we can talk about the EU if you surrender Kosovo? Guys, what's wrong with you? We're talking about the state. It's respect, why did someone come to someone? No, it's not respect, it's trampling the dignity of the state and it's not done by friends, my dear colleagues. Because we are respected and Arsic boasts here, so here, every time at the conference, the President of the Republic says – we are poor, small, we are trampled, we can't do anything, we expect nothing in Kosovo. Those are his words. Is this a reflection of respect? We're not saying there's no effort, we're not saying there's nothing to do with the white world, etc. We're just saying that Serbia should finally be defined, yes, for one chair. For a chair of Euro-Asian integration, for a chair with Russia, China and other friendly states. It is the only way to preserve Serbia's comprehensive republic. You guys are going to live, nobody believes that story anymore. Look what Merkel tells us, this Frenchman what he says. So, everyone sees it and hears it and the president comes out and says it, and Arsic now says it's not like that. No, guys, let's get this debate serious. We're serious people. This is a serious facility, this is the National Assembly. We can fight as much as we want, and it's part of parliamentaryism and it's okay, and in a way we say an offensive word and so, we have nothing against it, but we can't say anything about the state and claim it's something that isn't. So the state of Serbia, the Serbian people, cannot be a friend of any country that requires that we give up KIM, 13% of its country's territory, does not exist in history, does not exist on the globe that someone has voluntarily given it up. So our friends, friends of Serbia, friends of the Serbian people are the Russian Federation, China and others, not to mention the friendly countries that are ready to help us, and to invite them to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state, which means KIM as an integral part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54022	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Veroljub Arsic, after the amendment You have no right to a replica. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Veroljub Arsic: Right to Replic.]] You can pick up the amendment. (Veloljub Arsic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107.) That's okay. Member of 107th Dignity. (The Belief of Radeta: He can't be that member, he was.) Here, 106. Okay? (Veritre Radeta: Come on.) ) So, the respect of the Republic of Serbia, so someone else says they tell President Aleksandr Vukic that he must recognise Kosovo as a state, and then we will join the EU. Now I'm telling you, no one talks to Alexander Wolfie like that, no one thinks, no one tries, no one can. Some may have been able before Alexander Vukic, before 2012. Some could, but now I can't. Next, we can talk about who our friends are, I don't mind, but in advance, some of us make enemies, I don't think it's very smart. I guess politics is run by its head, not its heart. Here, I'll say, after Serbia I love Russia the most, but I'll make decisions here in the Assembly as an MP when I vote exclusively in Serbia's interest, I guess that's my right. (The Faith of Radeta: Yes, it's only a matter of decision.) It's a matter of decision. To finish, imagine what it would have been like if the former regime had only exercised power in the Republic of Serbia for another year. Here, I'm telling you, they wouldn't exist anymore. It's hard decisions when you have to cut somewhere. Imagine if we were with them in 2014, so we'd drown. Now someone wants to pass on to me for making a decision to take that oligarchy out of power, which is what I'm being transferred, which is what I've been following orders from the former president of the party to remove the yellows from power. I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54025	Article 107(1) has been injured. I really don't know, Mr. Marinkovic, did you hear this Arsic hysteria and how we don't understand the current situation, that we live in some past and he lives in the future? First of all, nothing to be measured for, Mr. Arsic, in all segments, so if you want political knowledge, in the manner and style of life... (Miss Radeta: By the beauty of not passing.) )......................................................................................................... Yeah, you can't say that you're some man of the future, and we're some retrograde, really amazing, if we want to at the general moment. If you want for everything and for any knowledge and general education and for the monitoring of current moments, the monitoring of everything in the country and the world, don't give yourself the meaning of something that you're not, personally. As for the fact that you're not being referred to what the president of your party and the president of the state say, I really need to remind you of that. First of all, it doesn't take so long for you to hitchhike at all today, because Vukic is not in the state, so he's going to hear that Arsic was talking there in the Assembly, so he was talking about national politics, about the successes of Vukic. First, he probably doesn't ask you to, and second, don't deceive the public. The president of the state, the president of your party, Aleksandar Vucic, said, if we want to talk seriously, as serious people, politicians, that he expects nothing good from the upcoming Berlin meeting. On the contrary, he said, and they passed it on on April 16th, heard Mr. Minister, I guess he's a responsible man, not someone who's in euphoria right now and spends time in some prime time on TV, talks all sorts of things. So, he said nicely, he probably met with the government members if he met with them, that it would be a very difficult meeting, meeting with Angel Merkel and with Emanuel McCron, just out of the fact that last year he came up with the idea, and we said that we as the SRS have as a priority the preservation of the KIM and the state strategy and resolving the issue, that there is no way anything that was offered to them in any way to sit at the negotiating table, they refused. Do you really think you're that naive? If it is, then Vukic will explain to you when he sees you, that they're doing it like that, the Ship's terrorists who are now acting like a country because they are so strong and strong. Do you think they wouldn't have ended it in five minutes if someone tipped them off about doing it? The example is done by someone from the State Department or by a European official, specifically telling them – well, listen no more to play with it, stop the fees. No, they won't say that, even on the contrary, Vucic expects him to make offers, he said it himself, I guess he has some sources of information, that 29 in Berlin, to enter into some other form of dialogue with Albanians as he said, and that doesn't mean anything else, I quote him again, but a request for Kosovo's recognition. (President: Thank you. ) No thanks, here I am ending up and by rounding up this story and what Arsic doesn't know. Then you say we make it up, no one ever does. That's why he must have gone to China to discuss this with the world's largest leaders, Si Ji Ping and Vladimir Putin, because he knows that in these countries and those two leaders we have unreserved support everywhere and in every place, he will never give up, he will defend Serbia's sovereignty, our Resolution 1244 that we have to stick to and all, to preserve Kosovo and the Metohija that apparently these want to take from us. If you'd been a little more careful, I'd have finished, it's a really serious topic, Mr. Marinkovic, you'd have heard a few days ago what we told you, that it was necessary to go into government reconstruction. This isn't your own party question, this is a matter of state. In the end, what did we tell you? We've always had a national and national interest above all else, out of that fear, and that, that, too, could have been whispered to you by fellow Martinovic, what you're shaking hands and what our kids would have said, that's where you give him five fingers when you know he's making up stories and accusing us of being some kind of destructive, we just want that, we're dealing with some conspiracy theory. Unfortunately, look back, from the constitution of this call, is everything exactly what we've told you? Yes, it is. We don't like it because it's devastating for Serbia, but let's let the people turn to those who are our friends. This way, I look at Arsic and listen to him a moment ago, he has tied his fate and fate to his descendants, and he has only tied everything to the EU. We do not want to tie Serbia to the EU, but to what our friends are offering us, which is to protect our country, defend our country and act as our international right allows.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54026	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, colleague Arsic. I really have to take a five-minute break, because this thing about T-shirts and presidents of foreign states, we really left.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54029	We laughed a little bit, but we could keep working. I'm really sorry, I didn't mean to give you my word, but, you know, to calm the situation down a little bit. Turns out he's fine. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54030	The situation is calm, we're just discussing, nothing terrible has happened, the people will think what happened, what you're dying for. So, I was just asking to speak to you on the basis of Article 27(2). The Rules of Procedure, and now I'm doing it. We heard it a little while ago, it wasn't offensive what Arsic was talking about, it was more funny to me, he says -- what would have happened if he had shown up in a shirt somewhere with someone's face, because I guess that would've put Vucic's reputation somewhere. Come on, please, Arsic can come without a shirt, no one will notice, let alone a shirt. But it is truly incorrect for the Serbian Radical Party to object, now extremely seriously, to object to anything that would be contrary to some patriotic feelings. You can say whatever you want for us, but if we're not patriots and we honestly don't think well of our country, no one can say that. They didn't mean it when they were in the U.S.S. He threw me a colleague for why we wore Tramp T-shirts, so he became president. Yes, he became president thanks to a good part of the Serbs' votes in those parts of America where many Serbs live, because President Vojislav Seselj invited them to vote in a single broadcast on television shows, Skypes, some clubs, etc. Yeah, that's true. And thank God that's right. We're still hoping, we'll see what's going to happen in that deep state, etc., but no one can say that we don't have a more relaxed relationship with the United States when Trump is in power, but that, God forbid, that caraconjoule Clinton, whom, now you won't laugh, Vukic gave two million dollars to the campaign foundation. Don't make us talk about something you don't want to listen to, which we're not exactly special about talking to you, but if you're gonna wait for us, we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54031	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54032	Let's go back, Mr. Marinkovic, to the pawnage and to this amendment that we have submitted. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing this amendment to the law to delete the existing article 32 and the title above article 32. We don't think that's good. Here's the thing. The title speaks of the burden of proof and the way the trustee who claims that the matter was handed over to him in the state before the entry into the register of stocks and in favour of another trustee is obliged to prove that the transfer to the state took place before the registration of the register of stocks. You're erasing it now and you're saying that the right of the championship has a day, time and hours in the stock register. We believe that you have made a lot of mistakes here and that this will lead to major problems, for the simple reasons that before you enter the stock register, that has just been further explained to me by my colleague Radeta, shows this really right when the right stock is at stake, because it has to be looked at at at the moment when it happened. Because the trustee can also enter the right of supply with a pledge contract, and this contract can occur much sooner or later than this register was ever established. That's why we think it's not good at all. The question arises - and why would you change this? Because if this person has the ability to prove in the burden of proof that he has exercised his right to stock before it is registered, then the question is, why do you want to take it from him, if he can prove it? Are you preparing to do some sort of kidnapping somewhere? You know, I'm not inclined to believe that, but every lawyer, here, I've looked at the various lawyers' opinions on this issue -- this is not a good solution. We believe, but there is now not a minister of justice but Minister Djordjevic, you will see that in practice it will prove that it is not good, especially because of these pledge contracts that must, in itself, have the right to the championship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54033	Thank you very much, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54034	Once again in today's day to repeat, if the Constitution doesn't count, the law is the highest legal act in the system of a state. His proposal should be approached very carefully, cautiously, studioically and try to look at things that won't have to change, he won't have to, I'm undermining again, at least for a relatively short period of time, not like this two, three times a year. It's not the case with this law, but many laws are. Because to seriously access the proposals of these laws, we would not have had a situation for free MPs in this assembly to call upon the number of people endangering the parliamentary party that is second in power, it is the SRS after the SNS, and the first as an opposition party. We today have a group of free Members of Parliament who have only one mandate less than the SRS. That points to the way we approach and pass these laws. Now let me say a little bit about this hostage right over moving things. It's still known as the so-called. a manual stock, unlike a mortgage that appears in immovableity. It's not something that's actually very important. It happens, of course, and it is invested there to provide some claim and it is strictly formal legal work, because its existence requires a written contract. It can't be different, it can't be oral or agreed. You said what is the essence and the basis of the passing. There is something between you and the former regime, as you say, in common, there are more things, of course, when someone in power has to and some continuity to implement, is that way to the EU. Both they and you, and former Tomislav Nikolic, that he did not leave today, did he also go to this delegation? Is it? Well, you wouldn't even know if he hadn't, see, something showed up here today. I don't know if it's justified or unwarranted, it doesn't matter now. He said that, he said it back then, Alexander Vucic, then as an opposition politician, that the same thing, the way to the EU and the SNS, I don't know if Arsic was in that party at that time, I don't think he's, I'm not sure he'll do the same, just at a higher speed. Here, Arsic's back. I liked what you said, colleague Arsic, you took off your dominoes. They helped you build the party, as well as counterpart Martinovic, was when the chairman of that Management Board was Nenad Konstantinovic, in which direction it all went. Since we are politicians, and we are not actors, colleague Arsic, if you find out and manage to get these from the EU on thin ice, let us know, we'll break that ice to get in, there you'll have our full support, otherwise we can't, we can't fool ourselves to that extent and play friends with someone who doesn't want to accept us as a friend. There's only a mere interest, and companies that come. There's a mere interest in them, we don't argue with them. That's how we have to have a relationship with our companies, to our country, but to run after them, to convince ourselves that they're our preferred friends, we can't and we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54035	Thank you, colleague Perich. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54036	On the subject of these, I'd say, a grudge over the trip to the EU. Listen to the sentence – We want to be an equal partner in the EU with Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. An equal partner in the EU. Now, the prize question - whose sentence is that? When was that sentence spoken or written? If anyone forgets, it is the 2008 sentence of Vojislav Seselj, from his letter sent just at the time of the separation of the former party. At the Central Country Administration session, if I am not mistaken, at which some wanted to politically judge Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandra Vukic and others, the sentence read and read in the letter. That sentence was applauded by those who today seem to want to resent Serbia for being on their way to the EU. To be a little more honest with each other and to remember a little bit better what it was and what it was like. The issue of the EU or European standards is important because of another detail from this session. It is mentioned at one point that the official statistics conducted by the Republic of Serbia are not correct, i.e. it is disputed with the note – and we will one day say what the real results are and what the real numbers are and when it comes to the total number of employees in Serbia and when it comes to unemployment, as it once was, as it stands out today. Those who say this should know that the opening of the negotiating chapter with the EU relating to the statistics of Serbia's states has confirmed that our statistics are at the same level of standards as official national statistics today. Well, as long as someone thinks they're lying to some German or some French or any state that belongs to darkness, that's just as far away as Serbia is. You'll agree, it's about serious countries, it's about serious things, and it's about irrefutable proof that whoever wants to challenge it, I'm afraid, wasn't obviously interested in the subject enough, or maybe he forgot some of the things that concern him and his personal views. It wasn't so long ago in 2008, and even recently there was a confirmation that we heard from the mouth of Vojislav Seselj himself in this assembly here. Yeah, that's when I said it, and that's when I said it. I think it's something now, at least for us present at this debate, for a nuance more clearly. Correct me freely, if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54037	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want to do business? Here you go. She's a Radeta lady in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54038	According to the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 27. I repeat again, we can talk here whatever anyone wants, but I don't know why MPs of the ruling coalition, some MPs, want to discuss at any cost today something that I'm not sure suits them. We don't mind, we can talk about 2008 and the period when the advances were made by Boris Tadic and Miki Rakic, and the time when the advances stole the mandates of the SRS, all of us can talk about it, but we don't see what the point is to talk about it today. If you want that debate, with all the details, and about what anyone said at that central country administration that was mentioned here, and about this Tomislav Nikolic at that central country administration saying - what you're attacking me for taking some money, I don't need money, I provided my great-grandsons with money. Here's Martinovic. He was there. Here's Arsic, he was present. Do you want to go back to that? We have nothing to be ashamed of from that time. We didn't. We're consistent in our politics, maybe we're not good to you, maybe we're not good to the people, but we're proud of consistency in our policies. We are proud of the fact that we follow the ideology of Serbian nationalism and we will never change it. We will all push for Serbia to never join the EU. And we will all push for Serbia to enter Euro-Asian integration, to make Russia our force as our protector, to make contact as close as possible, comprehensive with Russia, China and other friendly countries. It is the only way for Serbia to survive in the economic, political, cultural, social, whatever you want to make sense. It's an SRS position, unchanged and unchangeable. I'm sorry some of them changed that, and I think Vladimir Orlic meant what I'm saying on August 9, 2008. On that day, he joined the SRS, but it was short for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54039	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Dr. Vladimir Orlic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54040	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. In relation to the right to replication, you could point out that we only started talking on this subject because only those who were clearly obsessed with this topic started it, and it wasn't us. It is known who came here with the comments – and what he said, and what he said then, about the EU. We reacted to it with a desire to clarify things, to remind them of what their leader said, to remind themselves of which sentences they applauded themselves. To remind themselves of what they claimed to represent once. Do you want to explain it to me? Your brains make it clear to me? Do they have a problem with that right now? I don't know, but if they want to deal with this subject, I repeat what I repeat every time, but every time these topics touch, that topic doesn't pay off, because they always face this reminder. As far as I'm concerned, in August 2008, just like September, October, November, December of that year, or any other month of the following years, I was politically in my place today and precisely because I followed that policy that I respected and that August, I'm here where I am. Did someone applaud in August and forget it in September? That's what someone has to think. As for that story about who formed who. Once again, the SNS has never funded Dragan Gilas, has not made us voluntarily integrated into his system or with those boards of directors or supervisors, has not forced us to deal politically with those with whom we were once in the same party. What's the evidence? That we were the clearest and most dangerous for them the opposition, the regime of Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas and all others. Well, the fact that no one else beats them but Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic and SNS. They are now deep in the dark history of this country because in the 2012 elections we beat them, and we continued to beat them convincingly from that year on every time. So if Serbia should tell someone that it has managed to produce a result for these people, fortunately Serbia, to ask no more questions in this country, it is us. And the rest, let them think carefully about the topics they are interested in, about which they want to talk and remind themselves of the letters from 2008, are easy to find, and there are also those of us who still remember very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54041	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I'll give you, no problem, I just want to appeal to you that we don't just abuse the Rules of Procedure because you started with the replicas, and really with the topics that we really got away from. I'll remind you, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Hostage Law on mobile items entered in the register. So, I think we're a lot, a lot away from the subject. It's not a problem for me, I can listen and that this debate lasts as long as you want, but if I can only ask you if it's possible to go back to the topic and what counterpart Sreto Peric was talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54042	Article 27(1) I don't know what that need is for when we get back in line again, you're playing hardball. Let someone before me talk whatever they want, don't touch the Rules of Procedure, I don't even know if the member said it doesn't matter if it doesn't, and then all of a sudden you're begging for something to calm down. Nothing's restless, I just don't understand how someone so masochistic needs to make us talk about funding the SNS right now. Yeah, well, we're talking about the Hotel Ric right now, so let's talk about Stank Subotic, is that what we're talking about is money from Mickey Rakic, who came from the American and English embassies. My people, would you like to open that topic for me now? I don't think it would be good, and it wouldn't be in your best interest. You know, we're absolutely telling the truth. We're the ones who want and who, an hour and a half ago, turned your attention that you shouldn't have taken a break at all, that we should have finished this work today. You wanted the champagne wonderful to give the impression that we've been working all day. We've been doing all day, nothing that's been said here, everyone's said what they think, everyone's said the attitude, as far as we're concerned, we've expressed the position of the SRS, and whether these are their own personal or party, I don't know, because they advocate that the mandate belongs to the MPs. We think that the mandate belongs to political parties and we are here as MPs of the SRS. So, if they want us to engage, that what I've listed here, to go both by numbers and by dates and by photos, etc., they can, if they want us to stop to go back to the amendments, we're both for one and another kind of debate absolutely there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54043	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Dr. Vladimir Orlic's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54044	That note that went past the sound, while I was talking a little bit, which is being beaten by Article 106, was a question we've heard now, do we want to discuss the amendments, feel free to transfer Mr. Chairman, we don't mind. It's our clear wish, it was even a well-intentioned recommendation on my part. Anything I say, I say absolutely well-intentioned. That we don't deal with topics that don't pay off to others. We, first of all, guard against the power of our own arguments, because we don't have to worry that it's a great shame if someone remembers from time to time what he applauded, but because we've gathered here for some other reason. So instead of offering to deal with the "Tabloid" magazine, you know what I think about it and how much it's, not unseriously, but rather funny, the proposal would be, here's Article 106 again, to get us back to the discussion in particular. You're absolutely right about that. If it was just past the sound, and regarding article 106, there was a quote -- we want to be a member, a partner in the EU with KIM in Serbia. Please, Mr. Chairman, there's no need for you to intervene. It's just a reminder of what he applauded and there's nothing controversial about it. Feel free to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54045	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic, followed by the MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54046	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this famous story about the EU, whether or not we want to, etc. The SNS stance is for Serbia to meet EU-set standards. Can anyone not advocate the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia? Come on, I'd like someone to tell me here, it's an EU liquid. Would anyone like to not advocate human rights? And it's the EU's liquid. Would anyone like to advocate the rights of national minorities? So, we would like to meet in many areas those conditions that the EU sets for someone to become a full member. If they don't want us, it's another story. It is our job to achieve these conditions, not because of them, but because of us, because of our citizens, to have protection from courts, to be equal. As for the strategic partnership with China, if anyone wants to achieve it, I'll inform him that he's late. He's late, we're done with that part of the job, you're too late. There, President Aleksandar Vukic in China is with Si, the same president of the People's Republic of China, Si said that Serbia and China are bound by a steel friendship. You can't do more than that. What else will they accomplish? Come on, let him tell me. As for the Russian Federation, I would say that President Putin has stayed in Serbia three times, as far as I know as the president and four times as prime minister. Not to mention what kind of cooperation we have with the Russian Federation in the area, in the UN, and what the Russian Federation has blocked at our demands and requests in the UN. Not to talk about co-operation with the Russian Federation, the security issue of arms procurement, equipment, the training of our officers, the fact that we're an observer at the ODKB. That's all done. Energy security with the Russian Federation, again achieved. They've started, and now we've just passed a law of accession for the Euro-Asian banks. We started agreements with the Euro-Asian Union in the area of trade. I don't know what's left. Someone's behind in that story that they can do something new, there's nothing left, it's just to get it done and perfect, but it's already over. (The Faith of Radeta: You are lagging behind in development, obviously.) It exists. Some political programs have to adapt to the current state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54047	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54048	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 32. I have to really, I won't even use two minutes to say something. What do we have to do to show that as a state, we want honest co-operation with the Russian Federation, Arsic asked me to answer it. We should acknowledge Crimea as an integral part of Russia, we should give diplomatic status to members of the humanitarian centre in Nis, we should say – you are our force of protector, we want you to participate in KIM negotiations, very specifically. We want to maximise the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation. We need to get out of the SAA to stay on this deal. So, very specifically, we have nothing against what has been positively achieved in co-operation with China, Russia and other friendly countries. We publicly support it, and we never said anything negative, even here when every time agreements relating to co-operation with those friendly states, we and if we always vote against, in those cases we vote yes. We don't have a Serbian radical problem with saying that we support anyone who shows open friendly relations and close state relations with Russia and China. It's our strategic definition. Question, what can be done more than this? You got it. A trip to the EU can be cut off and set off for the Euro-Asian Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54049	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Veroljub Arsic, the Hurt of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54050	A member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly, because here are some facts that really violate. First, we need to be aware of the fact that Ukraine has not recognised Kosovo's independence. She has not recognised Kosovo's independence. (The Faith of Radeta: Go tell Russia as well.) ) The Republic of Serbia supports Ukraine's territorial integrity. Come on, say it, hero. You're having a bad time with Martinovic. What's most tragic is that none of us in the Russian Federation are asking us to recognize Kryn as part of the Russian Federation. Nobody. They're not setting any conditions. I'm looking for you. Make me happy. ) As I see it, someone prefers another state to recognise Kosovo's independence. It seems to be more expensive to some. You can't make decisions not to expect consequences. Is the Republic of Serbia, as far as I know, the only European country that has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation? It's not. And now the question arises – do we want to ruin everything we have achieved because of reckless moves? Everything. Absolutely everything. It means that Ukraine recognises Kosovo's independence, we have a problem with people. It's really a serious problem for us. One more sentence. What's most important at this point with our southern province is to preserve the Serbs who are there, to preserve those people who are guarding the same kiM and we must not take any reckless action to endanger their safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54051	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Now the right to replica has Sreto Peric. (Nataša Sp Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Natasa Sp Jovanovic tells them. Here you go, no need to worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54052	Mr. Marinkovic, perhaps I wasn't enough, as you would say, transparent. Here, Rules of Procedure. I thought it was enough to press the key and ask me on what basis. Based on insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. Somehow I think you're doing it accidentally. Maybe you're not even focused, you might think it's the right thing to do or why I know why you're doing it to allow these kind of circulations like you just had a previous speaker, of course, with nothing in place, and he's back in the field that he doesn't understand. I mean, Arsic with the foreign policy has absolutely nothing to do with it, and I don't think he even, although the Vice President of the National Assembly, I don't know if he's qualified by the President of the Assembly in the sense that he's replacing it, that he's talking about such issues at certain assemblies and forums, he might appear somewhere, but as a participant and some international delegations, I haven't heard that he's had any observed exposure and that any of the representatives of other parliamentarians from the world have listened to him noticeably and realized what he wanted to say. I really don't want to belittle him, but something that's not a field and you don't understand, a man doesn't need to talk. What's this about? It's about retreating and seeing how he does it out of ignorance, but you know when someone's working out of ignorance, it can also be very dangerous for some parallels. First, in the way he said, to compare really huge love, support, financial, whatever you want, the eternal brotherhood, spiritual ties, the Orthodox ties between Serbia and Russia, and to identify it with Ukraine that is a complete NATO protectorate. About how serious that state is saying that one, here as Kostunica, was at least some, let's say, intellectual from some political mile, on an exhaust road, these followers threw out this comedian who is now elected president of the state. Please don't, all anti-Russian hysteria. I tell you, really without being offended, I'm a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, so you voted and we had that right to get that representative seat there, at every rally, believe me, it's precisely about Ukraine and that Crime is an inseparable part of Russia. So Crime is Russia, you have to understand. No historical, no future circumstances, I don't know what, neither NATO nor the whole West, no one will ever be able to deny it. So, everywhere in these gatherings, all of the anti-Russian hysteria in Ukraine is being done and then the question is being asked and I am being respected by this entourager, Shormaz and this yellow one, this one, Maja Vidinović. So she also attacked me when we went to these gatherings and when we spoke to the NATO people in person -- oh, you're embarrassing the state and the people. There, that same representative of yours works. Don't play with those things. It's about who's going to withdraw and whether or not they're going to confess, you know, it's not at all about when the relationship to Russia is on the other side. The attitude towards Russia, for our Serbian Radicals, and conducting a survey among Serbian citizens among patriotic conscious citizens is something unhindered. If you're putting on the scale of how you're going to treat brother Russia, what on the other hand, possibly, you can lose to those who are the NATO Pact protectorate, who wants all the worst Serbia, so you know, I guess it's logical what you're going to define yourself for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54053	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All right. Now, in order for Radeta's colleague not to pass it on to me, now, please, and my colleague Arsic, we really went into an argument, and we began to insult some countries that are friendly to us, and... Veroljub Arsic: I will not insult anyone. ) Okay. Thank you very much, colleague Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54054	I have the right in the National Assembly to express my opinion and no one can prevent me and no one gives me any authority. What happened at international forums, I'm not the kind of man who's going to convince it. If I had the authority, I wouldn't talk about it. Did we make any private contacts there that later affected some decisions and relations between the two countries, and I'm not going to talk about it either. But I also won't speak against the Ukrainian people. So much more so that the president of the Russian Federation, Mr. Putin, calls the Ukrainian people brothers and that's their thing and would not allow myself to insult these people that they are a NATO counterctorate, and their neighbour and no representative of another closer people to call them brothers. I have such a luxury to allow myself, as some in this congregation, I will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54055	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Finally, the word has a colleague, Sreto Peric. My colleague, I'm really sorry. You have the right to the replica you acquired 45 minutes ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54056	Thank you. It's going to be a little awkward now, because this is going to be some mix, more debates after a close expert debate on the amendment I filed on this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54057	Just don't talk about Russia and Ukraine, both our peoples are brotherly, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54058	Don't worry, you're a man with great freedoms and you'll let an apostle bring out what he thinks he should say. Says one colleague - you're too late, the president of the state is already in China. Is this the end of the world and the century? I'm a little worried about that, if that's the case, and I remember them being taddices, jilasovians, your friends asking you, did you do anything? And they did. Then when the people showed us trust, you got a chance to do something. So one day, the SRS will gain the trust of the Serbian citizens and show what they can and can't do, so the citizens will reassess it. And when it comes to the result of the match Serbia – the EU, here are the dear gentlemen to let you know which one will be the result. It will be zero, then we will be in a situation that is uncertain. We won't know if it's zero - because we did our best to make it so or if we Serbian radicals with one part of Serbia's citizens or because the EU didn't want Serbia in its ranks. The result will be zero, zero, they won't, we won't. But our friends who do not allow, or have allowed 100% taxes to be imposed on products from Serbia that are due to go to Kosovo and Metohija, above all, to citizens of Serbian nationality, what kind of friends are they? What kind of friends are these, what kind of EU doesn't want to say that a community of Serb municipalities is forming in northern Kosovo and Metohija? Until when are those who aren't really friends to call it that? Professor Vojislav Seselj, what he said, tried to behave stately, to protect the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, he knew that there was nothing of it, and he had this result of zero – zero predicted long before you and I.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54059	Thank you, colleague Peric. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Rade, submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54060	Yes, you suggested that Article 19 be deleted and the basic reason why we asked for it is because this article provides that the publisher may require the court to decide to sell the subject matter of the law governing the enforcement and security procedure. We Serbian radicals have launched a serious campaign against public executioners. We will do everything and advocate to put aside the Law on Public Executors. A colleague, Sreto Peric, represents this on behalf of our parliamentary group at the beginning of each new session. It's been going on since October. Yesterday we issued a special edition of our newspaper "The Great Serbia" on page 16 which is why we have to break up with public executioners, which is why we need to abolish actually public perpetrators as such, which is why we need to return the executive procedure to the jurisdiction of the courts. And wherever it appears to us in your proposals to execute, that is, the perpetrators, we act in accordance with our position, in line with the campaign we run throughout Serbia. In all of Serbia, we run a campaign, we inform the public through the special edition of "Great Serbia" what the perpetrators do, and the people also know without us, what the mafia has become, what are the links between the perpetrators, the banks, the fictitious buyers of apartments, what everything, how many people are damaged, how many apartments are sold. There's a serious mob organization that we're going to try to break, expose the despots anyway, but we're going to try to break them. Certainly we will not leave alone, we will not stop insisting that such a law be passed and that indeed more, at least one at a time to reduce these bloodsuckers from the skin of the people, the citizens of Serbia, and now they are certainly the most powerful public perpetrators. There, that was motive and reason why we deleted Article 19. A bill of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54061	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54062	Here, in this way we wanted to show that they were changing and supplementing this law, there was absolutely no need, there was no point. counterpart Verica Radeta has already explained what is more painful for Serbian citizens. Mr. Djordjevic, since the initiative was launched in the government, it was said, and that is what she did, if I am not mistaken, Jelena Deretic. She is an assistant or secretary of state at the Ministry of Justice and she has announced for us Serbian Radicals and for Serbian citizens who suffer from this disease of private perpetrators that by the end of last 2018 changes will be launched, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law on Implementation and Security in the Republic of Serbia will be adopted. This means that you have the full right and the obligation to transfer to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to launch this initiative. A growing number of Serbian citizens who are neither guilty nor debtors pay private or so-called. ‘public perpetrators’. There are not a small number of cases for public executioners but, of course, with close related persons to establish debt-purchasing agencies, and then later buy those debts and later execute them, as well as their related persons, whether relatives, friends, godfathers or the like, appear at auctions to buy property that have been reported more and more frequently in Serbia lately in 2017. For 2018, not all data have been completed. There were close to three and a half thousand apartments, houses or other residential facilities very often, not below the market price for a little, but several times compared to the market price. And to make the problem bigger, claims by executive creditors amounting to 5,000 euros were sold to residential or other buildings worth nearly 100,000 euros. The obligations of private contractors, which were, of course, linked to, very often, banks, business and commercial banks, were often several times greater than the basic debt itself, even interest was included. There is another problem, so about 308 perpetrators are scheduled in Serbia, and now they are filled in 2017. We in the SRS think there's a lot and one that does a job like this, but if a question is asked why it's not filled up to the end, the thing is simple. More are those who have already entered the business to pay than those who should be appointed. It's a little bit like when they're a fellow customs officer, this is, of course, funny, wanted his colleagues to honor, so they asked him what he would like for a gift, and he said, of course, one shift. That's the situation with private contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54063	Thank you, colleague Peric. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54064	Here we are, Mr. Marinkovic, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, at the end of this debate about enlisting in the register of publishing rights. We are now facing a fact that is truly devastating because 94% of Serbia's stock is loans, and in this pawn right of moving things, besides these immovableities and mortgages, you can believe, even cattle funds, or cattle throats. Now, it comes to the situation that people, especially farmers who are very hard to live, they don't have some income average, they can't make credits with banks and now they're stocking their throats - cows, sheep, everything they have. They have to be bound by the rules to keep all of this in good health and the way they put in the stock at the moment. You know, it can really be a big and insurmountable problem for them because of the fact that they can't affect it themselves. What will happen, and how will it be declared destroyed? This article that I'm talking about now is that, when there's a pledge, if there's evidence of it completely destroyed, wipes out of the stock register, but the rest is undefined who's going to judge whether or not that thing is completely destroyed. Secondly, what I want to say at the end of this to the citizens of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, it can be for people who are not familiar with it to be very dangerous, because you have people coming, usually on Saturdays in Belgrade, some other day in Jagodina, Novi Sad, in Serbia, so on Saturdays. the day of the car market. After all, it can be on these car cryers, there's everything. A man collects a church girl, buys a car, it's really not rare, it really happens in many cases, and that car is the subject of hostage law. In order for this to happen, although we are not in direct transmission because of a game right now, it will be delayed transmission, my recommendation is to every citizen of Serbia who intends to buy a second-hand car that is on the Agency's website for Business Registers, I think it's in the right upper corner, there is this square "delegated right", clicking to go to the registry of things that are listed by the registration number, to look at the registration number of that car so people don't get into a situation. After all, believe me, this morning I talked about when there was another law on the agenda, sometimes people themselves don't know that one of these unscrupulous perpetrators, which Mr. Peric is talking about, put in stock that car and he can't register the car, you know, and let alone alienate it if he needs it, to sell it. Maybe for some other family reason, he wants to sell that car, and he doesn't know that the perpetrator took it as collateral, because it didn't come to him for some reason, a solution, a notice about it, or maybe someone wasn't home, so he needs to go pick it up in the mail. What if the mailman tried to do it on Friday, get the executioner's solution to his hand, and he sold the registered car to someone else on Saturday, took the money? It can really happen. It's really very important that all of this is included in the law, and it's precise, so that people know. This, it is said, is deleted from the register of hostage rights if it is found to be this thing, it is now this change, completely destroyed, and evidence of what kind of total destruction it is, is not at all precise how such evidence is obtained.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54065	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54066	Article 32 is the last and talks about the provisions of this law, Art. 3rd and 25th, will apply from 1 January 2021. To tell you the truth, we don't understand the need for the law to be passed now by emergency procedure. It is said here - the emergency procedure is for the reason that the adoption of an emergency law could cause adverse consequences for the work of the Agency for Economic Registers, and this Article 32, which speaks of art. 3 and 25, in fact, are members who regulate registers, it will not enter into force until 1 January 2021, and this is general papaziania. We could understand and even accept that such a member is an integral part of the law that is passed the first time in general, but if it goes to amendments to the law, then writing something like this is a bad solution for us and it's not a legal one, first of all, a good one, and that's why we suggested that this Article 32 be deleted, and when we speak, the ministers will come with the proposals of the complete laws, so we hope that you will meet what you promised to have from some next session a democratic debate, starting with the agenda, that we will not have 15, 17 or more points on the agenda at one point, and that we can really discuss every item on the agenda. We here have Minister Zoran Djordjevic, who has been here for the third day with the MPs, a man very much in the mood to communicate with MPs, to exchange views, to answer our questions, but, you know, when you put here within a point of 17 points of the agenda, how can one man do that? He can't, of course. And we fully understand that. Don't do this anymore, not for the sake of the public, not for the ministers that we, no matter what they are, are the Government, we, the National Assembly, should, as good hosts, respect the ministers who deserve it. Of course, not everything. Some of those who don't deserve it, it's a good thing they weren't here today, better for them. But I hear that Vukic and Zoran and Rasim brought her to China, he shouldn't have left them in Serbia, not to mess with these walkers in his absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-24-0.u54067	Thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I am taking the opportunity to thank Minister Djordjevic, as Radeta said, a man of three full days sits with us and works with us communities, MPs of the opposition on dedicated work, colleagues from the majority. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, 25 April 2019, starting at 10.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you.
