ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57447	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 83 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 267. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57448	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milan Krkobic, as well as for Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic. My parliamentary question will be about the restoration and reviving of Serbia's village as an important element throughout that rebirth of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Krkobic, you are one of the few people who is essentially in favour of rebuilding and reviving Serbia's village and people know it. Your initiatives, actions and projects that you have implemented in the previous period point to your commitment to a better life in the country. For a reminder, as director of "Post-Serbia" you launched and implemented the project "52. Sunday of the year, the 52nd Post Office in Serbia's villages," thus allowing village residents to receive an adequate postal service. As Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you launched and implemented the project "The State of Serbia in the Villages of Serbia". With this project, in collaboration with local self-government, you have brought in dozens of villages of doctors, postal officials and civil servants. In this way you have allowed some important business to be done in the place of the lives of these inhabitants of our village. The "500 cooperatives, 500 villages" project launched two years ago to bring Serbia's villages back to life by returning young people to the countryside through various incentives and subsidies to carry out agriculture, that there are young people willing to enter agriculture and thus help themselves and develop villages and agriculture in Serbia, confirms a great interest in association and subsidies that allowed this project to begin with. It is necessary to create conditions for decent living in the country, provide adequate infrastructure, roads, waterways, sewerage, health, cultural, social and other conditions for young people. Mr. Minister, about a month ago, a national team was formed for the rebirth of Serbia's village. On this occasion, you said – Serbian villages are not a by-product of nostalgia, it is an imperative of time, population, security, economic and other. We look forward to having the full support of the country's most important authorities led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, SANU and the heads of religious communities. This team brings together numerous experts, authorities from agriculture, infrastructure, health care, education, culture, sports and other social areas of life, as well as representatives designated by the Academy Committee for the SANU Village. The task of the National Team is to establish professional and scientific proposals as the basis for creating and defining a policy of equal regional development that will contribute to the creation of favourable conditions for life in the country. Mr. Minister, changes to the Law on Agricultural Land are under way, and it needs to undergo fundamental changes and provide better conditions for young people to survive in the country, but also to return to the country. That's why your proposals on free land reduction from 20 to 50 hectares to young couples, subsidising jobs in the land and reducing VAT, are a relief from some giving of exceptional importance to young people. These days, young people appear in the MP's office in Nis looking for answers when your proposals will be incorporated into legal frameworks. Those are questions for you too, Mr. Minister. Since the village is not only agriculture and that people living in the country should be provided with all the conditions that those living in the city need proper health care, schools, cultural institutions, conditions to deal with sport, that young women have conditions to want to live in villages, have offspring and will continue to live on their land. I ask the Prime Minister – is the Ministry and Government in general committed to one of these attitudes that better conditions are being created in all segments of life for life in the country? What exactly will the Ministry do to create better conditions for living in the country? The village's picture is dreary, out of 4,700 settlements in Serbia, 1,200 are disappearing. In 1,000 villages there are less than 100 inhabitants, in more than 200 villages there are no persons under 20 years of age. The villages today have about 260,000 boys between 40 and 50 and about 100,000 girls of the same age who did not start their families. Mr. Minister, I ask you to persist in all these efforts to improve the country's conditions and stay young in the country and thus save the Serb village, and thus also the state of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57449	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57450	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would, since here is the fifth, sixth year as I set and seek certain things, specifically to solve the problems of our people living in the country and from the village, as my colleague said earlier, that the problems in our villages, and especially our small municipalities in southeastern Serbia, are quite large, me directly and specifically asking the very problems affecting a particular sphere of our agricultural producers, or people living in southeastern Serbia. Since my question is now specifically related, it means that it is the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Transport, as it is, at the end of 2018, we have passed the Transport Safety Act, where under these laws rules, which is responsible for the Agency for Transport Security and the MUP have been delivered, and these rules have come into force now, in June of the month. It concerns in particular our agricultural producers who have means of transport to transport their goods from field to house, from house to market, which are means of transport, they are means of transport up to 7.5 tonnes. Otherwise, by December 2018, it was possible that agricultural producers, who have such a means of transport, were those trucks, for those people who don't know, those trucks are darkeners, which are older dates of production, but these trucks were quite present in our people in southeastern Serbia, whether it's Leskovac, whether it's Vranje, whether Nisavski district, whether Zaječar County, these trucks are quite present and those trucks are our agricultural producers driving their goods from field to house, from house later driving to market. Now, by passing this law, technical examinations require all of our agricultural producers to install tachographs with such vehicles. Such vehicles, these darkeners or these trucks up to 7.5 tonnes of load capacity, are the moss of old vehicles, their market value is up to 100,000, 120,000 dinars. The installation of tachographs costs up to 50,000 dinars and after that, if there is a need for tachographs, then it will be a much bigger problem for these people. My question, since it's given the possibility that these people who own such trucks, who are old, but technically correct, which can be checked at any moment, in every part, because they have everything they need for a technical examination, but they don't have room for those tachographs and they can't be fitted with tachographs. But the technical examinations don't want such trucks to register, and that's why our agricultural producers come, who are their goods in the fields, is it Leskovac, as I just said, is it Meroshina, Blace, whether it's potatoes, whether it's pepper, whether it's onions or something else, these people now can't transport it because, as I say, the technical checks don't want to register them, because they're asking those owners of such trucks, these dark ones, or some of the others who are in that class, ask them for certain confirmations that the competent ministry, whether it's traffic, whether it's a MUP. Right now, they confirm themselves to them, these agricultural producers who have these machines, or those trucks, they don't give it away, and because of that, here from June of the month, July of the month, these people can't register their trucks, these trucks tomorrow can't function these people, and believe me, for all of us living in the country, we live from the village, we know the problems, it's very important for them that they can get their goods from field to house, or from house to market to transport it. It's a wave truck that's going 5, 10, 15 km now. Otherwise, the problem is that when the driver's working time rule is passed, based on the Traffic Safety Act, certain things are defined in that rule, and we're witnessing that our farmers working in the field, bringing their goods to the market, they need a small captain to get there, to drive, to transport, and normally to sell these goods tomorrow. There are solutions, technical examinations should be able to obtain some confirmation from the competent ministry or from the Traffic Safety Agency, which will say exactly that agricultural one, so far has been a statement by agricultural producers to the competent MIP. Based on that statement, they could register trucks up to 7.5 tonnes. That's what they're called. Tamcici, since my people and people in southeastern Serbia know what I'm talking about, and then by December, that is, by June 2019, these trucks could have been registered. Now it takes some kind of confirmation that people are going to prove that this truck is being used for their own purposes, for agricultural production purposes, and that they can register their trucks, and their dungeons, that they can do their own agricultural work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57451	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57452	Thank the chairman: We will ask two questions concerning public finances and burdening the budget on the burden of all Serbian citizens. The first question is referred to the Minister of Energy. We are interested in what are the business reasons for the Serbian government to write off the total debt that the Public Enterprise "Serbia" has towards the state totaling 1.2 billion euros? So it's a debt of "Serbigas" to the state, it's an enterprise that's 100 per cent owned by Serbia, and it's been piling up for years. About 80% of the debt, so some 934m euros were created by the activation of the banking guarantees the Serbian state gave, and this assembly approved long-term loans that were taken by the commercial banks by "Srbigas". We have always been assured by the Minister of Energy in this Assembly that when the Assembly adopts and approves guarantees that they will pay the debts of "Serbiagas" instead of "Srbigas", that they will not actually be activated. However, we see that we have nearly a billion euros of activated debt guarantees that "Srbigas" was unable to pay, so the state paid for it. "Srbigas" thus became a debt to the state and a total of 1.2 billion euros, the state simply decided to write off its claims from "Serbiagas" and to convert them into the capital of the Serbian state to "Serbia". To be very simple and explain to the citizens what it is. It's like when in the movie "The Marathons run an honorary circle", Billy Pitton says – if you don't have the money to pay the debt, my 40,000 to enter the construction of the crematorium. That's actually it. So, since "Srbigas" will not pay 1.2 billion euros in debt to the state, the state has converted its claim into property in a company that already has 100% ownership, so we are interested in what business reasons are that on behalf of the citizens this claim is made by the state of Serbia, so all citizens to "Srbigas", the government wrote off? Serbia's director, recently appointed head of the Vojvodina Football Club, announced an investment in the football stadium. So I don't know why the director of "Serbigas" would announce investments in sports facilities if he runs a company that is not able to pay off a 1.2 billion-euro debt to the state and is unable to serve his short and long-term commitments to banks and finance. The next question is referred to the Commission for State Aid Control, with regard to the complaint that the Slovenian company "Adrija Airways" has sent to this commission, regarding aid granted by the state of Serbia to the company "Er Serbia". The Slovenian company addressed it under the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on the grounds that there is a breach of competition in the European aviation market, because the state of Serbia as signatories of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the candidate country contributes to unfair competition by financially helping "Er Serbia". "Er Serbia" shows a positive financial result, but thanks exclusively to subsidies from the Republic of Serbia, which it books as an extraordinary income. If those subsidies were excluded, "Er Serbia" would show losses that are greater than the losses shown in time by the company's predecessor, "Er Serbia", which is the former JAT. The state of Serbia has 50% ownership in this company, but has introduced direct subsidies, debt write-offs, debt service and various other indirect benefits, between 500m and 700m euros in direct money, while a minority partner who has 49% of the ownership has entered only 100m euros in loans. Of course, supporters of sovereignty, Euro skeptics and economic sovereignty supporters will ask the question - what does the Slovenian company care what the state of Serbia helps the Serbian company? But this is not about the Serbian market, but it is about the unfair competition that Air Serbia appears to be in the European aviation market, and since we are a candidate country for EU membership, it seems that the Serbian company has no right to help the state of Serbia, the candidate countries, that it is financially helpful and thus makes our company unfairly competitive. The question is also for all citizens, what is a total benefit for all citizens of public money, taxpayers' money, to assist the business of a national air carrier in a situation where a very small number of citizens can afford to use air transport and use services "Er Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57453	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57454	Thank you, Chairman. I ask the question of the Ministry of Environmental Protection: is there any possibility of helping in the technical or financial sense of the House of Health Nis, with regard to the expansion of the capacity of the station in which the treatment of infectious medical waste is being done, which has existed for years, above all and as a problem, in the region itself? When I say region, I mean Nisavsky County. The station was built in time for a capacity of 260,000 people, currently serving 600,000, considering and mentioning the region, in which a large number of municipalities gravity towards the town of Nis. Namely, the House of Health Nis has its plan of management of medical waste, which has been given the consent of the Ministry of Health and is currently a second, or updated version of the plan in the process of re-issued consent or extension of importance. By the way, Nis Health Home is treating infectious medical waste in a facility in Trupal, near Nis. It is a sterilization of waste in the autoclave, which translates it into an unhazarded state and teaches to the municipal enterprise for depositation. Other types of medical waste are handed over to authorised operators for further processing, such as transport and storage, until further proceedings such as isos, due to thermal treatment abroad, as we know, Serbia still does not have a waste burner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57455	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57456	I ask a question on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club to the Serbian government. Namely, what will and when will the Serbian government do to compensate for the damage caused by the elemental disasters in agriculture? We are witnessing that in recent years as a rule, the damages affecting agriculture and the suffering of farmers, or peasants, have occurred in some unwritten way. It can be said freely that in recent years Serbia has faced two major disasters in agriculture. The first is the weather conditions and opportunities that are outside the influence of all of us, and therefore the authorities, and the second elemental disaster is the incompetent government, or the ministry, to prevent the damage caused by the elemental disasters. To be perfectly clear, it's about the next one. For seven years now, in continuity, this government has led Serbia. For seven years, we have been constantly listening to how all necessary measures will be taken to clean up the water canal network, how defences will be improved against natural disasters, how peasants will meet by least experiencing damage to the subsidies and subsidisation of their production, not only amidst natural disasters, but also by some economic factors affecting the life and work of peasants. We're witnessing that from fixing the channel network, first of all from those freeway channels, there's nothing. If it was going manually to clean the canals, I guess in seven years, there would be some effect. As for the secondary or secondary channel network, we're witnessing that they're not being cleaned, but they're suffering what they're saying. Wild construction. All of this also affects how it contributes to further increasing the damage caused by the huge rainfall, by the fact that the infunction of the canal network cannot regulate the water level, and thus not a stream. What the elemental accident was created by an incompetent government is that farmers instead of enjoying some subsidies, some privileges when it comes to fuel prices, they pay a full price for fuel. There's no subsidized oil, no suspension of excise duties when it comes to the needs of peasants. The same thing is paid for oil and oil derivatives and those who use tractors to process the country and those who drive passenger cars. And how can a peasant believe, after seven years, any promise relating to subsidies, when there is no solution to what enters the basic costs, which is the price of energy? There's always been an explanation -- otherwise the finance ministry will compensate for the cost of a farmer buying oil. The price of oil rises, the price of excise duties increases, the level of excise duties increases, the peasants' costs increase. Not to mention the policy that's being conducted when it comes to the purchase of products that the farmer collects from his estates, there's only chaos. We are witnessing year by year that the worse situation is when it comes to the purchase of raspberries, the purchase of other products, because they literally establish monopolies. Monopolies are created when privates, i.e. refrigerators, connect with certain structures of government and thus manipulate the ransom price they determine when agricultural products are concerned. The Serbian Radical Party insists certain steps are finally taken. It can't always be satisfied with the explanation that the elemental accidents are something that can't be affected. True, but it can be prevented, it can be mitigated by the damage resulting from natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57457	Thank you, colleague Miricic. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57458	I thank you, Chairman. I refer the issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia, given the fact that the government has done more than humanely, solidly and in all respects justly by protecting a huge number of refugees from the former SFRY at a time when refugee waves clapped Serbia. Eight hundred thousand refugees from the former SFRY in the initial refugee waves after the pogroms, after "Storm", after "Bleska" found themselves in our country's territory, or Serbia. These are the undisputed reports of the Commissioner for Refugees. What did the state do? Serbia did what it had to do, which is to protect people who had lost their roof over their heads. There are 20,000 apartments provided for 70,000 people. It was about somewhere in that period about 10% meeting needs. Two hundred thousand people, two hundred thousand people were displaced from Kosovo during the famous Pogrom, when numerous families had to leave their homes, their hearths and seek salvation in their mother, in their Serbia. Twenty-six thousand five hundred people in Serbia have refugee status now, of which three-quarters is from Croatia. It should be recalled because of citizens of the Republic of Serbia that at the very beginning of the refugee waves, there were as many as six hundred collective centres in which 60,000 people were found. So 60,000 refugees. Today, after all that Serbia has done, there are only nine collective centres and only 380 people with refugee status. The state has done a lot and it does a lot, and we believe that through its government, the Republic of Serbia, through its institutions, will continue to do whatever is necessary, necessary to meet these people, so that they can achieve what is fundamental, predominantly existential, and everything else that follows. It should be noted that 15,000 housing solutions for refugees from the former Republic, or SFRY so far, have been issued. In 2005, in order to get full affirmation in 2011, the project, called "regional housing programme", should take part, alongside Serbia, BiH, Croatia and Montenegro. One of the questions is: how many, apart from Serbia, have these countries that I mentioned had an effect on the implementation of this programme and have these effects been revealed? Ivica Dacic, as the first deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, was in charge of monitoring the programme. He personally handed over the keys to apartments throughout Serbia, where these apartments were built for the needs of those who needed it most, which were avoided, or displaced persons. Twenty-seven thousand of the most endangered refugee families are on the last list, a large number of which, believe it or not, 16.780 lives in Serbia. For that number, everything is necessary, funds for building apartments, and 200m euros are provided by the EU. The US, Germany, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Turkey, Luxembourg and Switzerland also participate as donors in the security of money. All of this is being serviced through the Development Bank of Europe. Serbia in this sense also gives what it has. These are: own resources available, and housing complexes have been built for displaced persons in Novi Sad, Futoga, Arile, construction is also in Belgrade. The question is at last – what is left to do, which we firmly believe will be realized, in order to achieve the ultimate goal, and that is to ensure that all displaced persons are provided, overly residentially provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57459	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57460	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking the question to the Serbian Public Prosecutor's Office -- why did the Serbian Public Prosecutor's Office not prosecute members of the joint criminal enterprise decorated in the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, who have threatened the integrity of the Republic of Serbia with their statements on Kosovo and Metohija? In the Cachanska bar "Morovski alasi" met on 4 July 2018. Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic, Janko Veselinovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic, Milan Stamatovic and other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia and forged a plan to launch protests and to bring Aleksandra Vukic down on the subject of Kosovo. Instead of tearing down Vukic, they should have agreed to bring Kosovo back from where they drove it. So low fell those moral freaks that the accident of their own people was used for their selfish interests. Let's take the turn. Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, was in talks with US congressman Ted Doe in December 2008, I quote -- the entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is the best Serbia should hope for, finished quote. That's how he stabbed his own country in the back. Vuk Jeremic, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, asked for the transfer of the UN Security Council's Kosovo problem to the EU and thus brought the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija and thus prevented the vetoing of Russia and China in the UN Security Council and thus, for the second time, stabbed his own country. Zoran Zivkovic, former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, said at the International Conference in Vienna in October 2003, I quote - however irrelevant it is to me, whose Kosovo and Metohija have completed the quote. Boris Tadic, in a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, said, I quote -- Kosovo and Metohija's independence doesn't have to mean loss if the voter's heads are set under the right, the quote ends. And Sergei Trifunovic, in a people known as "one gram immediately and two to go" said on January 31st 2019, quoting -- Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians, and not Serbs, finished the quote. Sasa Jankovic said on 3 August 2017, I quote -- it is in Serbia's interest for Kosovo to enter Interpol and thus recognise Kosovo's independence, finished a quote. Nenad Canak said on March 5th 2017 as a presidential candidate without shame and without shame, I quote -- I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence. German diplomat Gert Arens revealed in his book "Georgia on the edge" that Nenad Canak sent Lord Karington at the Conference on Yugoslavia on Vojvodina in December 13, 1991, that the future of Vojvodina to become a confederate unit of Serbia, and if Serbia does not accept it, then Vojvodina will be an independent state, I quote. Cedomir Jovanovic said on 29 September 2015, I quote -- the state of Kosovo is an irrevocable act that continues to ignore only irresponsible politicians, a final quote. Professor Rade Veljanovski, close associate of Sergey Trifunovic and Dragan Djilas, said on 21 April 2018, quote -- that Serbia should recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence and secure a chair in the UN, finished a quote. And Dragan Djilas, in an interview with US Embassy Ambassador Jennifer Bras on 13 August 2009, said, quote - I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic and will give up Kosovo, and Milan was born in a conversation with Vuk Jeremic is the mother of Serbia-Montenegro, and the Wolf is responding to him – you to Serbia, and I to Montenegro to Mother, and Roden – is not but the other way around, laughing insanely. The horror, the horror that the lunatics have led us, we're well alive and we're all gone. This criminal association is being satanicized by the president of the Republic of Vukic and his family and the closest associates in the moment he makes superhuman efforts to find a lasting, fair and compromise solution. When those in the Alliance for Serbia, put themselves in Alexander Vukic's shoes and his family, which we've become accustomed to unfairly suffering from the beatings of lies and tampering from the bottom of a handful of professional, deformed lunatics like those of the Alliance for Serbia, they won't be able to get a significant role in Serbia's political scene, and some of us, and teach in colleges.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57461	Thank you, Your Honor. Atlagic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs - Stefana Miladanovic, unable to attend. We continue a joint, unique search on the motions for decisions from the 4th to 7th agenda, according to the order of application for a word. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, Dr. Ljubic. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57462	Thank you. Dear Chairman, the esteemed representatives of the DVT and the VSS, the honourable MPs, today we have in principle the proposals for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors and the election of judges elected for the first time. At the time of the former government, we had a so-called The reform of the judiciary. It was implemented during 2009. It has caused severe consequences, and ended with a highly controversial re-election of judges and prosecutors. It took a year for them to understand what they'd done. The Constitutional Court's decision was not taken into account, nor was the opinion of the judicial people. So much for applying the Constitution and the laws and functioning of the judiciary during the rule of the DS. All of this affected the creation of a bad image of the state during that period. Essentially, there were no talks on some reforms or some European standards. The re-election process of judges and prosecutors was conducted in a non-transparent way. The objective criteria for re-election developed with the Venice Council of Europe Commission have not been applied. Judges and prosecutors were not given the opportunity to plead during the proceedings, nor were they given adequate arguments. Then, the total number of judges and prosecutors was not calculated in a reliable manner, and was changed several times after the re-election was announced. More than 1,000 judges and prosecutors have lost their jobs. Arrogance, ignorance and haughtiness marked that period. All this clearly states how decisions have been made, which criteria have been applied. The point is that the procedure was conducted untransparently and unconstitutionally. The procedural laws have not been adequately amended. So, with a lot of drawbacks. In practice, we had unprofessional judges. The benefits of such a collapse of justice were those who pumped money and led us to the brink of bankruptcy. It all cost the state, and the price was paid by the citizens in their pockets. Today, the situation in the Serbian judiciary is better than in 2012. Since 2012, the justice ministry has made great efforts to improve the situation in the Serbian judiciary. For the past few years, significant results have been achieved in terms of expertise, the holders of judicial functions. It was an improvement in capacity, transparency, as well as mechanisms of disciplinary responsibility. The performance results were achieved through a reduction in the number of pending cases. All of this in order to achieve the European standard. Judges, prosecutors and police in the fight against corruption and organised crime are visible. The D.A. had good results at work. The fight against corruption is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. A procedure has been launched to amend the Constitution in the area of justice in order to strengthen judicial independence and independence of the prosecution system. The Law on lobbying and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption has been adopted. In March 2018, the application of the new Law in the repression of organised crime, terrorism and corruption, as well as amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, introduced seven new corruption crimes into Serbia's legal system, established four new anti-corruption regional centres in senior public prosecutors and senior courts. Serbia is no longer on the list of countries with strategic shortcomings in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Progress has been welcomed and Serbia has been shown to strengthen the mechanism in this area. The government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to make all necessary efforts to fight every form of crime. The national strategy aims to strengthen judicial independence, as well as comprehensive measures to improve the impartiality and expertise and responsibilities of judicial holders. In this way we will have a faster and more efficient judiciary and more responsible judges. In the election process, it is important to stress that criteria and criteria are foreseen for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for selecting the judge who is first elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57463	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57464	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the authorised representative of the SNS, Mrs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, highlighted all the bad things we experienced during the former regime's rule in its debate. When it comes to the judiciary, the way judges are elected, the way prosecutors are elected, the disastrous reform of the judiciary, etc., I am absolutely sure that, God forbid, Gilas is in power to continue this and such trend and to elect judges and prosecutors exactly as they chose during their power. As in the municipalities, you remember various examples, from various municipalities, such as the Municipality of Vlasotince, we talked about it several times here in the National Assembly, but the judiciary would not only be compromised if Gilas and that team were in power. It is likely that at that time, officials, quite freely, could beat up citizens like when Dragan Gilas in Ralja, next to Sopot, came across a citizen who had an awkward question for him. A man dared to ask him a question and almost got beat up by Gilas, likely that all investors would be expelled from Serbia in line with his attacks on investors who have been intensely performing in recent months in their anxiety. Accordingly, it's likely that all factories would be closed. After all, his most faithful errand boy, Bosko Obradovic, Bosko Yankee, repeatedly announced the closure of the factory if they were in power. It was during that period until he got VIP tickets to the American Embassy, while he played Rufus, while he played the great nationalist, the great patriot, the great Serb, and now that he's got a VIP ticket to the American Embassy, he's no longer interested, people say he's been in the seventh sky for a few days now, hence the Yankee nickname. Furthermore, many media would be shut down in Serbia, either shut down or run out of national frequency if Gilas and the team came to power, because these are their promises, which Dragan Gilas daily makes, every day a man promises to some media in Serbia to run out of national frequency and all that under the firm – fighting censorship. So we're fighting censorship hard, at the same time introducing the scariest censorship. There would be media that would only match Dragan Djilas, Dragan Solak and Mladji Djordjevic. So probably if the "N1" received a national frequency then, likely that "N1" would then become a public service, perhaps even "N1" would be the only television in Serbia, who would know it. You know, Solak doesn't like competition. That same N1, we're witnessing a certain hysteria that's being run on TV these days... Take care now, just one day after Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic announced an extensive investigation into Dragan Djilas, which would include how Dragan Djilas earned the money, how they pumped money by reselling those seconds, etc. So, just one day after the announcement of an extensive investigation in this sense, hysteria begins on N1 television, of course, all by the order of Dragan Gilas, who dared, imagine, to file some kind of criminal complaint. Imagine how much that hit him? Imagine how nervous he is at the very announcement of an investigation that he has earned as many millions, that he is now running as some criminal application for a story that has already been told a hundred times about a degree, etc. And so instead of explaining how he earned those, I'm now going to say 25 million euros. Why 25 million euros? Because he himself admits 25m euros. Of course we all know and the whole of Serbia knows that the figure is much larger than 25m euros, but it recognises that figure itself. His companies, according to documents available to the public, have earned only 74,000 euros in all years of business in the Czech Republic and instead of explaining this difference now and how it is possible that we are in this situation at the moment, and will have the opportunity to explain when the investigation is officially launched, he is now in his anxiety starting the campaign, initiating a hack on Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. What further picture in Serbia would it be? In order to please his coalition partners, let's say the Bosniak Yankee, it is likely that if they were in power, Ljotic would be declared a folk hero to please another coalition partner, let's say that Veselinovic, a false unionist. Perhaps that's when the calls for rape in our country would become legal and legal. In order to please some third coalition partners, it is likely that calls for hangings would be a completely formal matter in Serbia, a complete, normal, everyday one. Foreign policy would be guided just as it was led at the time of Vuk Jeremic and just as Vuk Jeremic spoke with the one he spoke with – j... mother of Serbia and j... Montenegro's mother, with that crazy laugh and other insults at the expense of the Serb people. The army probably wouldn't have or would have exactly what we had during that Shutanovite, the Duke of the Pastures, etc. etc. In the end, I have no doubt that the matter of prestige in that and such a government would be -- how many hundreds of millions of euros did you manage to earn in a highly suspicious way during a time when Serbian citizens were rapidly poor. I don't want to imagine such a Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57465	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57466	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have heard a lot of details from fellow Ljubic, from colleagues Markovic about the misdemeanors of the former regime, but to the very mention of prosecutors and judges, we must remember the disastrous reform of the judiciary that the former regime has carried out and all the blackmail, malfeasance and pressure. If there were now a colleague, Vukadinovic, who has selective amnesia, so he forgave all the mistakes of the Dossian authorities, because he had to bow down to someone to exist at all in political life, the first one would challenge our right to remember it, to remember in 2008 and 2009 and all the consequences that came from that period, and some of them still suffer today. We cannot and must not forget, of course, the former regime would have the perfect answer not to talk about it, not to talk about how they passed laws in parliament that legalized their robberies, how they placed exclusively their staff for judges and prosecutors and dictated their verdicts, even though judges and prosecutors were forbidden to be members of political parties. We can't forget, ladies and gentlemen, because citizens ask when these people will answer to the law. It seems they haven't been able to hide everything, and they haven't covered all the malfeasances, so we now have this investigation of the prosecution and the police, because there are fundamental doubts that Dragan Gilas and his employees in the company, together with part of the former leadership of RTS, participated in serious corruption, related to the purchase of seconds of different television shows under conditions contrary to the law, which means, in practice, that Dragan Gilasa's companies have earned a profit measured at tens of millions of euros. According to investigative journalists, his companies abroad made the biggest profit at the time of his party's rule in Serbia. Money pumped through this kind of malfeasance is the money of Serbian citizens. So we understand that Gilas also earned those 25m euros, which he reported, and we suspect it is not the total property he owns. Connect Gilas's longtime partner, Šolak, and his SBB, to the way Gilas's companies work. The same method, same practice, companies registered outside Serbia, cable and internet connections are illegal, without permission using pillars for public lighting, and the electricity used by SBB is paid by citizens. I hear Solak is also a citizen of Malta. However, Serbia is only asking that, like all others who operate in Serbia, Solak pays his obligations here in Serbia, where he operates. Instead, he found another solution. He's using his media to muddle us so we can stop insisting on putting our business into legal flows. There is work for investigative authorities and the prosecution – to examine 60km of illegal networks, whose deployment in Belgrade enabled SBB personally, Dragan Gilas, at the time of his mayorship. However, it is a long list of contracts that Gilas tied the city of Belgrade to his companies and to the companies of his friends. The attitude towards the budget, towards the citizens, towards Serbia, which has shown everyone together from the former regime, is devastating for Serbia and its citizens, and this same former regime requires that we forget all of this and give them their trust again. In my opinion, that's very hypocritical. We also heard Vuk Jeremic talking to his fellow adviser from Montenegro at the time and what man said about his own country. We're supposed to keep it quiet? We can't keep quiet, we can't forget, it's impossible, because anyone who doesn't respect Serbia doesn't respect its citizens, and it must never be in any state office again. He believes it is the duty of every honorable man to remind the citizens whenever he has the opportunity to remind them of what the hypocrites are, whether it be Jeremiah, Gilas or Bosca Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57467	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. He's not here. ) The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever we come to the subject of judges and prosecutors, relations with the National Assembly, MPs, relations between different institutions or levels of government in our society in general, however you like, we always face important issues and we always face the question of what is an acceptable standard, what is right, what we want as a good practice in a regulated system. It's rightly set up by the state that we should all build in our joint house, which is probably some common interest and purpose. And what are those phenomena that are all but that, therefore, are those phenomena why we have a duty to act and if you want to act as MPs or people who do politics or public work in any way? As citizens of this country, we have come the way when in this room we have gathered together, we have talked about everything that is unacceptable, what happiness appears on a daily basis in our society, and we should not be good practice in a country that takes care of ourselves, of our own interest and should not be acceptable to anyone if we want to make sure that we are organized in the right way, that we respect different levels of government, that we respect each other and that, above all, there is some elemental order. And then we said that what our colleagues mentioned during our debate and yesterday, and today, we find ourselves as some chronic behaviour, unacceptable, and yet behaviour that does not change, which we are facing regularly and something that should be normal, for example, that judges are not dealing with politics, that judges are not dealing with open pressures on the National Assembly and on the MPs, that, therefore, they are implying, and yet we still have the need for such things because of what is happening, to react, to point out them openly, and to be ready to be exposed to that precisely because of this, to the hacks again, to the pressures, to the re-distribution of the foreign ones who, for their own interests, believe that the political interest is correct and to the National Assembly and to us as the parliamentary majority or representatives of the SNS. While we're fighting it, we're going to see what the outcome is, some things seem to be in this constant society. So let's say that, just a few weeks ago in this National Assembly, we said that, for example, it was absolutely unacceptable, that the judge, and you watch out for the judge who has a serious, responsible function in society, so the Court of Appeal is, in fact, dealing with open pressure, naked pressure, against the MPs and telling them that they can't vote in a certain way, that it's a pity for the state if they vote in a certain way, that they will suffer the consequences if they vote in a certain way. On the other hand, he's pointing his finger at the National Assembly and saying, "No, you can't say "s", let alone the judge, no, you can't say "p", let alone the verdict. If we now accept that this is okay, what are we experiencing on the other hand, and is there any proper relationship in all of this, is there any balance or is there just something that is mere will? The mere will of those who believe that because they have decided to deal with politics, he is a rapper for everyone in this world. If they say - that, for example, one, such as Judge Majic, can put pressure on the National Assembly, it's all quite fine, but no, we can't say that this is wrong and that it is absolutely abnormal for a person to be, for example, a high-ranking non-governmental organisation that brings together both judges and prosecutors and lawyers, who are friends, associates and colleagues within that NGO, and that they should have very clearly defined, differentiated roles in our state system, which do not mean that they are best friends and associates, but that each of them has some role that the law has prescribed for him and that everything is just not a normal phenomenon for a judge and one lawyer, which is here in the office of defense attorneys, and the judge is a friend and the nearest possible associate from their joint NGO. Any such examples in the world? We couldn't find them, but when we say it's all wrong, of course, we'll end up on the front page for that, in all possible and impossible accusations, slanders, insults, and you know it by heart. As we point to these things, something seems to be happening after all. Last time we talked about this organization of CEPRIS, which belonged to the judge mentioned, and which was on, as they were then depicting in that period, a highly ranked third place, a third position in hierarchy in that organization. The first was Slobodan Beljanski, as president of the NGO, the second was Miodrag Jovanovic, and the third was the mention of Majic. This is what their front page looked like. In the meantime, they seem to understand how much damage both to them and to anything that should represent a common or public interest, and they are trying to represent it as some of the interests of their organization, how much harm it is that such people represent them, it seems, so there have been some changes, so now more Beljanski, which we talked about among other things and because the court found that his doctorate is controversial, is no longer president. So, he's now second-ranked in that organization. Majic is no longer on the front page, he is now one of the simple members of the board of directors, which, by the way, has decided to give the thing a little extra disguise. They have a new president, it's Vida Petrovic Shkero, former president of Serbia's Supreme Court, but that kind of humanist combination does not solve problems. They keep gathering, when you look at their composition today, both judges and prosecutors and different lawyers. They today represent the closest possible associates and colleagues who will comment again on what the National Assembly is doing and how MPs should vote and how to deal with what law, whether we have the right or do not have the right to participate in the procedure of amending the Constitution and all that, once again, you know all by heart, they will continue to work. Perhaps the only difference is that the current president is greatly promoting himself as a member of an informal group, the self-defense group called itself, which should promote certain values in society. When we talk about holders of such important functions as judges and prosecutors, we also need to talk about values. My colleagues noticed correctly. Some people should have this kind of obligation to, for example, work, if the judges are in public on issues of public interest, of any social interest, if they have the authority of the elder. Is it possible that there is any agreement, or is it always about simple self-will, because I don't know who could have any support of the system in any way to promote those, call it values, which are directly against every order, every system and every good public interest? For example, when a member of that informal group, how they baptized themselves "Self defense" and sat at the same table with Jovo Bakic, who called for a break in RTS with long pipes, with that cartoonist Petricic, who says - we should not have any choice in this country, the matter should be sharpened until the end, and everyone knows what that means. It's the law of the mob and the law of the street. Do you promote that as a value? Should you represent any judges in this country, any prosecutors in this country? I think it's all just wrong and that's why I say that I'm talking about things that shouldn't happen, that it's meant not to happen, but we still have them. Of course, it's purely political activities, strictly political activities. These people don't hide their political taste, their side. These people don't hide that their public action is, I'm going to say, against every interest, every interest of society and state, because violence is not a good interest of society and state. Taking over without a choice is not a good interest in society and state. They do not hide that they are doing so because they are not politically satisfied, they see themselves as angry opponents of Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the parliamentary majority. Is that something to promote? Should that be done by people who are judges and prosecutors? Absolutely not. On the other hand, it is at the same time that it is dangerous for society to be harmful and the parade of severe distaste of all the worst when it comes to the character of human beings, you promote with these people in society these things, the representation of Serbia for the concentration camp, Alexander Vukic for Pinocchio. This is one of the famous works of this particular Petricic whom everyone admires and who, I would like to remind you of, I would like to introduce Alexander Vukic to one of my cartoons of these great works of art in bed with the state of Serbia, with some comment, I will paraphrasise - How I have dishonored you for the past few years, and you are doing nothing on your part. You see how strange life is and how it can sometimes be ironic in front of events. That in this way someone treated the state of Serbia and our citizens, we actually got confirmation that it was happening, but it's not about Alexander Vukic, and it's not about someone in the propaganda pamphlet drawing him or somewhere, no, such a relationship, in its own words, was recognised by Vuk Jeremic, that he defamed Serbia and Montenegro, along with his friend, adviser to the Montenegrin president at the time. They laughed so sweetly, thrilled that they were doing so well, doing well, all hanging out, providing themselves with all kinds of commos, apartments on luxury resorts, who knows what. In doing so, they defamed Serbia and Montenegro, you know what they say, just to end up being dirty. That's how they said it, said it, and laughed at it with pleasure. You see, for those things that you're trying to impute others, that as the most dirty label you can throw at the one you're politically into, eventually they come to your door, they end up hanging on your lapel, and that's what all of Serbia hears, and of course there's no defense. That is why the defences I spoke about just before these days cannot be found publicly commenting on both the case and their behaviour and their good and dear Jeremic. They've escaped into the mice' holes, aware of what it means and are trying, of course, to wash themselves from that unpleasantness, one of the greatest ever, as well as all the others by inventing an affair, by trying to make God's accusations on behalf of someone from the SNS, and only to change the subject, if he can. It's hardly gonna work. Is this about their internal reckoning that a recording of Vuk Jeremic's conversation with this man from Montenegro has appeared? I've heard theories like that. I heard comments that Gilas may have solved it, as he has access to sources that could have made the recording, to deal internally with Jeremic. I don't know. I don't really care about that. I want to know what they did to this country and to this people. But I wouldn't be surprised if that were the case. It makes sense, it has its own justification. Sam Dragan Gilas, if he hasn't already, will address Serbia's competent authorities and will seek protection, because he thinks he has been wrongly accused, the presumption of innocence in his case has been compromised. Do they mean what? Because a few days ago, Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said that the competent services are dealing with research, so it is mild to say the suspicious affairs that Dragan Gilas had through his companies with RTS. But what did Nebojsa Stefanovic say? The competent authorities are doing their job. The investigation will show whether there's something or not. What Serbian citizens think about all this, it is quite clear, but Nebojsa Stefanovic said correctly and professionally – we will see, if the results are, it will be a big affair, but if they are. Nothing breaks in advance. To the state when you're serious and responsible, it's the only way you can do it. So let the authorities do their job. And what happened next? He cried out to me today in his media Dragan Gilas to say - no, they must now and the court and the prosecution and everyone living to protect me, because that someone is saying that I am guilty, and if they were now asked who was the source of that story, that topic, who was the source of that information, it's not about whether it's true or not, but what kind of individual roles of different people are in it, including Dragan Gilas, but who's the source of that information, if the information bothers him? I keep you a report that's a source. The report wasn't from three days ago. It's a 2011 report. The report was drafted by the Anti-Corruption Council on 19 September 2011. A report on press pressures and media control in Serbia. Report signed and presented to the public by Verica Barac. And there's no one on that side of the political spectrum that he didn't admire her, congratulated on her courage, etc. But those are the words. Those are words, and words are at least cheap for those people, if they haven't already proven to us that they're worthless. And what's the relationship to content? Here, look at this one. They say it's not true, it's a lie. From 2011 to today, none of them have shown that anything is true. And that's where it says, and no one came up with it a day or two or three ago. It says here, Verice Barac's report says that the companies of Dragan Gilas worked in a very privileged regime with RTS, that others who worked with RTS were able to collect their services and engagements in seconds, and those seconds were forced to sell to Dragan Gilas. And you know how? Not according to the official pricemaker, but ten times less, at ten times the cost that after that commercial price, it would only apply when Dragan Gilas's companies began to have those seconds, while his companies themselves were deep in the RTS business, directly, did not charge anything for seconds or less expensive or cheap, but money, cash, and you know what kind of, record-good money. They received an episode of their series or reality that they were doing by, I think, 13,000 euros. That information is here as well as everything else. So, they're all listed by Verice Barac. Nobody makes that up. Well, who could have boasted that he was doing such a good job? And when you know that, then it's all clear to you, then it's clear to you how money is made, so from a man who publicly reports that he's had some companies around Europe, but claiming that these companies have made a fortune, although their profits have been in a few thousand euros, a few thousand euros, suddenly becoming a party, high-ranking officer, suddenly becoming a state official or director of the office of the President of the Republic or there some adviser, so a small minister of MIP at Kostunica, and the mayor of Belgrade ends up, both counterparts Markovic and counterpart Risticevic and counterpart Atlagic spoke, ends with official property applications worth tens of millions of euros, officially reported. It's not that anyone suspects anyone has, no, I reported it, confessed. When this level of wealth is achieved in public function during policy-making, and that is precisely from policy-making, it will also be because of policy-making beings, these are serious things. And when it is said, as Nebojsa Stefanovic said - it should be determined by the competent authorities, and only so honestly, so that we can see what anyone has or doesn't have. What's the reaction? Of course, new napkins of accusations, new salves of disgusting lies and a campaign of debauchery. And it's no new thing, it's no surprise that the role of being the chief pendr Dragana Djilasa is to win this very merry Bosko Obradovic. Everyone knows that its useful value is about today just enough to be in that role it has on the recall of Dragan Djilas, that it also deals with the realisation of dirty jobs, such as this last one that makes the last days on the subject of Mr Stefanovic's interior minister. What is it they do? Well, reversing the topic or trying to turn the subject away, but so pointlessly, so transparently and so much without any possible useful outcome for them that it has already become worrying. They tried to, I will now try to remember everything that's been going on for the last two days, to accuse Nebojsa Stefanovic with words – he stole his diploma from basic studies, he forged a diploma from basic studies, he participated in crime on that occasion, and everything else on the subject. In doing so, they are talking about a procedure that was implemented at the university which was attended by Nebojsa Stefanovic in 2004-2005, and in this procedure he was nothing different, nor better, nor worse than anyone who studied then on the same study programme. That's what that university says, but no one has to say today, you know that in this country. So these studies have existed since the 1990s and ended them, so I don't want to say thousands of people, let's say a concrete program, a thousand and a few people, and a total of thousands, and a total of them at that university to date, so there must be over 20,000 people. And today they've decided there's something controversial about it. But there can't be anything special about the case of Heavenly Stefanovic, such as it isn't, because first of all, there's no reason to be. They want to play any kind of political influence. What was 2004, 2005 Nebojsa Stefanovic? A student like everyone else. He wasn't in any state office, and he must have been away from anything for years. And, uh, those procedures that he conducted at his university, he did exactly the same as everyone else. Was there anything controversial about anyone then? It's not. Is there something wrong when they say everything was legal? Well, they're not wrong, because, by law and in the 1990s and two thousand years, it's about that college that's had a full affirmation of those precisely two thousand years. And it was under the law and no one, of course, was at all contentious. If he had anything to do with it then, did Dragan Gilas or any of them deal with that college when they came to power for two thousand years to challenge something? Well, it's not, of course. It was legal, and they know it was. Did they deny any permission to that college? No, they're not. In 2005, if we're talking about that year, did the accreditation process take place in this modern system that we know today? Yes, it is. Was that college accredited? Yes, it is. Have any of the various dossos and departments of enlightenment challenged anything on the subject? It's not. Neither they, nor the national councils, nor the accreditation bodies that functioned in these national councils. Why? Because it was perfectly clear to everyone that it was all by law. Today when someone pretends to have discovered something fantastic, and in doing so, discover, imagine, not about this or that politician, but about the functioning of a university, it's about the story of stupidity. This story of nonsense, notary nonsense stories, because he never found anything controversial, and he could have, a million times, that he wanted to while he was both in power and when he asked for permits and when he asked for accreditation. And not that he didn't find anything controversial, but he openly showed that there was nothing controversial about it. Was it 2008 that college had one fantastic promotion just by Boris Tadic? He went there to give a lecture. In 2010, did this very university also have a fantastic promotion by Vuk Jeremic? A man went there to give a lecture, he said – it was an honor to address such a remarkable institution. He knows all this Dragan Gilas, don't think he doesn't know at all. Maybe that's why he's sending his beat to Bosko Obradovic to deal with this topic today. He knows the subject is hollow and stupid, but he also knows that we will mention Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic in this topic. Well, connect now if it has anything to do with that video that showed up about Wolf Jeremic, so I don't tell you much more. But if that were all the case, in 2013, Dragan Gilas reminded himself of the university, the University of Syngidunum, and that his insolence and his hypocrisy would be desecrated so far. They reminded him who everyone, and the Gilassites, and his associates, the closest associates, the people who attended that university, ended up on him for what was fundamental in postgraduate studies. So much for their intense taste and attitude that there's something wrong. Here, to remind you, that University told Gilasu -- the schooling there, so on the same Megatrend, they realised, so they studied or finished their studies, and the assistant defence minister, the DS staff, and the MP from the meeting also called the protocol chief in Boris Tadic's cabinet and the head of cabinet of former Minister Dusan Petrovic. They didn't mind, and neither did when that university gives them scholarships, so it sends them abroad to further perfect them, but to make it very clear to the end of what kind of hypocrisy it is, they also reminded Dragan Gilas himself, City Secretary for Education and Children's Protection, for the education of the City Secretary, in the city of Belgrade, whose head Dragan Gilas, while also vice-president of the DS City Committee, assistant Gilasov, his direct associate in DS at the City Committee, and Dragan Gilas was then burning and burning, not only the city of Belgrade, but also DS, and especially its city board, which was his base for spreading his tentacles, and she was, at that very moment, at the doctoral studies at Megatrend University. Then it is quite clear to you that all of this is empty, hollow and that it does not serve anything, but that we remember the role of Vuk Jeremic, that this story will certainly burn, not today, not this week, but from now on, about what they did to Serbia's mother, Montenegro's mother, Vuk Jeremic and others, but not to amnest Dragan Dilas. When he addresses the court, the prosecution, it wouldn't be bad for someone to remind him that in a serious state of spin crap, so to speak, they can never influence the work of institutions if they take care of their dignity, what their job is, the letter of the law that should be the beginning and the end of every story, and these various self-deceptions, as they are already called. If tomorrow they will speak again on the subject of the Constitution when we discuss whether either one of us knows or doesn't know, respects, respects, respects, because the gentlemen of these days are silent, and when they talk, they like to talk about whether they are together with Gilas, Jeremic, this and this Bosko Obradić some great elite, and we are all citizens of the second order. You know what, toothpicks that don't work, nothing is worth it, and they can't wonder why our vote vote is worth as much as theirs. It wouldn't be bad for those gentlemen to remind themselves of, say, a member of the 21st Constitution and, say, Article 49. Both say that discrimination is unacceptable in any way in our society and, moreover, absolutely forbidden, and there is no worse discrimination than showing that you are worth more than other people. So much more that you look at their right to have their stand, to love someone, to respect someone, to vote for something, and to love their country, to think that your desire to have your pocket is more important than anyone else and that makes you something else, something more or more important. Those who did not realize in politics that this is not only the opposite of the Constitution, but it is the opposite of human relations, are today on a single-digit percentage of support, and when they turn, like Dragan Gilas, with any appeal to protect their threatened rights, they should only be reminded that they represent no higher class, higher caste, so it is normal to ask the question – where did you get 500 million while the state was losing 500,000 jobs, gentlemen dear? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57469	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57470	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, will address several issues that are very important for the citizens of Serbia, and are important for you who come from these highest judicial institutions. The other day I had a debate with Mr. Vukadinovic about how he created a paradigm about who the SNS voters were, that they were people who were mostly poorly educated, that the gypsies, that they lived by what kind of mahales, sick, told a woman that he couldn't say the word "Vucic" because it's complexed in the head, etc. This may seem ridiculous at first sight, and it is actually very dangerous because it exposes the roses of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and thus redistributes Serbia to allegedly elite Serbia, which is to be represented by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Djordje Vukadinovic and similar to them, and us who are exactly what Djordje Vukadinovic described. So we're poorly educated, we're credentials, we're half-written, we're sick, we can't say the word "Vucic" because we have certain mental, or physical problems. I thought that was the end of it, that we put an end to it a few days ago when we had a discussion with Mr. George Vukadinovic. Today, however, I see that the campaign continues. The Balkan Institute for Social Research, the famous BIRODI, I don't know how it came to know that SNS voters, according to them, are mostly the oldest citizens of Serbia and are poorly educated. Why am I saying this? Because in Serbia, the right to vote is secret. If the right to vote is secret, as someone, including the Bureau, can know who votes for the SNS and who can say that SNS is voted by people who are, as a rule, over 65 years old and who are, as they say, poorly educated. This continues to discredit Serbian citizens, and all with the aim of presenting that in fact Aleksandar Vukic is the leader of some illiterate, poorly educated, old Serbia, and that Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Djordje Vukadinovic, Boris Tadic, and similar representatives of some new, perspective, elite Serbia. This is what I'm saying, among other things, and because of you from the D.A.'s Council of Prosecutors because I think it's high time for the prosecution to react to these dangerous phenomena. I think that in what he published today, there are a lot of elements of different crimes, as I think it is time for the prosecution to react to what we are witnessing these days, all of which are living in the Republic of Serbia, and these are now not secret talks between then-in-law Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, who is now representing himself as a nationalist, as someone who would defend Kosovo and Metohija, who would defend Serbs in Montenegro, and then Serbia-Montenegro Foreign Minister in Moscow Milan Rocen. Also, I would like to say that there are at least two reasons why yesterday and today, and it will likely continue in the coming days, runs an unsuspecting campaign against the Minister of Interior Nebojska Stefanovic. The first reason is that Nebojsa Stefanovic, as interior minister, has publicly announced that the MUP has started collecting evidence of the illegal wealth of Dragan Djilas, and I will remind you that Dragan Djilas began his illegal wealth since he became director of the anti-constitutional National Office of President Boris Tadic and at the time he was mayor of Belgrade, and when he succeeded in those few years to enrich himself for at least 500m euros. So as soon as the interior minister announced that police are starting intensively collecting evidence of the wealth of Dragan Djilas, the campaign against Neboja Stefanovic began. The second reason is that all Serbian citizens can finally see, read, hear what Vuk Jeremic said in 2005, while allegedly serving the military deadline, as adviser to the president, then-president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, in his talks with then-Montenegro's foreign minister in Moscow, Rocen. Otherwise, to remind you of distinguished colleagues, it is the same one Rocen who maintained the relationship between Oleg Devipasca and Milo Djukanovic. Otherwise, Oleg Devipasco, it's that businessman and tycoon that shows up in one video, which you can see on YouTube, when Vladimir Putin, as president of the Russian Federation, came to one of Russia's districts, gathered all the businessmen from that district and told them -- you have to pay off all the wages to the employees of the companies you privatized during Boris Jeljecin. The last person to sign that obligation was Oleg Devipasco, you can see it in those videos. Putin gives him a contract he needs to sign with the workers, he's supposed to read it a little bit, he doesn't know a thing about it. He wanted to get a pen to sign the contract, he didn't have a pen, Vladimir Putin pulls out a pen, gives him to sign the agreement, and finally tells him - give me back my pen. Now, this is Oleg Devipask, who was one of the sponsors of the current Montenegrin government, and the link between Oleg Devipasca and the regime in Montenegro was just Milan Rocen, who is one of the main protagonists of talks with then-protagonist Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic. Before I say anything about these conversations, which the Prosecutor's Office absolutely has to react to because they contain a whole series of criminal acts and criminal acts against the state and against the state's regulation, I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia of an interview that Vuk Jeremic hides as a snake of his feet. However, thanks to the internet release of the famous German list "Spigl", we can read that Vuk Jeremic, then as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, gave an interview on 14 January 2008 to the German "Spiglu" in which he says, among other things, that is, the same one, Vuk Jeremic, who is today diving crocodile tears over Serbs in KIM, over Serbs in Montenegro, who boasts that he is forming his municipal committees on KIM, who count one man. Asking reporters "Spigla" about the consequences of NATO bombing Serbia-Montenegro in 1999, Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister at the time of the Republic of Serbia, explains to the German journalist that it was not a war against Serbia and that it was not a war against Serbs, but rather a dictatorial regime, NATO won, and Milosevic said he had to withdraw his forces from Kosovo. So, he does not see the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav Army and the forces of the Republic of Serbia, as the legal armed forces of his country, but says – Milosevic had to withdraw his troops, as if they were the private troops of Slobodan Milosevic from Kosovo. The winner dictated the terms of the truce and they are contained in Resolution 1244. Not to read any further, you can enter the site "Spigla", there you can see all the worst things then, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic is talking about his own state, about how the forces of Slobodan Milosevic killed Albanians in KIM, how they were expelled and that all of this justified NATO aggression against Serbia-Montenegro in 1999. So it was in January 2008. Now, I want to go back to 2005. In 2005, it was one of the breaking years for the fate of the Serbia-Montenegro common state. In Serbia, there were forces, strong forces, which were to preserve Serbia-Montenegro's common state, and strong support for the preservation of Serbia-Montenegro's common state. It was also in Montenegro itself, which was primarily the Socialist People's Party, which was headed by the recently late Momir Bulatovic. In 2005, therefore, when Serbia-Montenegro's fate was broken, Vuk Jeremic held a discussion on how to provide accommodation for 29 of his friends at a hotel in St. Stefan. The conversation is being held between Vuk Jeremic and this Mr Rocen, and in that conversation, among other things, Vuk Jeremic says the following. So I'll read it in an authentic version of what a transcript of this conversation looks like. Rocen – Hello, hello. Because Wolf Jeremic calls him. Hello, Milan, it's Wolf, I'm sorry. Says Rocen - Never mind, mate. Born – All clear. I just wanted you to know that information. So I also heard from the director, called him the minister. Director of the Budvana Riviera. He's on the phone with Per Radjenovic, and they've already got 29 rooms. If they need more, they'll get more. He'll be called or already called Pero Radenovic. Jeremic – Pero Radinović? What's the function of what? Who is he? He's the director there. Says Jeremic – Director of St. Stefan. Well, let's get him to look for Per Radenovic. He's already called him, I think. Says Jeremic – Good. Now I'm gonna call, check it out. If he didn't call him, he'd call this Per Radenovic. Says Rocen – Yes, it's all over, he told me. This one says-- everything's for you, buddy, the director tells me. Says Jeremic, I apologize to the ladies, these are the authentic words of that smooth, big European Vuk Jeremic. Says Jeremic - Well, good. Everybody knows who the fuck he is, the man in charge. Says Rocen – Who is the chief adviser. Says Jeremic – well, exactly. And Rocen's laughing. Jeremic – So we have this advisory lobby of ours, the advisory union, each other. _Other Organiser - Fuck, we fucked the mother of Serbia-Montenegro. [[Laughter]] And they're both having a crazy laugh attack. Jeremic says – You're Serbia, I'm Montenegro, for fuck's sake. Then they laugh again. The laughter continues, and it's very funny otherwise that they've torn our country apart. Then Jeremic says – Oh, my master, thank you very much, thank you Milan, thank you very much, my friend. Thank you for what? For being an asshole to Vuk Jeremic and his associates who destroyed the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, for which hundreds of thousands and more than a million people laid down their lives in both the First and the Second World War. He says Rocen - Come on, if you need it, let me know. Okay, I'll let you know. Now, just first of all, I was, uh, totally cut off. So, the man totally cut himself off whether this one would provide him with 29 rooms in St. Stefan, when he told him he was secure, he was relieved immediately. What will happen to Serbia-Montenegro, they don't care. It's the first development. So it's a 2005 conversation. The prosecution has to react to this. The prosecution must react against people who have worked actively to break Serbia-Montenegro's common state. It wasn't their private front. So Montenegro's accession decision was made at the Podgorica Assembly in 1918. From 1918 to the appearance of such villains who destroyed the country, Vuk Jeremic, Rocen and similar to him, Serbia-Montenegro were in continuance in the common state, regardless of whether it was called the Kingdom of SHS, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, FNRJ, SFRY, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, but were in the common state. That's why Vuk Jeremic, now I'm talking about Vuk Jeremic, this Rocen is not very interested, he is now one of the main associates of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, but Vuk Jeremic has done irreparable damage to the first state of Serbia, the Serb people in Montenegro, but what I also want to point out to our neighbours and our Muslim friends, or Bosniaks living on the border between Serbia and Montenegro, he has divided the Bosniaks, or forced the Bosniaks to live in one country, while others live in another country and thus made these people enormous, irreparable damage. So that's the first conversation the D.A. has to react to. Because if the D.A. isn't responding to a coup, what's the crime that the D.A.'s office is going to react to? So, I'm saying this because this is one of the reasons why today, yesterday, and why the next days will be led by an unwitting campaign against Neboj Stefanovic, because it is necessary to hide the shame and shame of Vuk Jeremic, it should hide that Vuk Jeremic, in fact, was one of Serbia-Montenegro's main destroyers. To hide it, we now need to deal with the degree of Nebojja Stefanovic, which he acquired in 2004 or 2005, at a time when he was in absolute opposition to the regime of Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic's regime and all his institutions could review it along and across, the degree of Neboja Stefanovic. They didn't do it then because they couldn't find anything controversial, but remembered in 2019, when talks were published between Vuk Jeremic and Milan Rocen, when talks between Milan Rocen and Oleg Deripasca were published, and I ask you to listen to that conversation, he says a lot about the influence of Russian tycoon circles on the current government in Montenegro. When these talks appeared, an unfeeling campaign against Neboja Stefanovic began. This unfeeling campaign is led by the second, rather than the main errandman Dragan Đilasa – Bosko Obradovic, who constantly calls Nebojsa Stefanovic to show one of his schoolmates, to show his diploma, etc., and Bosko Obradovic has graduated, and that is what Serbian citizens should know, at Prof. Mila Lompara, who is a member of Dveri's political council. That's true. So, Bosko Obradovic graduated from his party colleague's minority, whose boss he is, because Bosko Obradovic is President Dveri and that professor. Milo Lompar is a member of the political council and a man has graduated from a man who is subordinated to him in a party called Dvori. So it's the first conversation that relates to the security of 29 rooms in St. Stefan's in 2005. We have a second conversation from 2005 that was held between Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, ahead of Boris Tadic's visit to Moscow. I don't want to read it all, there's a lot of it, but I just want to draw your attention to a few things. How much time do I have left, Mr. Milicevic, so I can concentrate?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57471	You've got enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57472	Okay. Thank you. You remember, dear colleagues, when Milenko Jovanovic said wife Vuk Jeremic was the main drug dealer in Serbia. The woman cried, ran to these colleagues on RTS, who had fallen into it a few months ago with the saws, as it is reportedly Vucic's television, ran to a woman on RTS to cry there, so it's hard for her to say, well, as someone could say, well, they're a great couple, so it's an example of love, so she's an honest and honest woman, so who could, what kind of monster could come up with the idea that she had anything to do with drug dealers. And then we come to this conversation from 2005, which actually reveals what Vuk Jeremic is like. And now that I read this, even though Milenko Jovanovic apologized for what he said, but now that I read this from 2005, I don't know, the right to tell you if he had any reason to apologize. This is a conversation between Vuk Jeremic, then adviser Boris Tadic, and one of the main Serbian tycoons who worked in Moscow, Mr. Grujic. Grujic says, as Vuk Jeremic calls him on the phone: "Hello? “ Jeremy says: “I don’t want to walk around the hotel, do I? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Grujic: "Well, don't make such a joke, Jeot! “ Jeremiah: “Look out, look out! I had a dilemma about walking. ” Grujic: "I knew it, I knew it, I saw you come, but it's not so late, you drank a little, classic variant, you're going to see this one," thinking of a Russian woman who, yes, performs certain hotel activities in Moscow, "will break your character, just like me every time." Then says Grujic: "Yes, yes. “ and they're both laughing. Then he goes on like this. Vuk Jeremic asks Grujic if he knows Boris Germanov. Grujic says, "Well, I know him so superficially, he's a good partner with my friend Arkadi, it's a Jewish relationship." Then Jeremic says: “E, great. It means a lot to me, because now I'm finally going to close that channel of information and say," I apologize to the ladies, it's a great European, a smooth man who's never cursed in his life, unlike us who are credentials, who we curse, who we're disabled, etc., "smoker, suck, it's not true, you suck... Oh, great, I knew it. I'm sorry I asked you in the first place, but they asked me to check that particular information. Because, so now the information has come that this, since they, so this whole crew, the service crew, she doesn't love you and is waging a war against you, you know? “ That’s what Vuk Jeremic says to Grujic. Now, look at the people who led this country. Well, it's a good thing we're even alive. It's a good thing we even have a country. Who was our foreign minister and before that, adviser Boris Tadic. He says Jeremic, again in talks with this Grujic, is now making fun of Boris Tadic. Now look at the hypocrisy. A man who is a adviser to Boris Tadic, who is with him today in the Alliance for Serbia, who claims Boris Tadic has been the best president of the Republic of Serbia since Serbia and since we have the institution of the president of the Republic, they've been mocking that same Boris Tadic. According to Grujic, about Boris Tadic, I apologize to the ladies again, so much for this elite Serbia: "Oh, smoke a bitch, for God's sake, the president of the country is coming to the second largest country in the world, it is, we're going to run it like a monkey in Moscow, you know." And the Wolf Jeremy falls into a crazy laugh. So now they're going to lead Boris Tadic like a monkey in Moscow, and the president of the state, however he is, is the president of the state. The Vuk Jeremic, his adviser and Vuk Jeremic, laughs at the words that they will lead Boris Tadic around Moscow as a monkey. Then Rocen explains, it is now a new conversation, Rocen-Grujic, now Rocen explains who the people around Boris Tadic are. We can find out a lot about how the government actually functioned in Serbia and 2005/2006. The year he was intensively in the process of breaking up Serbia-Montenegro's common state, few worked on it, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, little in Montenegro, Milo Djukanovic and his team, and there is no longer a common state of Serbia-Montenegro. This is now a conversation and the prosecution has to react to it now, I don't see these ladies from the State Council of Prosecutors, and I can see that one of them was very concerned about why we challenged the candidacy for the Deputy Attorney General in Capco, but she doesn't care much about the appearance of these crimes against the state and the state's office. This is now a conversation between Milan Rocen, then Serbia-Montenegro's foreign minister and that Grujic -- I was with Vuk, you know, I saw Boris for a minute. Now, look, the president of the Republic is coming to Moscow, he's being welcomed by the foreign minister and he says, "I saw Boris for a minute." You see how important Boris Tadic was to them, he saw him for a minute. He says I'll tell you about it. There are three circles of people around Tadic. The first one, he says, is the business circle. They laugh at us today, they say we're lying, we're crazy, we're making up, we're cheating, Rocen says it's business circle. You can imagine who is in that business circle, first, Miroslav Miskovic. Says Grujic-huh. Then there's some kind of rational circle. Who's in the rational circle? The rational round is Jelica Kurjak, who was then an adviser to the Serbian-Montenegro embassy in Moscow, and later was an ambassador to Moscow and Vuk Jeremic, who were pro-Westernly oriented but not to approach Russia. So they are not for approaching Russia, and today Vuk Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic, are killing themselves to explain how we should establish stronger ties with Russia. He says there's also a third circle, an extreme circle. In the extreme circle, you know who he is, Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic, according to them, is an extreme Serbian nationalist. So there is a business circle there is the first Miskovic, there is this rational circle, there is Vuk Jeremic, who is pro-Western and which is against approaching Russia and there is, imagine some extreme circle led by then-president Boris Tadic. Says the guy who was at the airport. Look out, ladies and gentlemen, one sentence that tells you clearly about who left the Serbs in Montenegro in the lurch. Today they are campaigning in a senseless way against the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic that he does nothing for the Serbs in Montenegro, which is a lie, because there is no more important event happening in Serbia without Aleksandar Vukic calling on Pupovac from Zagreb and Dodik and representatives of the Serbs from Montenegro. So if anyone gathers all the Serbs from the region, gathers them together and tries to help them in every way possible, it's Alexander Vukic. Now Milan Rocen convinces Grujic of a conversation between Boris Tadic and Putin, when Boris Tadic visited Moscow. Putin therefore asks Boris Tadic – what about the Serbs in Montenegro? Boris Tadic says -- however, these are political Serbs they want to create a Serb national minority in Montenegro. Rocen keeps him from it and says, "Oh, that's bullshit, don't do it, that's not how a civil state is created." So, Vladimir Putin asks, the Russian president asks the Serbian president – what about your people in Montenegro? And he says -- well, it's a political people, then there's a curse -- it's a political people fucking god, they're trying to create a national minority of themselves, but I don't want to go to it, so no civil state is created. At the end of what we from the SNS often talked about why Vuk Jeremic liked to travel, it can be clearly seen from talks between Grujic and Rocen. Says Grujic – in America this small one, thought of Vuk Jeremic, so yes, he wears shoes number 36. In America, this little one, this one's going crazy, so right to tell you I'm not much of a visitor to America, says Grujic – yes, yes. He asks Rocen, so what does he do in America all the time? So fuck me if I told you and you'd go see your ass on the road, good journals, whatever you want. There's always others there, so I know what to do to him. These are three talks between Vuk Jeremic and two talks between Milan Rocen and Grujic. From these talks, we can conclude that Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, those from Serbia, are the most responsible for breaking up Serbia-Montenegro's state union. That Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, because to remind you while Vuk Jeremic was an adviser to Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas was the director of Boris Tadic's National Office and was absolutely directed to all the talks that were held. That is why my colleague Vladimir Orlic may be right when he says that this is actually a struggle, perhaps a struggle within the Alliance for Serbia, that this conversation was in fact revealed by Dragan Djilas because he knew about them because at the time he was the director of Boris Tadic's National Office, otherwise completely invented by an institution that was not known by the Constitution at the time. So, Dragan Gilas was absolutely directed to all these conversations. From these talks, we can conclude that Serbia-Montenegro was the most responsible from Belgrade, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas and those with them at the time. That Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic are the most responsible for leaving the Serbian people in Montenegro at large, which his queen turned her back on him and that Boris Tadic was intent on creating a civil state as he says. He created by breaking Serbia-Montenegro, refusing to help Serbs in Montenegro establish themselves even as a national minority because he said they were political Serbs. I don't know what political Serbs are and what not political Serbs are. I know that there are Serbs, that there are Bosniaks, Hungarians, Slovaks, etc., but that there are political and not political Serbs I didn't know about it until before Putin was told by then by President Boris Tadic. I said all of this because there are people present here from the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors and it is high time for the prosecution to launch legislation against Vuk Jeremic, against Boris Tadic, against Dragan Dilas and all others who worked actively to break Serbia-Montenegro, who actively worked to destroy the national, religious and cultural rights of the Serb people in Montenegro and that the prosecution was justified by the law of prescribed action against Vuk Jeremic, who as foreign minister in 2008 claimed that NATO aggression against Serbia-Montenegro had been justified because Milosevic had conducted terror, killed and banished Albanians to KIM, and that is why NATO defeated its troops, and I am undermining my troops from Kosovo. These are crimes against the state order and the prosecution must not remain silent, and Serbian citizens should know that the campaign against Neboja Stefanovic and now it is only a question of who is next, whose diploma we will now have to question, because Bosko Obradovic said so and because Dragan Djilas said so. This is why a campaign is being campaigned these days against one of the closest associates, Aleksandar Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic. He is now a controversial diplomat of a man who graduated at a time when he was in absolute opposition, who was at the time, if I am not mistaken, Deputy Secretary General of the Serbian Radical Party Alexander Vukic. And at that time, the Ministry of Education carried out all possible checks on the diplomas, which I know reliably that they were doing. So they were checking out all possible diplomas. And not only did they check out diplomas, here, there are colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, some of them were ministers in the Serbian government and did their job honorably, at a difficult time, at a time when there was a fight with the Shiptar terrorists on KIM and when Serbia-Montenegro defended itself from NATO aggression, they did their job with honor. We can now politically differ here on some topics, but I know they have done their job with honor, both Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta and Mirčić and Dragan Todorovic and Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic and Maja Gojkovic, etc. And after the 5th of October 2000, they twisted all these people to find something, and the late Zoran Krasic, so they turned all these people on the line, combed their private lives, what they did when they were ministers, dealt with their private lives. They couldn't find anything controversial, not a single crime, they couldn't find any controversial diplomas, or a degree in Heavenly Stefanovic. And then they remembered the degree of Nebojsa Stefanovic in 2019, when a man at a press conference says - the MUP is starting to collect evidence against Dragan Djilas, and here he is, you see, as the devil always comes for himself - it is now not a secret conversation, Vuk Jeremic, Rocen and Grujic, from which it is seen that rooms at St. Stefan's were provided to Russian women by hotel in Moscow, how Serbia-Montenegro broke down, how they laughed to their president, Boris Tadic, and said they would lead him as a monkey in Moscow, etc. That is why there is a campaign against Neboja Stefanovic and that is why there will be a campaign against each and every one of us. Nebojsa Stefanovic is neither the first nor the last. It will be fought against any of us who is able and who opposes the possible re-emergence of those who have held such shameful conversations as to testify to the pompousness of these people, who speak of themselves breaking up the common state. We have often resented that unfortunate Javier Solana, but what is there to be surprised about Javier Solana when you read these conversations. What do I expect from the Secretary-General of the NATO Pact, when my foreign minister says - Serbia is guilty of NATO aggression because it has carried out terror in Kosovo. What should I blame Javier Solana for when Vuk Jeremic says in these talks -- we fucked Serbia-Montenegro's mother, you Serbia, I Montenegro. What should I blame him for? There's nothing to blame him for. But that's why the prosecution has to review these talks in detail, and all other talks, because these are not the only talks, you have as many conversations as you want, so let them examine all these talks and finally see who is behind the tragedy of the Serbian people at the beginning of the 21st century and who is in fact the main destroyer of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. And I said yesterday, there are such conversations, imagine what kind of talks were held when it came to October 5th, taking over the government, when it was a robbery privatisation, what kind of talks were conducted when judicial reform was conducted, what talks were conducted when the Serbian Army was destroyed, when we didn't have any proper planes, when Sutanovac translated tanks into the Smederjevo Irons because he said they weren't deadly means but targets, and when he told us that we didn't really have an enemy anymore, and that it was only a matter of days when we were going to enter the NATO Pact. So all these conversations exist. The prosecution can come up with these conversations and can't stay silent about what these people were talking about. This is a crime against your own people and against your own state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57473	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57474	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary, today we have before us a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor and a motion for a decision to elect judges who are first elected to serve as judges. There are their biographies, for judges 34 candidates, 37 for public prosecutors, everything is transparent, and I would not talk about it, but I would talk about something that is not transparent, which has caused a great controversy these days, and that is, quote, "Embargo" web portal - How did Miodrag Majic get to the place of the Court of Appeal? He was building a fast career in the First Court, especially after the Petoctobar Revolution, because he quickly forgot about earlier mentors. Who is this man? Officially, Dr. Miodrag Majic is the judge of the Court of Appeals, judge blogger, TV star, critic of the government, government, president, judicial gladiator who in the study of the American N1 cuts who on the stand, accuses his colleagues, misbehaves the prosecution, just as if he were talking to the Western embassies. By political definition, pure hermaphrodite, all of it, and always at your service. They say - he was elected Judge of the First Municipal Court by skipping hundreds of interns then and sitting in a judge's chair without a single day's internship in that court. He was told that he loved guitar, played, sang and traveled, mostly at the expense of others. It seems that these journeys at the very beginning also made sense and needed for his later career. He was building a fast career in the First Court, especially after the Petoctobar Revolution, because he quickly forgot about his previous mentors, so he quickly became a democratic judge, committed to the influence of the outside, especially in the area of the judiciary -- a well-informed source of justice for the "Embargo". So he quickly became an investigative judge, President of the Council, a spokesman, until he settled in the chair of the First Court in 2005. It is said that at that time, a second emergency of one lawyer, a former judge from the Palace of Justice, a political camel with a handkerchief in his jacket pocket, became the president of the First Municipal Court. Namely, the lawyer asked a personal friend, then Minister Zoran Stojkovic, to appoint him, or to replace Batic's man. The source in Belgrade's Justice Palace is still a topic, because of the Makijaveli's -- that the goal justifies the means. It has been said, however, that he earned the chair of the president of the court by ratting out then-president of the court, Vojkan Simic, to direct the cases to judges in his own bag. You're a disgrace. Let's move on. The judge Majic is judging Serbia on US N1 television and liberating criminals from Gjilan. "The chaps scouted Judge Majic, his book "In the name of the people" called - in the name of America," said the "Embargo", and I quote. Judge Miodrag Majic is not welcome in Sabac, just as fellow citizens hate and its hosts, city government. The chaplains do not want a judge who judges the state of Serbia on U.S. television N1 and releases criminals from Gjilan, who spends more time on his blog than in the courtroom. So, guys, is that normal? They don't know what Judge Majic is doing at the US Embassy, but they understand where the winds are blowing and what his NGO is dealing with, CEPRIS. Because of all this, they resented, not believing in his sincere intentions and what he wrote in his books that he promoted in front of a small number of fellow citizens. In the year 2019, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2019/35, on behalf of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, of the one part, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand. On June 11th, this judge, Miodrag Majic, accidentally selected Shabac, that free zone of hohstaplea and flyers, Zelenović and Petrovic, to promote his two books: "In the name of the people" and "Children of Evil". Does the newer Serbian judicial history remember such a case that the active judge of the Court of Appeals promote even two books? As far as I know, judges write real books, but they write when they retire. So this is inadmissible. To avoid confusion, everyone has the right to criticise and everyone in Serbia is subject to criticism, but to spit in the well from which you drink water, it is not possible anywhere, not even in the country of Serbia, and as we can see, it is possible. We are familiar with examples of retired judges writing some stories from their court practice. This one writes during the term of office. He's gone too far. What about him, we'll see. Although the choice of guests at Majic's promotion is all saying that this is from the promotion of books, more than court practice and voluntary rule. This is pure politics and pure politics. Or perhaps Judge Majic is preparing for a new opposition leader, such as predecessors, without popular support or with outside support? A few more sentences about this interesting man, in a very negative way. Tajic's law – leaving without hope is considered an inhuman punishment, this one said. Court of Appeals Judge Miodrag Majic objected to the adoption of Tijana's law that provides for the imposition of a life sentence for some of the most serious crimes without the possibility of parole, as he believes such provisions are a violation of international conventions and European standards, as well as the Serbian Constitution. The man didn't even read the law, so he wasn't sent to the judge. He argued as a dispute that there was no public debate in the case of the law. He's lying, it was. It was a public debate. The waist didn't come out. It was a statement of profession. The man is simply not directed, he's not interested. Especially problematic sees that there is no possibility of parole. According to international standards, Majic, the inability to parole leaves hope and perspective, is considered an inhuman punishment. Not to convince you, it was Tijana's law a month ago, an absolute lie. A man is simply not directed. As he warned, it is a violation of international obligations, but also of Serbia's highest legal act. Notorious lie. According to Majic, stricter criminal policy in these cases does not solve the problem, but makes it more complex. A man or not from a profession, like he didn't, or read the law isn't. Looks like both. I hope this is the end of the judge's election. Today we choose judges and prosecutors in a transparent and democratic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57475	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57476	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see Judge Majic has become a fan of the MPs. Let me remind you that a long time ago I submitted a request for the establishment of a polling committee to examine the question of circumstances under which KIM independence, including Montenegro, took place, so I called it in my speeches and called it high treason. I hope that after these published talks, I will get that majority to form a survey board. A stable state is the state where all people are equal before the law. Do we have that country? The judiciary is independent. She's certainly independent of this government, but I'm afraid she's not. That's even the behavior of the highest judicial officer shows that I'm right. Vuk Jeremic, a known descendant of the Wolf, has done several times, along with Tadic, several crimes, several times more crimes of endangering constitutional order and security. To remind you that Serbia-Montenegro had the Constitutional Charter, that it had its territory, that it had its borders, that Vuk Jeremic actively helped separate Montenegro from Serbia. That's more than clear now. I guess the D.A. knows what they're gonna do when that kind of information comes out in public, that one of the most serious crimes has been committed. That's what they used to call acts against the people and the state. Vuk Jeremic had previously visited, as adviser to Boris Tadic, the US and NATO generals at a conference they called "Western Security", along with applause, saying they retired hundreds of officers, he and Boris Tadic, with a war past. It boasted with a strong applause and these evidence exist, NATO officers and NATO generals. After all, the wolf Jeremic participated in the independence of Montenegro, but also in the construction of the wild state of KIM. He, along with Borko Stefanovic, Tadic, asked Jennifer Bras to extend the independence of KIM until after the election of Boris Tadic, i.e. that the Americans influence Kosovo Albanians to move independence, declare independence after the election of Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic took the oath on 14 February 2008, and on 17 February, Albanians declared independence. In a promise to the Americans, what -- I'll give the country to the chair, they say they'll know they appreciate the red line of the United States, which happened. Vuk Jeremic explains why he will file for the International Court of Justice's opinion and tells Condoleezi Rice in September 2008 that it is a smart move by the Serbian government to overcome the Kosovo issue and seek Euro-Atlantic integration, which means entering the NATO Pact. That's the Wolf of Jeremic, whom I call the Wolf a descendant, and that's proof of why he should be tried for so-called. works against the people and the state, against the constitutional arrangement, according to me, for high treason. I don't know why the prosecution is waiting for something. As for Gilas for a second, I agree that he and Sullaku are being tried for cheap seconds on RTS, something cheaper, where, as far as we can see, the fat profit. The prosecution must also launch an investigation against Gilas and Šolak over fake cross-border channels controlled by the SBB, or "United Group" and "United Media", interlinked companies. Today you have 20 fake cross-border televisions that the program produces, broadcast in Serbia, and are only fictitiously registered in Luxembourg. Every evening 10,000 seconds of advertising, contrary to the Law on Advertising, contrary to the Media Act, contrary to the law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on Cross-border Television, is broadcast on sports clubs, N1 television and Nova S. These are unregistered televisions in Serbia. I'm getting answers from REM, which isn't built to the end, or who's missing three members, so I hope that when these members are completed, the situation will be different. I get answers that this programme of New S and N1 television is being re-transmissioned from Luxembourg, which means, under these laws, it is allowed, but it must be re-produced by the programme that is being broadcast in Luxembourg. I also received answers from the Luxembourg regulator that such a programme is not being broadcast in Luxembourg. In order for him to re-air, he has to be broadcast there. Ten thousand seconds every night. If you just take a second to be worth 20 euros, not 100, you multiply it, and you get every night 200 thousand euros from Solak and Gilas only put it in your pocket. And another thing, these fake cross-border televisions, which are not registered here and cannot be sued, complain about media conditions in Serbia, although they are registered in Luxembourg and write to the European Commission that the media services provided in Serbia are that the government is conducting some censorship etc. How do the Luxembourg media complain about Serbia's media scene? Will someone from the Prosecutor's Office explain and prove to me that Olja Bećković, Ivan Ivanovic, and Cosic, their water emissions from Luxembourg? I've been to New Belgrade twice in their study and I didn't know that Novi Belgrade is in Luxembourg, the programme is not re-emissioned from Luxembourg, it is produced, broadcast along with commercials here. These TVs from SBB subscribers pump out money and show a false loss in SBB, so as not to pay profit tax because domestic channels do not pay the cable operator anything, although domestically pay REM fees, RATL, SOKOJ, etc. They don't get anything, but that's why Solak and Gilas are pumping up money from subscriptions with their cross-border TV, paying for it, allegedly, re-emissioning, and a few euros per user, which means if they have 900,000 users, some of these TVs get several million euros of fake cross-border television. It's time for the D.A. to start doing his job, protecting the innocent, and punishing the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57477	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57478	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic, for giving me your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are at the end of the principle debate on proposals for the election of deputy public prosecutors and for the election of judges who were first elected to the judge's office. We were therefore witnessing the haughtiness of the government until 2012 and the unscrupulous influence of the judiciary. Besides, of course, in other areas they did not brilliant. On the contrary, until 2012, affairs, embezzlement, malfeasance, trade in political influence are linked. Practically, all the bad things that have reversed Serbia and disrupted the world's reputation. Today we see that the situation hasn't changed much, when we talk about the DS, what kind of political party is it that decides on its bodies to boycott parliament? What kind of parliamentary party is this? And that's not the end of it. It, the so-called DS, which seems to have democracy only in its name, casts members out of the party because they have not boycotted the parliamentary life for which they were otherwise elected by citizens. The party pleads, the party announces whether they are MPs or did not boycott parliament. It is particularly interesting to hear from Zorna Lutovac, to see who is now running the DS and what kind of people expect to come to power, and to discuss the participation of Aleksandra Jerkov and Sanda Raskovic Ivić at the meeting of the Women's Parliamentary Network. I quote: "Their participation is not considered to be an end to the boycott, on the contrary, to be considered a possibility that on this body, the international community, a key reason why we boycott parliament, why citizens are on the streets and what are our key requirements to normalise society and bring parliament back to what it should be." If it wasn't sad, this kind of statement would probably be funny, the man who runs the DS right now. Someone who is the president of a parliamentary party should know what the activities of the MPs are, which means participation in the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network, as an informal body, and whether and how it is possible to use parliament for those purposes that it speaks of. But they're probably used to abuses, so that's the attitude they have to parliament. On the one hand, Lutovac shows great ignorance, on the other hand, shows that it does not prevent him from potentially misusing parliament in order to benefit his political party. So, the password under which they acted both in 2008 and 2009, when they elected judges "only bahato" is still valid today, and it is likely to be valid, or it would probably also be true if they, by chance, came to power. We have another signator of this false agreement with the people, not the Lutovac is the only example of ignorance, there is actor Sergei Trifunovic, who, however, says he does not know how to answer the very simple questions he has been asked. He doesn't actually seem to know what he wants, except coffee and sweeter, in the middle of the show. About the election process, nothing, about the demands of citizens who are represented as the great leader of the revolution, and nothing, because he himself says he doesn't know. Imagine if such ignorants came to power what would happen to our country? What would Sergei answer to the question Serbia deserves? We have another example. As Vuk Jeremic imagines democracy, we also had opportunities to hear. He would ban the work of SNS and other political parties. How do you think courts would function if such people came to power? It might be even worse than in 2008 and 2009. They'd ruin Serbia and everything we'd done, just disappear at one point. For this very reason, I remind myself of the situation that was in the judiciary until 2012 and sometimes I comment on and daily political statements, and that is true, because citizens must be aware and aware of what would happen to our country, with a situation in the judiciary if such people came to power. Serbia needs judges and prosecutors who are professional, who are independent in their work, those who judge on behalf of the people, not on behalf of the DS, or any other political party in Serbia. Serbian citizens need a stable and efficient justice system in which they will trust. All holders of judicial functions must bear in mind that they judge by knowledge and law, and the memory of the 2009 judicial reform will not fade and let it constantly remind us of what we must never allow to repeat in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57479	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. I'm concluding a joint single search. I would like to thank the representatives of DVT and VSS for their participation in the debate. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, allow, honourable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We move to the next, third, single search, otherwise item 8 of the agenda - Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. You have received a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public funds. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 199(2) and (3) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single inquiry into the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Does the proposing representative, the MP, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57480	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, before I make a concrete proposal to the Committee on Finance on the candidate for the vote, or a statement to the Assembly of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, I would like to remind myself of the legal basis which has given us the opportunity, not only as a Assembly, but as a Committee, to make our proposals and to decide on this. When we talk about the Republic Commission, I must point out that according to the Law on Public Procurement, it is in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament, or the committee responsible, so that this electoral part that we are responsible for electing members of this committee, to discuss their work, their financial plan, the report and the functioning of the Commission at all, is indeed in the power of the MPs. That's what's important to say today. It is in fact a second-degree body that participates in the procurement process, where the right to protect the participants themselves in the procurement process has, i.e. the right to decide, the MPs themselves through this control role, where we adopt their work reports. On the basis of Article 140(2), the Committee on Budgets, Finance and the Control of the Expension of Public Assets was established by the Law on Public Procurement, on the basis of Article 140(2), that the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures were elected and resolved by the National Assembly and Article 141(3) of that Law. It simply prescribed that the selection procedure was carried out on the basis of a specific legal basis, and that basis, given that he was a previous member, and I will say that this commission has nine members in three bags, means three members, and since they do not stand out in the same order for all members of the mandate, when it expires once, then it simply sets out public competition and that public competition takes place for 30 days and on the basis of a public competition held in fact we have, a proposal for a specific member and the Commission to elect the National Assembly, and it begins that term. So we don't actually have at the same time selecting all the members here, for the simple reason that we should legally ensure that this institution and the objects function at all, ultimately, that they are coming and that they can make certain decisions at all. On 27 March 2019, a decision was taken at the 69th session of the Committee on Budgets and Finance to initiate the procedure itself to set out a proposal for candidates for the selection of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. So, on April 2nd, the ad was published in the daily list “Politicals, ” and the 3rd was in “The Official Messenger. ” The conditions of the competition, in addition to the 30-day deadline, are very high. Why are we talking about this? Because very high standards are set when selecting these members of the commission. The competition shows essentially that this topic can be dealt with exclusively by people who really know this topic, but still, they have to have a law school, a judicial exam and they have to do at least three years of public procurement work. So basically this job can really be done by people of the profession. What was adopted as a specific proposal is that the Committee had to adopt the work group's proposals as well. The working group, otherwise for the implementation of the procedure for selecting members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, was otherwise formed even in the previous term of office in 2016 and in this term when two members of this Commission were elected at the time. And they were then formed on the basis of representatives of the parliamentary groups within the committee itself, so that she is a five-member, composed of: Mr. Veroljub Arsic, working group president Goran Kovacevic, Prof. Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, Mr. Milan Lapčević and Mr. Goran Ćirić. Their task is otherwise that when a competition is called, first of all, they review the documentation. This documentation based on the conditions of the competition should establish that it is valid for candidates to enter into the interview at all, i.e. prior to the passing of the written part of the test, which was introduced four years ago, which in fact showed that people who do this job really should possess the highest qualifications and that test is, of course, not using literature. Once, five years ago, when that test was first introduced, it was an opportunity to use literature. But in the meantime, that possibility was abolished, and then it was essentially seen how much who knows, when you set up this kind of test and then you determine, in fact, the principles on which the choice of candidates should be made. The Working Group, of course, proposed in this composition these principles adopted on 13 May by the Financial Committee and decided on 3 June to carry out the test. Testing is done by having 42 questions offered by the Finance Committee and by Circular principle we get a combination of certain numbers by all board members, we get a practically win-win combination of questions that immediately thereafter relate to the Working Group and performs a test of candidates who have applied. What is important to say is that on June 13th at the 78th session of the Committee, he also held a conversation with all the candidates who were testing and established this proposal for a decision that we have on the agenda today. When we talk about candidates, it should be said that in addition to having certain obligations prescribed by law to run in these places that have been adopted, they are otherwise their functions, or their work so far as they have done, are just about public procurement. So we had three candidates: Vladimir Stanic, who had a working experience in the field of public procurement for five years and 10 months, Mersihu Markovic, who has a working experience of eight years and one month and Dragan Stankovic, who has 10 years and three months of experience. By speaking of Mr Stanic, he is in the position of an independent advisor in the Department of Professional Affairs of the Republic Commission itself for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Mrs. Mersiha Markovic at the Clinical Centre as head of the Department of Public Procurement and Mrs. Dragana Stankovic is in DRI as senior consultant in the review, with what she once worked in the Commission itself. I can tell you that according to the number of points and testing, and here, there is Mr. Arsic, a colleague who is the president of the Working Group, in whose presence and presence a total of four members of the Working Group, when they passed, all have crossed the practical threshold of knowledge given to them as some limit, 80% of the 42 questions had to be answered correctly. It has been shown that this way of selecting the candidates themselves has completely raised one scale when it comes to knowledge from this area. I can tell you that all three candidates are good candidates. I am responsible for this because we made the choice in 2016 and we also had two candidates, in which certain candidates did not pass these limits and, of course, two candidates were elected then who had the highest number of points. But now, the principle was also the largest number of points, and the interview itself showed shades precisely in that knowledge and conversation, that the candidate with the highest number of points showed not only knowledge, but also a broad picture of how this job should be done and what it may be that needs to be improved in this area. Before I go to the proposals myself, I want to say that the candidates from 42 total points received: Vladimir Stanic 39 points, Mersiha Markovic 42 and Dragana Stankovic 40 points. What proved to be the largest number of points received by Mrs. Mersih Markovic, we had opportunities at the interview, above all, to see that the biography she submitted shows that, in addition to the completed law school, the certificate for public procurement officers, the judicial exam, she also had master's work that almost defended her with a score of ten, relating to corruption in public procurement. What we had a chance to see is that at the place authorized for public procurement, the head of the clinic center department, it showed essentially that she had previously been the assistant director for this particular area. In view of the fact that if you remember that the State Auditing Institution has proposed that all assistant posts, not only for clinical centres, but for all healthcare institutions, and for many others in many other areas, the institution simply had to find a certain way to arrange a job like this. What has proved to be an experience in this area, is that it has had the opportunity for us and the Committee to say that certain areas have specific relationships when it comes to making decisions on public procurement and that sometimes it is necessary to really accept the opinion in the field of health, that many medical equipment that should be taken as soon as possible because of the urgency of their work, when it comes to medical institutions, such as some material for dialysis, such as materials, when it comes to appliances themselves, which, for example, medical institutions count on saving people's lives as soon as possible, should have a specific status when making those decisions. The experience of Mrs Mersihe Markovic herself in this has shown that she, both outside and inside the Commission, is aware of all the facts that need to speed up the work of the Commission itself. What we had the opportunity to ask and hear, in addition to a large number of cases that the Commission itself has, and a small number of decision-makers, whether this is a crucial factor in decision-making to speed up work, and it has been shown that in the past three years, the Commission itself report has reduced the number of days for decision-making. It means that greater efficiency and effectiveness of the work of this Commission have been achieved. What we have had the opportunity to hear is that it hopes that since 1 January, with the ban on employment, to increase the number of employees, but also that it should work to speed up the selection of the professional staff themselves when it comes to the work of this Commission and to reduce these deadlines for the adoption of certain documents, because it is a second-degree body that is really needed to make decisions, if certain aspects of complaints occur in public procurement procedures for the agreed contracts of different budget users, in particular, and what is certainly better efficiency in the work of the Commission is transparency. It means increasing public participation in who makes decisions, in what way, but also in the criminal policy that needs to be tightened, because sometimes certain institutions are willing to pay and fines when it comes to making certain decisions, or that what concerns large public procurement, as we say, is divided into several smaller ones and leads to the avoidance of the complaints themselves, and precisely because of doing the job more effectively. Today you have many institutions that have been released from this public procurement process for large amounts, and precisely because they could make decisions, such as schools, hospitals, work more efficiently. In the end, what's very important to say, the insistence of our candidate who we're talking about today is that we really need to raise a higher level of public and talk in society, when it comes to public procurement and about the part that concerns corruption itself, because people are aware that public procurement is very interesting to that level of corruption, so for example. you have some agreed economy when the bidders themselves agree and file complaints, and precisely to prevent the one who has really come out in the best possible way with certain offers and the cheapest offers, to prevent him from getting that kind of contract. As a result, it is very important that many irregularities in the procedures are lit up in the public and what is good to say is that there are also proposals for making changes and additions, i.e. the new Public Procurement Act, which would reduce all the problems that have arisen in the processes themselves, public procurement procedures, that it is necessary to put them more and more into the legal frameworks and, in fact, reduce these many deadlines, make it easier for all budget users to do this work. When we speak specifically about the candidate, what we had the opportunity to see, she fulfilled all the conditions of the competition, with this presentation in the interview itself, she gave a broader picture of how it was to implement the current law, that she said that a good legislative framework, that many of the things she spoke about, which the Committee members asked questions about, showed that she could handle at all this topic and that her thinking showed that the experience she had at the Clinical Centre could very much contribute to this Commission's work much more effectively, and thus to the Members of Parliament itself gave us a lot of material, and when we talk about this legal framework at all, in the future we will be able to propose certain changes and additions to help, in the end, the Commission itself, which is responsible for the work of the Assembly, to work better and more effectively. What we had the opportunity to see based on the statistics and results of this Commission itself is that in the last year 1,094 decisions were made at the level of this Commission, that according to statistics, if you compare 2016, 2017 and 2018, you can see that the reduced time for deciding, that the number of cases brought by the resolved cases also increased, which we have on the Commission's own conclusions, completely decreased. It is precisely what the Committee has done, which is that on the basis of interviews and written tests, it has established that it is the candidate with the highest number of points, that in an interview that showed the widest picture in this Commission's work, it has gained confidence to propose it today to be that candidate and to discuss that it is good to have this kind of work of the Committee itself when it comes to a particular competition, to raise the scale and that many institutions, perhaps not only in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, should accept such examples of choice and proposing candidates, because it has proved that you can't come to certain positions unprepared and you can't come unless you're trained in such a job. The proposal is for Mrs Mersih Markovic to be a member of the Commission for the Protection of the right of tenderers in public procurement procedures and, as such a proposal, we believe it should be supported, regardless of which representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57481	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57482	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the topic of public procurement and the area covered by the Public Procurement Act is very interesting, especially in the period when intensive efforts are being made, as at least declaratively promotes power to prevent corruption, to prevent crime. We are aware that this cannot be completely destroyed, prevented, but can be reduced to some, conditionally speaking, tolerable level. Where there is a insistence, the authority's momentum to prevent public procurement, which is that the dispute that always arises between those who seek tendering and who need certain services or items and who offers these services, or who delivers the requested goods. These disputes have been tried to resolve the Law on Public Procurement, not to be resolved, but to be reduced to normal relations. In fact, just a few years ago, when the SNS announced coming to power, one of the impact points of its programme was the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, arguing that this new law that they are proposing would not only prevent crime, malversion, labour irregularities, but that Serbia as a state and we as a society would benefit greatly, by making savings from some, as I recall, not exactly holding my word, 800 million eva. This was also welcomed and accepted and there was no such thing in Serbia that did not hope that this pre-election promise would be realised through the government's implementation process. However, we are witnessing that after coming to power of the SNS and its coalition partners, it did not quite work out as promised and that it was claimed that it would be through the adoption of the Public Procurement Act. It turns out that the law, amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, has certain shortcomings. To warn, to appeal that these shortcomings should be temporarily removed, there was no timely response for the simple reason why this cannot be interpreted with some rational behaviour, that is more, as the people would say out of stubbornness. There is also the other side where there is and how justified doubts that there are interests that in such a precise undefined law someone sees his own personal benefit, and ultimately the benefits of more individuals. What's very interesting about all this is that the SRS has been insisting from the very beginning to regulate these areas, such as the area of public procurement, given that huge funds at the state level are being used, or spent when it comes to public procurement. By entering parliament and participating in the Committee on Finance, we had the desire to contribute to our work on the regularity of work, not only of the Committee, but of this committee dealing with the control, i.e. the regularity of the implementation of the public procurement process. In order to make it clear to the public what this is all about, it's completely simplified by asking questions about the tender, public demand, certain bidders report, offering their services, offering their goods. The conditions to be met are clearly defined by tender documentation. When's the problem? There's a problem, first because there's an irregularity when it comes to selecting bidders. The bidder has the right to complain in such a situation, complains to the commission that has called and conducted the tender. However, as it is in real life, the commission sometimes deafens itself, or does not take into account all the facts mentioned in the complaint, and then the bidder has a second-degree body, which is precisely this public procurement commission proposed by the parent board of finance, which is being declared by the National Assembly. There is another situation, when simply one who calls the tender, so that it would not be in accordance with the law, about large claims or major purchases at the level in a year, it breaks it down to so-called. Small acquisitions, and there is the possibility that he does not have to comply with all the rules of competition, which is that he has more bidders, can directly with the bidder in certain situations. And the third situation, when the investor is from abroad, when the funds are from abroad, then the investor has the right to directly choose the bidder, avoid all these procedures. It's three situations that are kind of rough looking, defined by this law. In order to ensure the full regularity of all of this, parliament, through the Finance Committee, forms a commission to monitor the regularity of the tender, i.e. public procurement, and the commission has eight members and the chairman of the commission. The rules by which members of the commission are elected, as the colleague said earlier, are clearly defined by law and regulation by delivering to the members of the Finance Committee a table containing a hundred regular numbers in which the members of the commission should round up certain numbers according to their opinion, listen well to me, that is correct. So the numbers that should mark the regular number of questions that will be asked to those who apply for membership in these committees, or to be elected. When these numbers are determined, then these questions are formed. These issues are formed by members of the Committee on Finance and on the basis of such complex issues, the candidates shall carry out the tests in the area of the Public Procurement Act. In doing so, these conditions are clearly defined who can be a member of this committee. It is that it has a certain professional arrangement, that it has a particular specialty, or that it has a judicial examination. The second category, when it comes to lawyers, but when it comes to economists and technical and technological persons, those, unlike the first group of lawyers who have to have three years of working experience on these public procurement jobs, should have five years of working experience on public procurement jobs. This is clearly defined and those with such qualifications are subject to these tests, which are drawn up by members of the Finance Committee, by rounding up a number on that table, a number of questions, and the role of the Committee members ends here. He's still in the commission's jurisdiction. When these tests are examined, when they are pricked, there are a total number of points per individual candidate and we have now, we have to say, for the sake of truth, for the first time in a long time, that the candidate who scored the highest number of points, and the maximum number is 42 points, has been chosen, or proposed to be elected as a member of this commission. Why am I stressing for the first time in a long time? Because not so long ago, we had a very strange situation that those who passed the tests and who had a number of points were not selected and were not proposed by the Finance Committee to be elected as members of the commission. How? It's very simple. Because after the tests have been passed, these candidates with a name and last name, with all that data on the number of points won, are put individually before the members of the Committee and the members of the Committee shall be declared by voting which candidate meets the conditions, which will be proposed as a candidate for this commission. It's kind of weird, it's almost farsical, but what you're going to do is, it's rules that apply day and day. That is why it is very, very positive and significant that for the first time something called the number of points and the vote and the statement of members of the board is agreed. We Serbian radicals do not participate in this procedure, for a simple reason, because we consider it to be a farce in some way. Why the farce? Well, if there is a score of candidates and checks on their knowledge in the area of the Public Procurement Act, then why should the members of the board be subsequently pleaded, to decide by their votes to be nominated, or which candidate will be proposed as a member of the commission. Here's why I'm telling you this. My colleague said the names of the composition of this committee. Among other things, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Mr Arsic are in the five-member commission. I'm apostrophe of these two, very interestingly, they represent some continuity. In 2013, these two were already members of the same commission, they surveyed 13 candidates, or applied for a member's seat on the commission, based on the tests conducted. And look, based on the points won, that was when the maximum number of points was 32, 13 candidates met the conditions. The president then scored 32 points, his name is Sasha Varinac, 2013. I'm telling you because of some of the illogicalities that have been so far, we hope this will be the end of these illogicalities. Borislav Galić has 30 points won, Vesna Stankovic 30, Hana Hukić 30, Vesna Gojković 30, Ljubinka Raseta 30, Željko Grašeta 28, not to list further these candidates, just for a picturesque display. When he came to vote on the Finance Committee, do you know who passed? Borislav Galic did not pass, which is the logic of things, there are 30 points, a graduate lawyer, has passed justice, has been engaged in public procurement, but has passed by Željko Grašeta, 28 points won. Why are we saying this, we Serbian radicals? This is not just an injustice to an individual, this may be an opportunity to create some preconditions for irregularity when it comes to the appeal procedure of public procurement. If you on the board, by the number of votes, conditionally speaking, win, the number of points and the knowledge of a man, then the question is who is that candidate with fewer points, with less knowledge, at that moment is shown, who is this candidate, under which he is voted by most of the votes. I can also tell you how much someone received individual votes, mostly Borislav Galic who showed his knowledge received no single vote on the board. There's something that could possibly reach into some further continuity, which is, sometimes, a graduate engineer, a graduate economist, a graduate lawyer, has to work in an economy or any other company to lay down. a trainee's exam. Imagine what kind of paradoxes are, what kind of nonsensities have been going on. For example, a graduate lawyer passed a trainee's exam before a commission made up of then-KV and VK workers, even somewhere were maids. A man who's been educated in college, who has a degree in college, has to be given a degree in law school to put in front of a maid. Of course, not underestimating the interest of it, every interest is for respect, and every individual who honors his job is also for respect and respect. We in the congregation now have some relapse of such a situation. Let's just say, in all respects of colleagues who don't have, with a set of circumstances, life or some other, historical, don't have college education, they're looking at a master of legal science, a master of economics or a graduate engineer. Isn't it a little excessive? Still, we must take care of and respect those personalities and their efforts and their knowledge. At the very least, it is that through these points that are obtained after the test, the board members are declared on the basis of the points, and that would be least suspicious. If we continue like this, and we hope that this will not be an exception, this Mrs Markovic's proposal, then literally any candidacy or any determination of members who should control public procurement will be at least under suspicion. Is that what we need in the Serbian Parliament? Is that supposed to infuse the safety of those who are bidders, those who complain in most cases? This was not the intention of us Serbian radicals to reduce the importance and role of each individual who we assume has taken full advantage of his knowledge and opportunities, to contribute to the objective work of this committee, or the objective work of the commission, but to open one suspicion, at the end of the day and one reserve in the coming period that this will all take place, bearing in mind and stressing that the members of this commission are elected for a period of five years. It is a period that is much longer than the assembly of this Parliament and that is something to be taken care of. We believe that what I read as an example from the earlier period will be an exception, that the future will be taken into account, and I don't know what this mysticism is, that it mystifies these tests and questions from these tests, with an explanation -- so that the candidates don't know in advance. Imagine the absurdity we've come to. People who are masters of legal science, who have passed justice, who can work in any court, who work, are professionally doing their job in the field of public procurement, are immediately under some sort of suspicion that they could come in a magical way to the issue. Is that serious? It's not for us Serbian radicals. The questions should also be known to the board members and anyone who is interested in this, and the conscience is also on the personal responsibility of those who further distribute these issues whether these issues will be delivered to an individual, although those individuals who compete and do not need to know these issues, since they obviously know the area of public procurement well. Let's say, if that rule were respected, today we assume that he would be a member of the commission, among other things, and Borislav Galic. We know why he didn't get most of the votes. There's no reason for me to tell you. It's the former head of BIA's cabinet. It was the reason why he was not chosen, not because he showed less or more knowledge, but because it was this political, conditionality. I don't even know a man, nor know which political party he belongs to, but I found him as an example, he's actually a personification of all those who are damaged in this way or possibly those who can be damaged in the future and that Serbian radicals wouldn't want me to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57483	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a very interesting discussion of my esteemed colleague Mircic, only at no time has he told me where this Law on Public Procurement is wrong, which these provisions of the Public Procurement Act are not good and to tell me these financial institutions that disputed the validity of the Public Procurement Act, which are their references and whether we have to listen to them. As far as I know, professional associations, international and European have said that Serbia has one of the best public procurement laws in the world, and certainly the first in the region. It is true that it is the law of the child of the SNS, proposed by the MPs in October 2012 or November 2012 and entered into force on 1 April 2013. Now, about asking questions about how the commission works, whether it should be questioned or not, whether we trust someone in advance on their expertise and their biography, it won't be possible. So if he wants to work at the Commission for the Protection of Rights, he must know the law in his fingers by encouraging public procurement. The criteria in the first commission's election were, I say, reduced because the law was passed, not yet applied, so the criteria were then reduced, because through the application of the law many would have studied the law in a later period. When we touch the issues of a colleague, or one of the candidates, Borislav Galic, it has nothing to do with what he did in the state security services. That's not a problem for me. The problem is second, which led the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and that the cases in the commission stood for two or three years. What were not committee meetings when it was decided by appeal, which the members of the commission were not familiar with the material, which the members of the commission were not familiar with and the opinion of the rapporteur's board that there was no record, which was neither tonic nor any recording of the commission's work. That's why he wasn't elected a member of the commission. He did not meet professional conditions, boycotted, and such a bad Public Procurement Act, which was valid until 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57485	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57486	It's hard in two minutes to explain something to you, but here, I'll try. Well, my colleague Tomic herself told you what's wrong. There are opportunities for bidders to make a deal and, under that agreement, challenge any other lack of law. Secondly, when it comes to the level of public procurement at the annual level you have small, medium and large purchases, you have centralized purchases, all of these are spaces and possibilities for manipulation, because the law is not laid down. Because the law allows an individual to break a responsible person to the so-called. small purchases, and small purchases mean he can contact the bidder directly. Yes, that he doesn't have to have three, he doesn't have to meet those conditions. I know you're emotionally bound. You have participated in the adoption of this law and you have seen it as a personal failure if someone says they have problems and that they have in the application of this law, or abuse of this law, more specifically. It's nothing personal here. As far as Borislav Galic is concerned, you did not tell the truth that it was all against him. How could he participate in anything called commission competition in 2013. But when he competed, he made 30 points, explain to me, you're together with Mijatovic, there he is, that you are, based on what parameters you've concluded that the one named Grašeta with 28 points is better than Ljubinka Rushet with 30 points. Here, Ljubin Rachet, did she do something wrong? Did Dragan Lalovac do something wrong, he's got the same 28 points? But look what's interesting, Zeljko Grasetta, when you two were, he gets seven votes from the board members, and none of them are. How's that? What's the criterion for you?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57487	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57488	First, again, we go by illogical means. There are no public procurements of small, medium and high value, but small values, public procurement for which no process and public procurement of high value is conducted, where even the citizen's representative participates. So much for that. Public procurement, small values, does not mean that there is a negotiation process, but is only a slightly shorter procedure regarding the public procurement process itself. It is necessary for the public works to place this public purchase of small value on the portal of the Public Procurement Administration so that everyone can be informed and everyone participates in the procurement process. That's what I'm gonna talk about in my presentation. That's for sure. So, he can't even do it then, so there's the same process as any other public procurement. Forget the story, because the negotiation process that was until 2012 when we had 75% of the public procurement in the negotiation process. Seventy-five percent and now it's moving about three percent. That's a big difference, and there were abuses just in the public procurement procedures that were done, through the negotiation process, whether they were large, whether they were small, whether they were, as you say, medium. So today something can't, it doesn't exist, it doesn't work. As for the other candidates, we said that the commission that worked in the assembly by 2012 had failed to carry out the proceedings in accordance with complaints, orderers, or bidders in public procurement procedures at all. She has not conducted the procedure at all, and where she has conducted it has often been a material violation of the Public Procurement Act, to which the commission has merely turned its head on the other side. Don't defend those people who didn't deserve it. Why aren't they processed? What were they doing? That's not my problem, not the problem of the MPs. Anything else? The law states that members of the commission are proposed by the responsible Committee on Finance Affairs, does not propose a committee conducting testing and testing is not the only one who decides who will be proposed to the National Assembly. Testing only those who do not have a sufficient degree of knowledge is eliminated from the follow-up procedure. It's no more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57489	Thank you, colleague Arsic. A colleague of Mircic will be entitled to a replica, but before you a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic, since you mentioned him during your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Public procurement is very important and very important. The laws we must respect in public procurement are also very important. There's no law that can regulate everything, and there's no law that can bring life into the parameters, and it has to be fixed all the time, looking for a better and new one. What I can say is this, it's true, I was in 2013 on all the candidate testing committees. Publicly, responsible to the public of Serbia, everything has been done in accordance with all the principles of such a job. I've been a professor for many years, I've tested a lot of students, a lot of students, be assured that all the rules have been applied here, starting with the choice of questions, there's always a lot more than a hundred questions, and it's been chosen, or it's been taken at the last 42 questions. That means no one knows what questions will come up. Furthermore, when the candidates come to the test, they're in a position to do their own tests under the code and commission when the corrections don't know who they're correcting. So I rule out any possibility of giving someone points that aren't deserved. Testing candidates was very good to me for the simple reason when the law was passed we had a lot of ignorance. We were only at first giving the possibility to use the law, therefore, that candidates use the law next to themselves, had a shorter time. But over time, as the law applied, the candidates came ever better prepared and thus we got the first fact that one candidate won all the points. That's very good. The second thing I want to point out is that, besides testing candidates, we also have conversations, and conversations are such that the candidate is often inconclusive in specific issues that are even more often simpler than the questions on the test. Every member of the board has the right to vote for who he thinks. It is good to match the number of points and the impressions that the Committee members have. Then it's the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57491	Thank you, colleague Miatovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57492	I was just hoping that you would agree in part with this which, in some ways, is the conclusion of colleague Tomic, but you remain to have the influence of a member of the Finance Committee however decisive. A short while ago, counterpart Tomic, as chairman of the Committee, said it was first established, and we hope that it will be the rule of the number of points won by the candidate, that it will be a criterion and a criterion for the candidate. We're going back here to what an impression it is, next to these numbers of points. It's very complicated to set questions by regular numbers, rather than by Eurovision. The Eurovision song is some already recognizable template, these are reported to vote, and it doesn't matter what they vote on, depending on how it translates it into a real number of votes. Here, a farce consisting of rounding a regular number, and on the basis of that regular number of secret channels, questions from the Public Procurement Act will be identified, so that when these candidates who have a regular internship, behind whom work, behind whom knowledge stands, if, by any chance, they meet all the conditions, and especially the maximum number of points, are not sure to pass, should they leave who, artistic impression on you, as Milka Babovic, would say. What do they have to leave on you? What can you ask as members of the Commission? What? Ask them what? Which party do they belong to? Who were they voting for? What more will you ask? You're political figures there. Don't, people, let's do what's least necessary. This isn't about regularity when it comes to knowledge. We need people who have knowledge. Of course, checking for each individual can be carried out, but not by being a member of the Committee, so he asks unsuspecting questions, but because the competent services will if they need to check something out. And so for this Borislav Galic. The authorities need to check it out, the authorities need to control it, but, good. In 2013, how did you two miss Branislav Cvetanovic, who won 31 points as members of the Commission? How did you miss him? What, didn't make an impression on you?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57493	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and control of the spending of public funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57494	I can't get a word, Chairman, from this many replicas. Thank you. I don't know what happened to Mr Galic, but since July 2016, since the constitution of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of the spending of public funds in this composition, all the candidates and the elections made in the Commission's election, members of the Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures have been made on the basis of the decision and the maximum number of points and interviews. Why? Because it turned out that those candidates who received the maximum number of points on the test itself also made the best impression on the members of the Committee when they had the interview. One more thing I will tell you, on 14 November 2016, we then elected two members of the candidate of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Mrs Jelena Stojanović and Svetlana Razic. They had 40 and 39 points then. The current candidate, Mrs. Mersih Markovic, has a maximum of 42 points. That's when she took the test, and she didn't get 80%, as much as she needed as a lower limit. This means that it is indeed a village, because it is not only about the Law on Public Procurement to learn from cover to cover, but also about the Law on Liabilities and the Law on Administrative Procedure. So three laws are at stake. So what's shown over time, from 2016 to today, is that work, learning, profession, experience must end up with these results and that's what we can say with certainty today that simply, the maximum number of points and what the interview is, means the written and oral part of that test gives a total score. We have shown that this assessment coincides with the decision of the Committee itself. What's still to be said is that we're obliged to listen to all the candidates, regardless of what's gone even 80%. Why? Because every candidate has the right to appeal and initiate court proceedings unless an interview with the candidates has been conducted. That's why we don't eliminate them based on a written examination of all the candidates, but we have to listen to them. This is why this procedure, indeed, is conducted by law and we hope that such a procedure from 2016 will remain in the future as something that really gives good results and that we will not change. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, it is obvious that there are always certain entities who want to fertilise the law and find space somewhere to make certain decisions that they want you to in some way resist law enforcement that says that the smallest offer is received in the public procurement process. Believe me, those firms that are involved in the procurement process who are complaining that they would defuse those who are in public procurement procedures should get a lot of contracts. That is why there are many cases that this commission handles, but there are other laws that need to be introduced into the functioning of this process, let's say – complaints from the Competition Protection Commission, because it usually happens that these companies that are being negotiated are breaking competition rules, and thus lead to companies that need to get the job, in an extremely legal way with the least price, simply not being able to get those contracts and block the processes themselves because of that. So, many laws that are now in the process, which is also the new Law on Public Procurement and the new Law on the Protection of Competition, show that Serbia has achieved much on the market in terms of competition and economics and the market when it comes to public procurement procedures. It means that we have reached certain levels, not only by implementing some directives that we are bound by the EU, but by taking care of the market itself that many have learned how to behave when it comes to public procurement. As a result, today’s theme raises many questions that show that we have done very well when it comes to public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57495	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has Veroljub Arsic, the right to replicate the presentation of the People's MP Milorad Mircic. You'll get a line after that, and you'll get a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the election of members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is not a competition for Eurovision songs, as some want to present it here. So it's a much more serious job and attacking the procedures that have yielded results is either a lack of arguments or a desire to go back to what was before. It means that the commission works from case to case, that it doesn't have a single legal practice, that there are no busy views, that the cases are handled for two, three, four years. Is this a solution for the heads of Parliament's groups to propose members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures? Is that the solution for them to propose to the Committee, the Committee to propose to the National Assembly? I don't think so. Is this the best way? So far, the best we know. Are there any better? I'd like someone to propose, but the very procedure in the contest is that and gives good results as well as the Public Procurement Act itself. The very weight of the Commission's work on the protection of rights in public procurement procedures is seen in the fact that all, both contracting authorities and performers, are working against the application of the Public Procurement Act. Both of them are very well obstructing the public procurement process, trying to question both the quality of the law and the quality of the commission that decides on it, and how the commission decides, so testify that for all these years, how many commissions exist that have been initiated in dozens of cases before the administrative court and that the administrative court seems to have annulled two or three decisions by the Commission for the protection of the rights in public procurement procedures, which is another indicator that the Commission is doing well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57497	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57498	What's a major concern about the public work and committee and the proposal is that we should inform the public that there were three candidates here for this one seat on the committee. It was Vladimir Stanic, Mersiha Markovic and Dragana Stankovic. Here in the documentation, there's no number of points in this material they've won. Now we hear Mersih Markovic won 42. For the sake of the public, we also have to have MPs, as well as the public, to have insight. I also owe it to the SRS to say that Zeljko Grašet, who had fewer points than Galic and many, was elected again in 8.6.8 for a commission member. We don't have the number of points he won. We also have that it was elected 8.6.2018. Vesna Gojković Milin, Slavisa T. Milosevic, Vesna Stanković and Željko Grašeta. That's suspicious. Since 2013 there has been one name and last name that has been classified as members of the Commission in 2013 and now again in 2018. We now need to go, say, to Cleopatra, to serve individual colleagues with some methods, to have Cleopatra tell us that this Grasheta since 2013 is in continuity in 2018, so if God does, he will survive this conference, so he will be re-elected. We know that in 2013, he had fewer points. What an impression he made on fellow Mijatovic, I do not know, nor do I enter those relations, but the public must know by what criteria this name and last name appear again. Of course, we don't want to diminish anything when it comes to the knowledge and expertise of this colleague, but it's a little weird. You know, as soon as it's weird not only to the opposition, the public suspects it, and you're deeply right. There's always one side and the other that wants to avoid the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57499	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57500	I'll be brief with this replica. There doesn't need to be Cleopatra to know some answers. All you have to do is think logically and get an answer. Do you think a man who has already passed a test and worked in the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures needs again, when his mandate is extended, to pass that same test? He passed it once. When you pass for your driver's test, you don't pass every time you extend your license. You've learned, I suppose. Or, you've been working at one company and no one's gonna ask you to graduate from college again or you're going to graduate, but you're going to transfer that diploma and your acquired knowledge to another place. So it turns out every time someone chooses to be an intern. Only those who need to work for the first time in the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures shall be entitled. He can't take the same test for each choice again. It would insult people a little bit. It would humiliate them a little bit. Milorad Mircic: Will he live for life? I keep trying to draw attention to something. The fact that he is a member of the commission, the committee already has enough parameters without testing to propose to the Assembly to extend the mandate or not, which is probably his work on the same commission, how many cases he received, as well as the judge, how many cases he received. How many cases he has handled, what his decisions are, whether something has been annulled by the administrative court, all these parameters have a Finance Committee. So there are already criteria under which the Finance Committee decides whether a candidate who is already a member of the committee will propose to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57501	I thank my colleague Arsic. Comrade Mijatovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57502	Mr. Vice President, I don't think at all to oppose Mr. Mircic for a simple reason, and I think that your wish is like the opposition and us as our position to have the better and more quality work of the commission and to come to such criteria that those who know best work come here and who will do it. That's why we're doing this debate, and that's why we're talking right now. To convince you immediately, names mean nothing to me. I didn't remember any of those names you mentioned, nor did they give me any impressions, because I don't know people. That commission often changes. People leave because of the weight of the job, and that's why we often have these tests, so you can't remember all the names. They don't matter right now. We do it under code, so we don't even know who it is. I can only say the next thing, that right after these tests and after this work and after the great fluctuation that exists on that commission, people are leaving because of the weight of the job. We get candidates that are more and more quality. The number of points they win is much higher, and that principle is really good. Of course, those who work on the commission, there's also an evaluation of their work, the number of objects they've done, how they've done, etc. It's too complicated a procedure. Of course, the goal of all of us is to have a better quality of work and to really make public procurement as clean as possible, to make it the better, the better, the better, so that there is no possibility of influence. Is this the best way, as my colleague Tomic said, I'm not sure, but I really think this is a good way so far. If we think we need something different, better, let's propose amendments to the law, and I think we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57503	Thank you, colleague Mijatovic. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57504	First my colleague Arsic, then Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57505	No counterpart, Arsic, has been reported. When he's reported, he'll get a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57506	No, I'm replicating him first, then Mijatovic. I can't do this. They take two minutes each, and I have two minutes in total. What's the point here? I sincerely hoped at the beginning of this debate, according to counterpart Tomic in some way, a clear criterion will be established without any political or personal influence on the choice of candidates. This is the knowledge shown in the tests and all of these conditions, i.e. the preconditions to compete. What is the ultimate goal of us Serbian radicals? Well, that's exactly what the Republic Audit Institution was pointing out for us. The president of the institution said here that he had problems with public procurement, so the Commission for the Protection of Competition told us in the same or similar way, and the Fiscal Council, so the most direct public, the president of the state, recently told us, during his stay in the tour of Serbia -- where these huge funds were invested in health care, what about the equipment that the great money was given for, how that equipment was obtained. That's what the president of the state said, your party president. I don't know if you've changed it? And you don't have to change it. He was good at radicals, what would you miss? If it wasn't for him, God asks you where it would go. But he clearly referred to the question - where are all this money about getting medical equipment? Medical equipment is obtained by examining public procurement planned at the beginning of the year and having exceptional cases. When he said the number, that they were billions, they just lost track. What are we discussing here? We're discussing a commission that needs to control and enforce the regularity of all this. It is only in favour of what the colleague, as an authorised representative of the promoter, has begun to speak. (President: Thank you, colleague. You said you'd give me extra time. (President: You've got 44 seconds. I don't need heroes like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57507	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57508	The biggest problem with the Public Procurement Act is that individual contracting authorities and individual performers do not want the law to be applied. Contractors and public contractors. You can call them suppliers, you can call them whatever you want, service providers, I absolutely don't care. So that's one part of the story. The Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures may react in a public procurement procedure if someone writes a complaint or a complaint. Until that moment, he can't. And does anyone know to tell me who has the right to write a complaint or a complaint at any time in the public procurement process? Any adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Any one of them. It doesn't have to be in the public procurement process at all. Absolutely not. He writes the complaint and the Commission is obliged to suspend the procurement procedure temporarily and to decide on the appeal. So if we want the law to be applied, the whole procurement process must be clearly defined first. That's the law itself. No more public procurement is published in some newspapers with a hundred copies of the circulation. It must also be published in the daily papers, it must also be published in "The Official Messenger", but most importantly, it must also be on the portal of the Public Procurement Authority. When it comes to low-value public procurement, have we had three or four bidders for the entire Republic of Serbia? Now there are several hundred of them. He can collect bids of three or four, but he will get offers from those he has not invited, because in the first place the procedure is public, transparent, visible to all. Same thing in complaints.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57509	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57510	Mr. Arsic, you're right, the law allows every citizen. If a graduation could be carried out, the country's first citizen, Aleksandar Vukic, expressed doubts about medical equipment. Isn't that a reason to deal with public procurement for medical equipment? Isn't every day a public bombing with information that one medical equipment producer is privileged to a particular part of Serbia? Isn't that enough for the Commission, which is objective, neutral, to end up being able to initiate this procedure on the basis of publicly spoken words? But how do you expect to have an understanding and understanding of what the president of the state is saying when you're busy with some other things? You're looking here to answer me, in a way that will please your superiors. That's not the point, Mr. Arsic. The bottom line is we find a common solution here. I ask you -- how is the member concerned in continuity for five years, or 10 years, a five-year term, after the end of the term, re-tests like everyone else, not because he worked well, because he measured his solved number of cases. Well, it's not that, Mr. Arsic, digging the ground to measure the cubes of the earth as much as it's been cast out. It's the easiest thing to do. There's got to be a criterion here that's the same for everyone. He's running tests again. The five-year term is up. And that raises doubt. Now it's a little bit clearer to us why when the president of the state warns of any shortcomings, malfeasance, and this is the most direct issue of public procurement, which is why it is seen and viewed on the side. As long as he doesn't accentuate and squeeze, no one moves. It can't work like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57511	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, we're going back to a start again, and if he's laying, he's not laying. We've cleared up - the old board member doesn't lay down and has no recheck, now I hear he does. But, okay. I don't want to talk about it right now in this replica. As far as the health care system is concerned, let's look at what's been done in Serbia for the last few years. Here, Serbia first won its clinical centre in Nis a few months ago. Not to talk about buying the most expensive equipment no one in the region has. And that's being bought by the Health Services Fund. It's all true, it costs a lot, a lot of money is spent. You can't see as much as you should, because the country was abandoned and the health care system was completely destroyed, so it takes years to build it all up. And about whether or not we favor one manufacturer or more, I can't answer on behalf of the ministry or the minister, but I am for medical equipment to be standardised. We can have more suppliers, but we can standardize equipment that would be compatible with each other, because it's much cheaper maintenance, lager spare parts, and therefore service and repair of these devices. Now, if we're always talking about somebody favoring themselves, because of a political story, and we don't see how much we're actually hurting our country and how much our country is going to pay more expensive things, we're not interested in it. We shouldn't act like MPs. That absolutely doesn't. So I am for standardisation, because of the savings that standardisation itself gives when it comes to medical equipment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57513	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57514	This is about the simple thing that consists of trying to prevent corruption. She's a source and a crime scene. What you're saying has nothing to do with this agenda point. Nobody argues that it's done, that it's obtained, it's all in work. But do you realize, all of you sitting here and those watching, huge resources are being allocated, specifically, to the supply of medical equipment. If the president of the state asks where two billion have gone, what do I need with you to discuss as an opposition, to ask you where the two billion are? Why don't you give me an answer? Do you know, gentlemen, that public procurement and individual clinical centres are not just in the Ministry? They're also doing secretaries. There are other levels involved. Don't let us spin around and tell an empty story, and on the other hand, individuals get rich and everyone sees it, among other things, through public procurement. He who is the manufacturer of the equipment, especially for the needs of medicine, when it comes to expensive equipment, is interested in having a little bribe and talking about it and the president of the state. Don't you understand the president? Is there anything new about you that you don't want to understand, that I'm not getting into, that's politicizing? Here is the fight against corruption and against crime, and this has been warned, among other things, by auditors and the protection of competition and the Fiscal Council and the Anti-Corruption Commission. One of the hotspots is in public procurement right now. That's what this is about. We can say whatever we want here, compare the past period and the bright future, but the bottom line is that we have to create a unique criteria for selecting board members who will be in charge of carrying out regular public procurement, and they're based on knowledge based on points. The impression, the personal impression, the impression, that's something that's more emotional than the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57515	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57516	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so they're more important emotions, appearances than knowledge given in writing. Here, that's what's been said. Well, he can't. If he did not show the level of knowledge at the written test, he will not be taken into account. And, let's get this over with, not who looks like it. So there is a criterion – knowledge. Is knowledge being checked? He's checking himself out. Is it almost impossible to come to a question? Almost impossible. It's not a little prom. There's no question. Do you know how many of them they were looking for? I don't know, I don't have it. And when questions are brought, they lock themselves in the safe and the safe is sealed and so on before the test. Furthermore, when it comes to these public procurements in the area of health care, the Public Procurement Act entered in 2015. The healthcare fund saved for the same amount of medical equipment and medications that were obtained in 2012 or 2013, it was purchased in 2015, we only paid 400m euros less. Is that not a contribution to fighting corruption? Individual cases are not a system problem, but a problem with the prosecution and the police, and they deal with it, and the job of the National Assembly is to create a system that two authorities can work in full capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57517	Comrade Mircic, you will be entitled to a replica, but I am asking you and Mr Arsic to keep one thing in mind. We need to take a regular break, and after that, we need to continue the debate, really, not wanting to prevent a democratic conflict of opinion and a democratic debate, but there will be a time after that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57518	Well, here, in order not to be a curved image like in a mirror, we're just insisting that we get rid of emotional charges and impressions, but be a real parameter. What's this about? It's just that when questions are asked, that mystery by rounding up numbers, come on, and it's acceptable. When on the basis of these round numbers, 42 questions are set in this case, when the test that is being carried out shows how many points, that, and the colleague says, should be the basic criterion, we will not speak the only but basic criterion, to say, rather than to vote, overrule that number of points. Now, Mr Arsic, for the first time, we hope that this will be a rule, someone who has achieved the highest number of points proposed for a member of the Commission and that it will be a criterion in the coming period and there will be fewer opportunities for malversion, there will be fewer doubts. Well, we, by nature, suspect things from the opposition. What does that mean you talked to someone, so you voted, so someone with 40 points can't get through, and someone who's 37, that's passing? What does that mean? It's simply a justification for doubting there's some background. This background is not composed of that person's expertise, in reliability, but of something called possibly political calculations. This has to be prevented. It's our insistence, the Serbian radicals, and you're looking at it as a mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57519	Thank you. You spoke to Mr. Arsic. Now I have to enable him to respond, and with a request, Mr. Arsic, that you do not do what your colleague Mircic did, and then to challenge a new replica, but to take a break an hour after your replica and then to continue with a constructive discussion afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57520	Here, during this debate, there is an impression, not from me, that candidates are chosen by beauty, by politicality, without taking into account their knowledge in writing testing. Let me get this straight. No member of the Commission has been proposed by the Finance Committee which has not passed the knowledge test of the Public Procurement Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Bond Relations Act, no candidate has passed. Now, should the opposition be respected? Yeah. Does he need their suggestions? Some time yes, some time not. Of course, we're not obliged because, apart from the political discussion, they have no responsibility to the state when the state is run, they don't have that level of responsibility, they certainly have part of the responsibility. Well, then, we're going to consider their suggestions, and if we're going to adopt them, that's what we're going to see. For now, there is one system of election of candidates for members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which has produced an extraordinary result. If something gives an extraordinary result, I don't know why we're changing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57521	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57523	I thank you, Chairman. At the very beginning of the discussion on this item of the agenda, which is, among other things, the last one in the set of proposals we are discussing in this Corps and the call, to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will propose, i.e. to support the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. There are a number of reasons for that, and most importantly, it is important that this Parliament retains its role that this kind of supervision and control, which implies exactly this systemic way of solving certain problems, continues to exist, and that through a resolution committee, which is responsible for finance, we can in some way influence the control of public procurement, that is to say, through members who are elected to the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Given the numerous cases of corruptive action, especially corruption that occurs in public procurement procedures, I think it was absolutely established what was pointed out in its opening work by fellow Members of Parliament, Mrs Tomic, when she explained how to elect members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Of course, those conditions that are otherwise standardised as conditions, when it comes to personal solutions, we can call them that, starting with a professional arrangement, which means a high professional reference, the necessary knowledge and experience acquired in the areas of public procurement, then, a passed judicial exam, if it is a person who is a graduate lawyer, or an experience, or a license and certificate of a person who binds himself to other activities, and is also related to the procedure of public procurement and, ultimately, what is inevitable, and that is the time, therefore, five years of work experience in these areas. Given that these conditions are set as conditions of general nature, it is logical that we support them and it is logical that based on these conditions all candidates can be checked, can verify their quality, their knowledge and, ultimately, in a completely transparent process, in a fully regular process those who deserve and deserve to be chosen. In the end, I would just point out one fact that may be known, and perhaps it is not for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is just in Article 28. The Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted at the end of 2012, has started to apply since 1 April 2013, the prescribed obligation to appoint a citizen supervisor in public procurement procedures and that even the Civil Supervisor Regulation has been adopted in this regard. What's this about? In terms of powers, we can say, a legal institute that's somewhere around the pandan to the ombudsman, or Protector of the Citizens, by showing up here as some kind of control when it comes to public procurement procedures. This way, it is no doubt that it contributes to the empowerment of civil society organisations for the monitoring of public procurement. Therefore, this kind of control, supervision and, of course, all that is in the power of the ministry, it is no doubt that it enjoys support from the SPS parliamentary group. They only repeat once again, we will support this motion in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57524	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57525	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will certainly vote for the proposed member. Public procurement is a very serious matter. We need to look at what happened before us, if we don't want to repeat our mistakes. Public procurement is linked to corruption. Corruption is kind of a personal tax. This public official or public official, who already receives a salary from public sources, is establishing a private tax rate and collecting some kind of income to himself. The problem is that corruption, and yellow ones are the best example, can eat the country. Corruption is harmful for both government and we all saw how, for example, Bojan Pajtic had not given power in Vojvodina for 16 years, precisely because of corruption, because they were aware of the possibility that due to excessive corruption they would one day respond. Only these impatient prosecutors who went out today, whenever we talked about corruption and when we talked about the crime of Pajtic, Gilas, Tadic and Jeremic, only these prosecutors and the court of their party, and they were aware of the corruption and the possibilities to respond, and they translated it into a famous reform of the judiciary, so you were free to combine these two points, because they were also connected. Because this famous reform has just worked so that they will not be responsible for corruption during public secret procurement. Dragan Gilas, the great exporter of folk money, the man who earned 500 million while others lost everything. According to international organisations, only out of privatisation has 51 billion dollars been taken out of the first 11 years. That's the money they made while everyone else was losing it, they turned it into Virgin, Cook, and all kinds of other islands. As the people lost everything, they gained everything, while the people remained on the street, especially those who supported them until the change of 2000, they placed themselves in the most luxurious castles, penthouses, etc. That part of the public secret procurement, in my opinion, has never been sufficiently examined or investigated. It's impossible that Gilas isn't in jail, and here I am offering them to lock me up. Too much wealth harms, rich people hate their people. The best proof of that is Dragan Gilas. Bill Gates, who we all know has earned his fortune, has given 95% of his wealth to the poor. More than 95% of the wealth, its wealth, Gilas has taken from the poor today and Solak through cross-border channels has taken from poor subscribers who can't even watch the football team unless they're overpaid to the SBB. It's the rest of that corrupt system. The one there, Goran Petrovic, from REM, is living proof of this corruption, and whenever we ask why Gilas and Solak make that money in this way, through fake cross-border channels from Luxembourg, through untaxed commercials, etc., I always get a response written by Sorlak, Gilas, "Adria News" and "United Group" and "United Media" and "Jilas" still filled with pockets with folk money. Judges and prosecutors, you've all seen, in the morning they don't grumble in one eye, they don't grumble in both eyes, which our people would say, because they don't want to hear the shrubs and the ears. That's almost amazing. Dragan Djilas, suspected of all diplomas, except Sutanovceva and Jesic, made a bridge on Ada and a river of 120m or 150m, with no idea, a kilometer or more. So, he didn't make Gilas' turkey where it's the hardest, which each of us hosts would look to bridge it where it's cheapest and where it's the cheapest, he watched where it's the most expensive and expensive. The project, which was supposed to be worth 90 million, and then later on, a new 116 million eventually came out 450 million and I see that it's interesting for Vladi Marinkovic. It's really interesting when something that's supposed to cost $90 million is 450 million or 460 million without all access traffic. So you get to know the architects a little bit better, they say it'll cost another 2.4 billion euros to do the tunnel and all the pre-accession traffic stations that need to be operational to keep the bridge fully operational, this is how the bridge connects two Belgrade meat communities, and I'm free to say that Gilas translated the thirsty across the water by that bridge. Thirsty over water not only hundreds of thousands of Belgrade citizens, but all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who will pay the debt one way or another. When the city or state is in debt, the people write a note. Gilas cashed the bill signed by the citizens, who were the bailiffs of that bond, and no one asked them whether they wanted to be juryed for Gilas's loans, where one bridge cost four times more than the price was projected, five times the first project, four times more than the second project. Well, public procurement, the bridge on Ada has never been explored. No underground containers have ever been investigated, bus-plus, 600 cloths cut in the boulevard of Alexander Alexander to the former Boulevard of the Revolution. It probably qualified him for the Green Party, which, seeing Gilas successfully cut the canvass, decided to become Gilas's basic party, or Gilas bought the party, as he bought DS through debts, as he bought the left as well. The only party he founded, it's Boška Obradovica's party, so that's the one Bosko like this, who swore this, so when he came to Gilas, it was like this. So it's this Dragan Gilas who buys MP clubs with folk money, who buys parties that buy Borko, who buys Boško Zlatic Ljotic. So, this Dragan Gilas whose machinations have never been investigated. What should we talk about Goran Jesic and his public procurement? The state auditor filed seven criminal charges in India, only in control which was for 2013 and which did not cover all public enterprises, all institutions, because the man could not investigate it, would have to be in India for one year to investigate all the marifets of Goran Jesic. So it is the president of the municipality, which, with a 800-euro salary, managed to buy an apartment in Vienna of 160m square meters. Now I ask, who paid for that apartment in Vienna? He certainly paid him, but with whose money, he certainly didn't pay him Bill Gates' money for whom we know he acquired it and how he shared it with the poor, and Jesic, seeing it from Gilas, also decided to rob these poor ones a little bit and make them poorer. People are not poor because of poor people, but because of rich people. Rich people produce poverty, not poor and medium standing, because rich people in Serbia are like those who drink seawater, the more they drink, the more they thirst. Dragan Gilas and a team from the yellow company, the former regime's parties are obvious evidence of that. The more they stole, the more they boasted, the more they needed and the more money they lied out. Not only did they bring the money out, when they took the money real poverty, when they brought it out twice making poverty, because that money doesn't spend anymore in our country, that money is on Cook's, Virgin Islands, Cyprus, on various world islands, that money isn't in our payment system. One thing is that they stole it, if they spent it here, then it would have come to our store, some of our businesses, etc., but since they took it out, they'd have povertyed people twice. The first time they stole it, and the second time they took it out of payment traffic, and then they took some of the country's social product out of the country. Those who were here this afternoon and who couldn't wait to leave are as guilty as they are. Those who do not prevent evil and those who do not punish evil, and these are the courts and the prosecutions. The prosecutions do not persecute evil, do not persecute the guilty for the benefit of the innocent, but persecute the innocent for the benefit of the guilty, so I advise them, when they have not already been able to punish and persecute the guilty, let them at least try to punish us innocent, because they can no longer look at various judges, every honor to the exceptions, there are many, from the time of the yellow criminal enterprise, who have agreed to the yellow party and the yellow enterprise to judge their party. The court of their party will not judge their party officials, who, on the basis of their functions, join their public functions, with private affairs and unprecedented corruption, rob the citizens of this country, impoverish this country, and in 2012 we watched a kidnapped country, out of the hands of their citizens, we watched citizens whose poverty was almost out of sight. That's why I call on those prosecutors and judges, who still don't look like Judge Majic and the like, to try to punish this crime, crime in privatisation, crime in public procurement, who happened, who destitute this society, unless we put it in, that's what someone said, a point to their crimes. Their crime will sooner or later return and put an end to this country, and I don't think that's what our citizens and we ourselves want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57526	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Anybody else answer for a word? MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the opportunity to open a debate on the Law on Public Procurement and the application of the Law on Public Procurement by one of the members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I am pleased first that none of the colleagues who do not even support the government of the Republic of Serbia, means from the opposition, have criticised the law in the sense that the law has serious shortcomings, serious shortcomings and that it allows for a job, linked to the investment of state, public enterprises and local self-government and autonomous provinces, to pass good rules and customs. However, I will not miss the opportunity to say that it was during the period when various DOS mutations ruled the Republic of Serbia and how the Law on Public Procurement was implemented, and how from one of my fellow MPs, from the then DOS, who came to the National Assembly, with mutilated suits, some even with torn shoes, how the presidents of the city municipalities had changed, and they wore suits more expensive than most citizens could afford a car. And while such public procurement laws applied, we also came to those who exercised power and acquired enormous wealth. Dragan Gilas was also mentioned, there are many of them, there would be a longer list, around all DS, DOS and former regimes, who have been rich. Public contractors were also rich, because in that part of the business, and money, there is a lot more to be paid than that service or goods are worth, so there was something left for a corrupt politician, and there was something left for a arrogant businessman, and in the people they were known as tycoons. None of them earned money by honest work, but by the privileges that corruption gave them, when they were giving money to the people in power at the time. I would just like to remind myself that a few things from the old Public Procurement Act, which, unfortunately, has put us so far back, that simply if more candidates were to apply in any procedure, and their candidate, already pre-prepared, made the lowest offer and to end it, there would be no misery. As soon as the basic contract is concluded due to unforeseen circumstances, the contract is annexed to 25% of public works, meaning the value to be paid by the state is increased, so after several months to another 25% and the most frequently the value of the final contract is about 100% different from the contract originally signed. Where the 100 percent ended, so I believe they were brotherly sharing, half a tycoon, half a jilas and a team around Gilas. That's what it looked like before. How long did that go? I can only point out one example that there was no provision in our legislation of a criminal offence related to abuses in public procurement procedures. So, they could steal as much as they wanted, kidnap from Serbia, from its citizens as much as they wanted, and there is no legal regulations on which they could be tried and convicted. It is not common, but I guess in the desire to finally root out this evil in Serbia, the basic Public Procurement Act provides for a criminal offence in public procurement procedures, and only then could they come under the influence of the law. The second thing that is surprising is the commission itself, which was then engaged as a second-degree body for the protection of all those involved in the tenders, I can say that the commission almost didn't work at all, and even when it did, it was a very strange, very discreet decision-making process, about how jobs were assigned. As Mr Galic led the commission, it is enough to look at the current Commission's report on protection in public procurement procedures, that the commission is today working out in procedures that are still from 2009, 2010 and 2011. Should such a man and such men be more respected and given the opportunity to participate in the work of such a commission? I don't think so. They should be thanked, if we consider that there is something, that it was against the law, to inform the competent state authorities, but more for the state authority, the state administration is no longer in place. Moreover, it is not necessary to weep over their fate because I am sure that because of the lack of public procurement law, that they, as members of the commission, provided themselves well at the time. Here we are talking about a order of nearly ten billion euros per year. The Serbian Progressive Party is not only in the pre-election campaign but has made changes and additions to the Public Procurement Act almost two years before the 2012 elections. Imagine if they didn't even want to talk at the time, then DOS and then the regime, and now the former regime, and see if there was any intention at all to pay attention to one of these very sensitive issues and to do at least something good for their country, to do at least something for the citizens who went out to the elections and gave them their trust, and I don't know, it seems to me 107, 108 mandates were given in 2008. It didn't matter to them either. It was important that Serbia slowly turned into a private enterprise of several people, and that the resources of the state and its citizens slowly move on to ownership of the click that is now being gathered around Dragan Gilas. I don't want to mention something about Vuk Jeremic, he doesn't deserve much in this debate, he's not professional enough, but tycoon Gilas is, because we don't even know how they conducted public procurement when it comes to bridge on Ada, but we don't even know what the final price of that bridge is. Here, after so many years, because there was only one project for the bridge, for the access roads, no one there did an expropriation of land, the public interest was not established. Now, you see, when there's no established public interest, then we go as planned, we'll pay a little more, but it won't all be left to you, etc. That's how it worked until 2012. I know that many colleagues in the former regime regret that today is not the case. They've been doing a lot of good in all these marriquettes and robberies, and I can tell them it's never gonna be like that again. They can try, but as long as they do not admit their mistakes and give up all those who participated in this big robbery of the Republic of Serbia will never come to power. This law and today suffers terrible criticism, I cannot tell the professional public. The professional public who understands public procurement and is not a party to the procedure under the Law on Public Procurement itself says the law is good, but here is enough to open some of the papers dealing with, like, public finances, which deal with the economy, otherwise the most financed by Miskovic, Gilas, Šolak, etc., one of the laws that is hit and such critics is the current Public Procurement Act. As much as what was done in the past period before 2012, this law is not only obstructed by tycoons, but also by public works performers, and often also by orderers. If so, it is sufficient to enter only one or check several cases before the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the most frequently criticised part of the Commission's work is the decision-making process. The decision-making process today moves from 26 days to 28 days, and someone will say, "Well, no, but the complaint was written three or four months ago," but it won't end up telling the truth that it was written and what kind of documentation was given to the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I am even the applicant of the complaint, and I believe it is in his interest to decide as soon as possible, not to provide the Commission with complete documentation at his disposal, so that the Commission may start to decide on the appeal procedure. Of course, there are deadlines when the Commission asks the applicant to do so, and then we come across another problem, which is that the contracting authority does not supply the Commission for protection of the right complete documentation, and then is asked again to provide complete documentation, believe it or not, that correspondence between the applicants, the contracting authorities and the Commission takes about three months. Is that the responsibility of the Commission? I think that in no way can it be the responsibility of the Commission for the protection of rights in public procurement procedures, but solely those involved in the procurement process. Why? So the aim is to discredit the law, the aim is to simply show itself inefficient and the goal is to restore the type of legislation it was before 2012. That's the goal. If you want anyone, and to be clear, public procurement procedures are not carried out by officials but by the administrations themselves, if you want any of those who work at the Administration and sabotage their own company in which they work, and they are mainly brought in during the former regime, if you want to move it or God forbid you fire it, it comes down to the story of rematch and party employment, and, behold, it is precisely those who brought such ones to their positions to steal the money of Serbian citizens and the money of the state of Serbia together. That this law and the work of this committee passed the test tells us a few facts in favor. First, the savings that were made under this law. Someone will say -- well, you wrote a new law, why did you introduce fiscal consolidation measures when, well, only by applying the Public Procurement Act, you have such savings that fiscal consolidation measures shouldn't even be implemented? It's an interpretation, and it just speaks in favor of what I said a few minutes ago. For example, only in the Health Protection Fund at the annual level is 400m euros for the same amount of drugs and equipment bought in 2011 or 2012 and bought now. But those 400m euros saved do not return to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but focus on even better health protection for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The same thing that's being saved on traffic infrastructures, and they're not small, they're not small, but they're very significant amounts, I expect you'll save those savings to direct even more built and reconstructed roads. I guess that's the purpose of buying more equipment with the same amount of money, paying more services with the same amount of money, or doing more roads with the same amount of money, reconstructing railways, etc. I guess that's the purpose of saving, not the purpose of saving so that, well, we can figure it out and move on like the old one. That the law is good confirms another fact. It was about these public purchases of small value, whether three offers were enough. Well, it is, but there's another problem. Even the public purchases of small values must be announced to the Public Procurement Agency portal, they must be in the contract plan, they must be announced, a complete advertisement and not only enough to collect three offers, but everyone they did not invite to make an offer, based on an ad, to make their offer that must be considered and decided on as if it were also by invitation. So we have a situation where, for example, when there was a monopoly of certain companies, there were perhaps only three or four in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia for some small public procurement services, especially small ones, that we now have several hundred such companies that have the opportunity to participate in the public procurement process, get jobs and thus provide the source of income for the salaries of their employees and for their families. So the principle of competition was improved by the Public Procurement Act. As I said, and the time at which the Commission decides to protect the rights in public procurement procedures is reduced to that legal deadline, which is 30 days, is now slightly less. At first, there were problems, it was that the two majors in which they decided were not enough, we added the amendments and the additions to make it another commission that would decide. But I'm surprised that none of the colleagues have yet to understand why the composition of the committee, or the composition of the council, has to be that way and it's prescribed by law and it's not free will or by the Committee of Finance, nor by the free will of us who participate in this process. Under the Public Procurement Act, two members of the commission must be graduates with a passed judicial exam, and one, only one graduate economist, i.e. to have a certificate regarding public procurement. In this way, we have decided that the Commission is indeed deciding, the minority at the level of one court, and therefore we are not surprised that hundreds of lawsuits referring to decisions, the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as far as I know, the Administrative Court has annulled only three. I can only wish for a future member of the commission, a lot of success in the work and not let demagogy scare him into doing his job quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57528	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57529	First off, buddy, you said two impossible things. The first is – "I think," and the second is, "you accused Borislav Galic of illegally acquiring property in the amount of several hundred thousand euros". You should take care of what you say and if you have arguments and evidence of what you say. For the first time, you have no proof, and for the second, you'll have to prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57530	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57531	Comrade Marinkovic, I expect you to give a warning to your colleague, Mr Branislav Galic. If you followed the session, my colleague Mircic said it was impossible for me to think and that I shouldn't have said it at all. So if he wants to insult his colleagues, let him do it somewhere else. Here in the National Assembly, if any of you have better arguments, if anyone has better knowledge doesn't deserve to be offended, and if he thinks that he participates in the work of the National Assembly, let him read the law, read the material, and then he will know what he's talking about, and I ask that the National Assembly in the day of voting be made clear about this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57532	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. I am taking the opportunity once again to call on my colleagues to be truly correct with each other and to express, of course, solidarity with my colleague Arsic and as chairman, and personally, we should not do so. We are now going to order the MPs to apply for a word in a single search on a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Point 8 of the agenda. The word has a professor, Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, colleague Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57533	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have heard many times today, public procurement is an extremely important thing, and on the other hand, a thing that is very often exposed to various types of corruption, especially as public procurement stretches from the state apparatus, via AP to local self-government. In particular, it follows that a public competition or competition, as one of the really serious instruments of selecting members for any kind of job, has been chosen by one who deserves to be with 42 total points of those, therefore, which is possible 42. We are also pleased to see that someone born in those parts where public procurement really needs to be analysed particularly well and where corruption is most susceptible. Coliar Arsic spoke about the fact that there were many abuses of public procurement in the previous period, however, there are cities and municipalities where it is not yet past, where constant abuses of public procurement are still taking place, and so is the hometown of the candidates we are choosing today, which is the town of Tutin, where 30 years of continuous public procurement are being abused as one basic instrument that local government, Mr. Ugljanin, uses from budget to budget to draw money from citizens of his city and in order to bring that money to life with private pockets. Of course, that's why we think it's good that the candidate who is from this city and who we're going to support as an exceptional candidate, as we've informed ourselves, first starts to deal with these public procurements and their municipalities and finds that there have really been a lot of abuses and that these abuses are happening today, let's just say in that municipality of Tutin. Therefore, I am not surprised when a Serbian government minister comes to visit the municipality, as happened last weekend, that the mayor of the municipality will not be in his office if it is announced to welcome him, precisely because the minister is making a big investment, where public procurement will again be very important. So Minister Djordjevic comes to visit the Tutin municipality last weekend, schedules neatly with Mayor Tutin's reception, but the mayor does not want to receive either the minister or the state secretaries. Why? Because Minister Djordjevic and State Secretary Redzepovic provided serious money yesterday, we heard about a complete reconstruction of the home in Tutin. I am thanking them on behalf of the citizens of Tutina, on behalf of us who come from these parts, and we are truly pleased with this kind of investment by the Serbian Government in a city which has been the subject of abuse of local and all transfers coming from the republican budgets for three decades. That is why it is very important when we talk about corruption, when we talk about the abuses of public procurement, to throw a beam of light at these parts, and therefore we are particularly happy that someone who is competent, above all, who has passed an anonymous competition, will have the opportunity to deal with both this part of the country and we are particularly hoping that this will be particularly motivated to do so because it is originating in that place and because there is a lot of work, because as we have heard in other parts of the country, there has already been some work done there. However, the citizens of Tutina still, here three decades after the establishment of a multi-party system, are still victims of a local policy, which as a bloodsucker drinks everything that is healthy and which should be used to improve the quality of life of these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57534	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57535	I thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected from the SNS list, and I represent the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Assembly. This is how I started, and I will keep talking always because I want to say where I come from, where I come from, and I want to represent that end, not only the Srlig, but all the municipalities in southeastern Serbia that do not have their representatives in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Otherwise, the choice of a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures for me as a man is very important as... The solution does not matter, but, on the other hand, it is important that the public procurement process is something for all of us living in a place, we live in the Republic of Serbia as well. We know that within these procedures that were done in the previous period, there were a large number of crimes that a large number of people were responsible for. It was the period since 2012, because through public procurement procedures, very negative things have happened that some work, that some work for anything costs 50% to 100% higher price than it should be. We have managed to put some things in our right place by the new Public Procurement Act and thus have provided the Republic of Serbia with more funds to develop small communities, more funds to develop agriculture, to develop everything that is important that we live in the southeast of Serbia in small municipalities, in our villages. We gave him the first bar of opportunity to through these public procurement jobs with people who are competent in the context of saving funds and that they can be much easier and more kilometres of times done, to do water supplies, to provide quality medicines for the treatment of all our people. Normally, for the first time, funds have been provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for our women living in the country to provide them with a safer future for those women who are born and who remain to live in the country and are provided with funds for each child, which means that this is one way to ensure a safer life for all of us who still want to stay in our small communities such as the municipality of Svrljig, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, such as the municipality of Kljažvac, Bolec and other municipalities that have capacity, but there are fewer people and because of the demographic map it is worrying. I think we've done certain things so far, at least as far as it's concerned, but I think we'll have to invest more in this kind of savings through public procurement to do it transparently, whether it's small or larger public procurement, whether it's advertised or not, but it's important that any public procurement, whether it's small values, be advertised, that it's known what's done, how it's done. Normally, and these great public procurements, and they are increasingly transparent and visible, so that they can be safely controlled, to see how they are done. Normally, at all times, there's an opportunity to check it all out. I think by investing in our small municipalities, in our villages, through a programme provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, through a programme for regional development, through the development of cooperatives, we have a great chance of ensuring life for all of our people living in these small municipalities. In particular, Serbia's southeast, the centre of southeastern Serbia has a great chance and large funds are already being invested there. It is a road infrastructure, the construction of roads, railway infrastructure, and it is all made from real resources because largely the funds that have been used to save through these decisions and laws that we have made here in our Assembly from 2014 to 2019, since he was Prime Minister and Prime Minister Mr. Vukic and now Serbian President. I think we just heard a number of negative things about the 2012 period, how it was done, how it was done, which are the way the funds of all our citizens of Serbia have been misused, that they have been used in a way that is not similar to those people who did it, but the law for everyone and everyone for their work or not work has to answer to the law. Through the programme of protection of all people who are in the business of public procurement and those who order and those who appear as performers we have here and some members who will make these newly elected members in these commissions and they will do whatever it takes to ensure the safety of all those involved in public procurement procedures. I think as president of the United Peasants' Party and representative of people living in the country and living from the village, I see myself as a man who wants to provide more resources for these small communities in the coming period, for our villages, for people who stay in the country to increase those resources within the current ones, especially for those people living in the country, where children are born, that for every newborn child, at least 50% more funds are provided for each unemployed child than for those people living in urban areas. In this way, we put our attention to these residents, to our agricultural producers, to all those living in these small communities, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia. Once again, I will support this proposal regarding what I've been saying. I think that all of us who are here think well of our Serbia, and investing in our agriculture, investing in these small underdeveloped municipalities, investing in southeastern Serbia is an investment in the development of our entire Serbia. I call on all fellow MPs to support small-centre development policy, agriculture development policy and the development of southeast Serbia, where Nis is the centre of southeast Serbia. I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will vote for all proposals that give the opportunity to develop small environments and our villages, and the southeast of Serbia, as well as Serbia itself, to develop in the best way. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57536	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to show a copy of the Republic of Serbia's foreign passports to the girl from Kosovo and Metohija, Serbian Kosovo and Metohija. The passport was removed in Belgrade. The Republic of Serbia-Coordination Administration writes. With that passport, she is a second-class citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as she cannot travel to countries where citizens of the Republic of Serbia can travel from central Serbia and the province of Vojvodina. I ask the Government, and above all, the Foreign Ministry, that with all the embassies with which we have diplomatic relations, the question is once and for all that Serbian citizens must have the same treatment in all countries, regardless of what part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia live as long as the UN Charter exists, while there is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and there is Resolution 1244. I asked the Secretary General of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Odalovic, today, that he personally intervened in order to regulate this case, an inappropriate case. Second, after mass bee poisoning, today there are mass slaughtering of cattle to peasants because of stray dogs, given that the services involved in the collection of stray dogs, come, catch two dogs, take them to treatment by veterinary procedure, and then return five dogs to that village. They gather in packs and mass destruction of herds to Serbian peasants. The latest slaughter of cattle is in the Barajo municipality. I've got more movie records and evidence about it. How do we feel about reviving the village if we behave this way and do not protect the interests of farmers? Third, what happened to the culture strategy of the Republic of Serbia? It's been two years. It's not on the agenda. What about the Law of Letters, the Serbian Cyrillic? Why did the Secretary of State, a poet, resign from the Ministry of Culture? That's all the questions we don't get answers to. Why do they say that the Latin letter is even with the Cyrillic letter? That's not true. It was at the time of the SFRY while there was a Serbian-Croatian language. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 10, says that the official language and official letter – Serbian and Cyrillic, and point 19) of the Declaration on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union is also defined as the official language and that the Cyrillic letter is also an official letter. I see no reason to wait two years, or wait for this mandate to pass without being regulated. Finally, I would ask that there be no more discrimination against me as an opposition MP, impartial and independent, because in the past two sessions, I have three times not been allowed by the chairman. That's really inappropriate. First time declaring a five-minute break. The second time I interrupt the session after the discussion, a debater who repeatedly mentioned me completely beyond the context of my activities, etc. If you want to discredit me and want a narcissistic unity in the congregation, then feel free to say so, I will leave the congregation. Also, I ask the President of the National Assembly to review the footage when I am being humiliated in this way and to take appropriate measures. The last question, until when will the ruling council demean the ladies? Why can two vice presidents of the assembly never chair the assembly? Imagine if you were an opposition party, what would you say about such a procedure that your vice presidents could not chair the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57538	Thank you, Professor. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic wants a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you can compare me with some other MPs who are also active here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57540	What member, colleague Risticevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57541	You'll get the result that I do it five times less than everyone else, I'm talking about more active MPs. I'm advertising Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57542	I'm guessing more members.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57543	You don't assume, you're already allowed. You don't assume, you're just allowing a rude violation of article 106. This has no limit. That's funny to you. The questions are asked at 10 in the morning. At 10:00 in the morning, we were asking questions. All MPs had the right, in proportion to the strength of their parliamentary groups, to ask questions to the government, the Assembly, etc. The topic is public procurement, the subject is neither bees, nor letters, nor Cyrillic, etc. By the way, when Dusan Petrovic referred to the MP for money, to be paid off from the "Old Project", which was intended for cattle farming on the Old Mountain, then he addressed it with Latin. I've shown it around here many times. Now we're in the next position, if you don't let me talk about anything I want, that if you don't behave the way I want you to, here I don't agree to be an opposition, and now I'm going to go outside. It doesn't have a limit. I simply respect your tolerance for opposition MPs, and I respect that you have allowed questions to be asked earlier that have nothing to do with the agenda, but I cannot allow threats, that someone should say – I will not work, I will not participate in the work, I will leave because you are not acting as they answer me. So, I'm not asking to vote on this, since I like to see you tolerate opposition MPs, but make sure it has some limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57544	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I just respected Mr. Chevarlic's political agenda and what he was saying, and of course I don't agree with anyone discriminating him here. Veroljub Arsic has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57545	Here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are accused of committing even sexual discrimination against the ladies, right? As far as I know, the president of the National Assembly is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, right here in front of me, I have to ask Mrs. Gojkovic – are you a lady? (Maya Gojkovic: I don't know.) So, from the discussion of colleague Ševarlic... (Alexander Martinovic: No, he said "members of the lady". ( ) Ladies, here we are, disciplining. The other thing is straight to the replica. He was given it and can count how many times he's had a replica, but he can't every time. The third thing, you know, I understand there are independent MPs, but non-partisan personalities, it's very discriminatory, because the foundations of a single state's political system are political parties. So that's the basis of democracy in one country. I suppose that election list contains people with some clearly defined political goal? Now, citizens in the election vote for a single-list programme. We can always ask the question of how are you a non-party figure when you went to the polls by supporting the programme of a political party or two? It doesn't exist, we don't fool ourselves, it doesn't exist. Nowhere in political theory does that exist. So, citizens decide who they will trust, or vote for it in relation to what kind of political programme it offers. Now, if someone is a non-party person or accepts that political program, it's on the list or doesn't accept anything, then he doesn't even know where it is, especially in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57546	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to a replica has Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57547	Thank you. I sent only part of Professor Chevarlic's discussion, where he asked me to do something as president of parliament. I'll do my best if that's technically possible. I was wondering if I was a lady. I don't know. That's not a woman who claims to be someone who says she's a lady who doesn't claim to be herself. I am a woman, and if I'm a lady, it'll give someone else's grade. I sincerely hope that there is no discrimination in our parliament regarding fellow Members of Parliament or any division by any gender division, as we would say in the modern dictionary. Professor Sevarlic has one sincere delusion that he can be an extra-party figure as an MP in parliament, where he entered the list of a political party that has threatened women in this parliament. I wish I had heard in the earlier period of Parliamentarian Ševarlic that he had fenced himself against the policy of violence of the Parliament group of Dveri, who carried out physical violence, but also mentally and verbally and however you will, just the MPs from the group you almost belonged to. That wasn't so long ago. I also showed here the bruises I received from Bosko Obradovic, one of the leaders of that new movement where Djilas, Jeremic, Solak and I don't know who else, but I've never heard of when you separated, the honourable MP from that group, that you're building on the policy of violence that they've been conducting with me. I'm obviously a woman, and if I'm a lady, that's someone else's assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57548	Thank you. The right to the replica now has Professor Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57549	Thank you. How am I not a non-partisan MP, and Mrs Jadranka Jovanovic is a non-partisan MP? How come I'm not a non-partisan MP, and Mr. Lazanski is a non-partisan MP? Either we're not or we are, you make a deal once, you're the majority of the congregation, you can make whatever decision you want. I entered as a non-partisan MP and wrote so on the list and wrote so on the site, from the first day, and then when I was in the Parliament Group of the Dvori, and after leaving the Parliament Group of Dveri. I don't see what's going on here. Secondly, I did not speak in the context of the President of Parliament, but I mentioned the two vice-presidents of Parliament, and I asked what would you do if you were in opposition parliamentary clubs and you were vice presidents instead of the two, how would you feel if you hadn't chaired a single section of the National Assembly in three years? I didn't ask anything else. That is no insult, on the contrary. I was just looking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57550	Thank you. Right on line, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57551	The squirrel Radeta chaired this session once or two sessions in one part, as you define it. Gordana Comic, I don't mind having the presidency, I just think she'd be kicked out of the party if she tried to chair parliament. You must participate in the work of parliament, so that someone will give you an important task of chairing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As an DS MP, she has been trying for several weeks to take active part in the committees of this parliament, in parliamentary delegations, and you see for yourself what happens to her after her independent democratic action. Gilas, somehow through his envoy who named President of the DS and Bosko Obradovic, who I don't know what he is, an extra-party DS, can't understand, then discipline MPs who have the courage to think for a few minutes, half an hour a day, so they decide to participate in parliament's work on their own. If you succeed in encouraging Gordana Comić to participate in the work of the Assembly, not to play so-called "Playing". The boycott of the so-called boycott. The works of our Assembly, I will be very happy to give her a place to chair occasionally, but I don't think that's going to work, because you're politically and financially less influential than Mr. Dragan Gilas, Solak and others who have completely destroyed and devastated the DS. Thanks to the boycott of parliament, DS has been completely erased from Serbia's political scene. Whether that's good or not, I'm leaving the vice president of the National Assembly to consider the next period until the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57552	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57553	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by some policy theory, the political system, it is true, as far as I know, that Mrs. Jadranka and Mr. Lazanski are not members of the SNS, but they are not independent MPs either, they are not party personalities just because they are not party members. They are on the SNS list because they agree with the SNS political programme and are located at the SNS parliamentary club, so they do not act on their own. Now, if you, sir, are on a list of a parliamentary group that accepts as a form of political struggle violence, I am giving myself the right to say that you are the same as them, even though you have not personally committed violence. In such a situation, a man can also say that he was led astray, it happens, to fence and condemn the violence that occurred here in the National Assembly and in front of the building of Pink and in front of RIK. If you don't, I don't see any difference between you, Boška Obradovica and others, absolutely nothing. The fact that you left their parliamentary group, that's one part of the story. But not to condemn all the bad things that happened here in the National Assembly and what can't be a form of political struggle, which is violence, especially violence against someone who can't fight back in an adequate way, is cowardice, and if you want to participate, here, I'm giving you a chance to plead in the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57554	Thank you. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic is entitled to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57555	I expected the previous speaker to say why he wouldn't allow me a replica three times when I had a basis for replication and I was mentioned several times before. Instead, he asks me some questions that go into legal regulation. First, violence is an individual act and each is responsible for his violent actions. I, as I recall, never applied violent acts, and once I was forced out of this room because I introduced a picture of the Blue Grave. The session's been interrupted, and I'm out. The previous session also asked me a question – do I know and do I condemn a professor from a philosophy college who forged, according to the speaker, the number of victims in World War I? Well, wasn't I the one who asked for a minute of silence for 1,250,000 Serbian victims in World War I? So, what did I get? Nothing. You did not want to accept in the Serbian Parliament that with a minute of silence we honor 1,250,000 Serbian victims in World War I. What is this relationship to our ancestors? Is that why we haven't preserved the state they created, that they've shed blood for? I just showed you an example. I'm not going to show the photo on purpose in front of the cameras, but you have Mr. Odalovich's copy of this passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57556	Thank you. The right to a replica has Mrs. Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57557	I wished for these clubs, really, because there's a lot of things that can be heard and answered. I don't remember ever kicking him out. It is his little dictionary seems to be left over from a parliamentary group or a political option that belonged to him until recently. So, you've never been expelled from my side, not by the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially because of the picture of the Blue Grave, which was exhibited here one month last year in the hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you never told the media in your address. You're just saying that you've been kicked out of this room because you've brought a big picture here into parliament, thinking that the introduction of an item of your opinion and, by your choice, is allowed according to the Rules of Procedure or by the internal rules of the Serbian Parliament, and your recent president of the parliamentary group felt that the artistic value had also been placed here in parliament, and, as far as the Dveri Group and you are concerned, it was quite all right to enter the stone, enter the image, enter the glass, etc. If one of us had done so, we would have been on the front pages of the media today dealing only with the conduct of this parliamentary group, the Serbian Progressive Party. As for a minute of silence, it's not nice of you to say that. You yourself know that a minute of silence is determined directly by some tragically completed event, whether it's a collective event, or when someone dies, it's done directly. And what you've suggested, we can't believe that it's done directly and I'm convinced that we victims, without any advertising, without any propaganda, are extremely well respected and marked by every tragic event, and glorious and sad, from our history in the last six or seven years. This cannot be resented by the SNS or by the leadership of this party. Something else happened today about disrespect for the letter. Today, the president of that Democratic Party, if you remember that political group that existed until a few months ago, has humiliated all women MPs here in parliament by holding a press conference and explaining what the Women's Parliamentary Network will do in the future. We know why we founded the Women's Parliamentary Network here in this House. It is an informal political body that brings together MPs from different political parties, in their opinion, whether or not they want us to fight together and fight for a more equal position in our society. But what Lutovac did today, to explain what MPs from the Democratic Party in the Women's Parliamentary Network are going to do, I think it's the greatest humiliation women can experience in politics. We've never experienced it here. No respected male counterpart has done so in this House since we formed the Women's Parliamentary Network, and MPs from the Democratic Party should consider, with the fact that they've been wiped out by Gilas's rubber from political life, how many of them essentially their colleagues from the Democratic Party and that movement, Đilas Jeremic, and I don't know who else, Solak, and of course Jay, would say the popular song, as far as they don't respect them, demean them, that they are men who lead politics, and they will work in the Women's Parliamentary Network according to their dictatorship, and they are there to explain to you who do not boycott the work of parliament what is the essence of their boycott. And that's a shame. And about that, I expected you, Professor Chevarlic, who represent the traditional values of our people and our society, to say something on the subject, because it is a tradition in our society to respect women.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57558	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Professor Miladin Ševarlic has the right to replication, and to add that he and his colleague Arsic really respectably refer to his colleague Ševarlic, without any discrimination, I am sure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57559	Thank you very much. Whether I was expelled from the Assembly with a picture of the Blue Grave or not, there are videos about it, and I hope you can't argue that. Secondly, everything you honor through me to party leaders from the opposition who are not present here, I suggest you all face them, hold a conference afterwards, hold along with them, invite them here, organise public listening, have that opportunity, and, please, clear that up. Don't drag me into interpartial confrontations. I believe that Serbian citizens are the biggest losers, because they have no right neither to be elected, nor to be elected and not voters but only voters of party personnel, including me as a non-party candidate who was proposed on the Dver-DSS coalition list. Because beyond that, it's impossible to be a candidate. And all they decide about is the party's peaks. And that's why I think that Serbian citizens should come to their senses once, pick their best representatives and go out with them on a single list and say goodbye to those who are in one curtsy, in the other one, as they are called in these boulevard lists, and to strengthen the institutions of the state, not party leaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57560	Thank you, Professor. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57561	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament - the dignity of the National Assembly. When someone says - I was elected on the coalition list as a non-partisan candidate, disgusted by parties, likes to mourn Serbian victims, I appreciate that, but let's move in line. As Tito's youngest committee member and member of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, he was not disgusted by the parties. And why am I saying this? For World War I, the party claimed that Serbs waged hegemonistic wars and enslaved all our other peoples and peoples. And behold wonders, where Serbs enslaved all other peoples and peoples, Slovenians, Macedonians, Montenegrins, Bosniaks, only exist where Serbs enslaved them. Come on, tell me, do the Slovenians exist any more in Austria? I doubt it. In Italy? I doubt it. Do Macedonians exist in Greece? I doubt it. Do they exist in Bulgaria? I doubt it. He was a member of the party that claimed that the First World War was hegemonistic and that Serbs enslaved all other peoples and peoples. Decently marked everything about World War I and each year it is marked and we all wear the Raymond we wear to the lapel of every date that is related to these events. Also, this for a group of citizens, that citizens cannot run, is also a violation of dignity. Well, Sasa Radulovic and 15 other MPs entered here as a group of citizens. You stand on the list of Sande Raskovic Ivić who claimed that Storm was a humanitarian action and then you say - I regret Serbs. Why didn't he fence up on it? This is a serious violation of dignity, Mr. Chairman. I'm not asking to vote, but, please, there's little to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57562	Thank you, colleague Rističević, for the suggestions. Maja Gojkovic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57563	I hope everyone heard what Professor Chevarlic said earlier. The honourable messenger does not seem to live in this time in which we live. His biography shows exactly that he was a member of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia and that in this unilateral system, as a member of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, he boasted that he was the youngest council member of the City Assembly. And at the time, Ambassador Ševarlic was not an extraterrestrial figure, but a deeply communist character, right? And now you've come to parliament because you're candidates on a list called Dvori-Democratic Party of Serbia. So, we don't even have a Dveri MP club anymore, we don't have a Democratic Party of Serbia MP club anymore, Bosko Obradovic went to Gilas, this one left his people to get along as well as they can politically, and Sanda Raskovic Ivić also went to Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. You are the only one left to explain to us whether you were on the Dvera and Boška Obradovica quota or whether you were on the DSS quota, Sande Raskovic Ivić, when it comes to asset division, that we know whether you belong to Bosca, as a male part of this political wing, or whether you belong to Sanda Raskovic Ivić, as a female part of this wing. And as a lawyer, I would like to know, professionally, to whom you belong and whose legacy you are then in this political divorce, that is, the disappearance of all the political parties that have entered this House. Indeed, Gilas also succeeded Vuk Jeremic, and those who helped him, to succeed, to erase political parties that were with the help of Serbian citizens, managed to enter parliament here. I'm not going to comment on what's on your curt and murt dictionary. I don't even know what it really means to you, but you'll explain it to you and the fine voters who voted for you, Dever and DSS. Public hearing about gender equality doesn't need to be held. This power, the SNS, the government led by our party and our coalition partners, has brought so much law here into the Assembly on this subject, it just takes all of us to abide by it. The videos, if any, when we asked you to present the great object that you have brought here to parliament, and you will accept that you are not the only art expert, especially painters in our country, and even here in parliament, there are, too, videos thanks to Bosko Obradovic that he broke into the cabinets of the President of Parliament and that he, Marija Janjusevic, once heard of her, and Srdjan Nogo, also once heard of this MP, harassing me and all the time filming and harassing me in my cabinet. In doing so, no one from the cabinet invited them to come, I sat at my desk, and they continued, as these thugs do today in the 21st century when they harass, beat, scolded, insulted, filmed to enjoy it later, and these are the honourable MPs from your parliamentary group, from the list where you were running, working. You've never fenced yourself from it. I will believe in your honesty when you are here, in front of the citizens of Serbia, in direct transmission, saying that you have been building on the politics of Dveri and Bosko Obradovic and the other MPs who have harassed me. Out of party personality? You listed some familiar names of Serbia from a different spectrum of media, cultural, who ran on the SNS list with the name of our party's president, Alexander Vukic. They don't fence from it. They support SNS policy, some are members, but believe me, they have something to be proud of. Professor, don't be mad at us, you have nothing to be proud of, because until a few weeks ago, you've represented the politics of the Davery. They showed here in parliament, while they still existed, that they were just thugs, that they knew they were conducting a policy of harassment, of shagging women involved in politics, of public affairs, of journalism. We've never heard a word of fences from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57564	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The right to a replica has a professor. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57565	I am honored, too, that I did not say the words about the destruction of cooperatives, and I can list at least 50 works from that area and public appearances and everything else. And you, along with the previous regime, have not yet resolved the liquidation of certain cooperatives that went bankrupt, as is the case with the property of the "Belgrade Railway Cooperative". You are hosting an exhibition on "Belgrade on Water" in the Belgrade Co-operation Building. You tolerate taking away the building of the main Alliance of Serbian Agricultural Cooperatives, not just you, but all previous regimes. The building of Serbia's main cooperative alliance on two home numbers, number 13 and 15, on Resavska Street, by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, although it was a cooperative property. So I don't know what time I was in at least 500 cooperatives in Serbia and at least 150 cooperatives abroad. I support the cooperative development programme, regardless of certain objections to the so-called "co-operation". The cooperatives of the second order, but here it is the day before yesterday, the first Saturday of July, International Co-operation Day. No one, no word from anyone about cooperatives, and that was an ideal reason to promote that activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57566	Thank you, Professor. I listened carefully to Mrs. Gojkovic, she really didn't mention cooperatives at any time. You've been completely out of the picture, but good. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57567	Please, Article 198(2) tells us that the MP resigns in writing to the President of the National Assembly through the Office of the National Assembly, which immediately delivers to the MPs and the committee of directors. The MP shall be convened at the meeting of the committee responsible for examining his resignation. The committee responsible shall consider the reasons for the end of the term of office of the Members of Parliament before the end of time, to which it has been elected, and shall report to the National Assembly, with a proposal for the National Assembly to establish the end of the term of office of the Members of Parliament. I suggest that MPs who are now in the O.R. assist you, Professor Chevarlic, to comply with the provisions of Article 198, because I don't think you are able to carry out the duty of a MP anymore. Now, you take this video from a moment ago, so look what we talked about and what it has to do with the cooperatives that you mentioned to my discussion about gender equality. And I invite you to meet the requirements of Article 198, to come down, to resign, to consider it, and to make you really no longer an MP and not to have these dilemmas about whether you should have run for Bosko Obradovic or not. Are you some extra-party person who would win 5%, then cross the census and go into parliament alone or go in along with someone else who understands these discussions at all, out of the clear peace of some kind of cooperatives, I think that we will show our collegiation, and you will take great care of yourself from the door so that you will no longer be in this assembly of parliament, because you think that we are party people, and that Serbian citizens do not know what they are doing when they go to the elections and round up the list of MPs with a clear political programme. I think that we can also help you to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 198, because only in that sense can I understand what Professor Chevarlic was saying earlier, and that is that he has had enough of everything to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57568	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Maya Gojkovic: Yes. Yes, thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, Marijan Risticevic, damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57569	Yes, Mr. Chairman, Articles 106 and 107. We have a violation of dignity, and it's harsh. I delivered the video to you that Mr. Ševarlic, who was Tito's youngest councilman, when he received Christianity and Orthodoxism, wished that as a Serb host society, he would celebrate Vidovdan, all in the folk's costume. So, my dear Serbian hosts, you who mourn defeat in Kosovo, you who mourn much for Emperor Lazarus and other Kosovo heroes, should know that that day is the day of some newly-compromised Serbian Orthodox who celebrate that day. Right here, it's all delivered. Last time it was said that I was lying, however, that video exists deposited on the National Assembly site and we can all know what anyone said when they said it. Also, it was a violation of the dignity and insult of all citizens, for it is said, that citizens are wise. I think our citizens are smart enough, that they are smart enough to separate the wheat from the weeds themselves and to think for themselves what years the Chamber of Commerce took the facilities of the Association of Serbia. It will be very easy for you to get the information that it happened long before 2012, in time, it seems to me, Minister Jeftic, or I don't know who, but mostly far before 2012, the Association, by the will of the yellow former regime, lost those facilities, or they have passed into the ownership of the Chamber of Commerce. Now, cooperativeship is being talked about by someone who has taken 60 and some thousand euros for a study of cooperatives. I keep asking to be in a thousand copies of the press, deposited in the Ministry of Agriculture, I keep looking for this study on cooperativery, to see how it's written, did someone criticise that cooperatives had disappeared before 2012, some of them disappear and today, what the Society's assets have disappeared, I think all for that 62,000-euro money. I guess someone wrote about when and how the cooperatives and their property were gone. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57570	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I think we're way off topic here, starting on cooperatives. He's got a word for it, Professor. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57571	I would like to thank the president of the National Assembly for offering to help me prepare my resignation papers at the National Assembly. I'll do it right behind her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57572	Thank you, Professor. Let's get on with the work. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57573	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a proposal from the Finance Committee concerning the candidate for the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. First, I must point out that the Committee on Finance in one transparent and law-based way has held a conversation with three candidates and, on the basis of the score, on the basis of the test of expertise and training, as well as on the basis of the interview, has chosen all three candidates and on the basis of the points established, of course, as the SNS always does, the best candidate, this is Mersih Markovic, or the Committee on Finance, to propose to the National Assembly that this candidate be elected as a member of the Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures. For this candidate, it also states that it owns the work experience needed to appoint a member of the Commission, but also that it has completed master's studies and has defended master's work on the subject of "Corruption in Public Procurement", which certainly indicates that this candidate also has additional knowledge and skills in the area of recognising corruption in public procurement procedures. I must point out that last year's commission, as the Committee has already stated in its report, has made 1,094 decisions, and what has been noted, is that the time for decision-making is reduced in cases, which is also important, and that the number of complaints made by this commission is reduced, and this also indicates that the quality of work and efficiency of this commission is increased. Also, this proposal shows that the Finance Committee has raised the scale in the selection of proposed candidates, and of course shows that it is another one, that the Assembly Committee is in charge, and that we are as MPs of the National Assembly and that we are responsible for overseeing and controlling the work of this Commission. Public procurement is also important, above all, from the point of view of preventing corruption. In 2012, the Serbian Progressive Party, through its campaign, was then entrusted by citizens with a huge trust and how it worked to adopt amendments and supplement of the Public Procurement Act. Why? Because Verica Barac still pointed out that through public procurement, there are tremendous malfeasances. Also, according to the European Union's 2012 report, every quarter of the public procurement went into private pockets, and we know who managed Serbia by 2012, it is the yellow tycoon, robbery and theft business of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Jeremic and these others in different yellow aggregates. What I still have to point out is that in ten years, this robbery company has sickened Serbia and Serbia's citizens by 100 billion euros. Only in the privatisation process not according to our estimates, but according to the estimates of an American institute, 51.4 billion euros were taken out of the country. This is an example of total haughtiness and total pushing into the poverty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of how this tycoon company filled its own pockets. At the time, it was a rule for tycoons to pass the law, and politicians to enforce it. They conducted tenders through public procurement procedures so that tenders had a disqualifying character compared to all those who were not their partner group and their partner companies and thus prevented competition and the registration of all those interested bidders that would lead through greater competition, of course, to a more favourable price. They were not interested in a more favourable price for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they were only interested in the prices of their own installation, which are likely to be measured by 10, 20, 30%, etc. I will now set an example of the cyber theft of Dragan Gilas in the city of Belgrade during 2009, and the purchase of software is worth 10m euros. Namely, the purpose of this purchase and purchase of this software was to connect all the city's public enterprises with the city's administration, and why connect them? In order to monitor the financial flows of money, to monitor the state and public procurement and to know at any moment what money is available. Of course, this was to be done by one click and everything was to be transparent and visible. Dragan Djilas and his associates from society and Tadic and Jeremic and Obradovic and these others, I don't even know their names, nor do they fit transparency and visibility in state business. It was appropriate for them to be visible on television shows, and for what they put in their own pockets to be invisible. So they actually gave 10m euros, and that software was not even put into service during their government at all. I also want to list the containers for which Dragan Gilas has given 6.8m euros in Belgrade. Of course, that's not what he gave, it's what the city of Belgrade gave, it's what the citizens of Belgrade gave, and, of course, these containers, and based on the opinion of the experts, are absolutely not responding to their purpose. That doesn't interest Dragan Gilas and his friends either, because he was never interested in Serbian citizens, but only his own pockets. What Dragan Gilas certainly owns, and what the other one he calls doesn't, is a diploma for Serbia's robbery and theft and Serbian citizens. This is what SNS is fighting against, and that's its policy of fighting robbery, against corruption, that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have recognised, and that's why trust gives responsible, hardworking, hardworking and discipline to those who work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57574	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Public procurement is certainly an issue that is of interest to the public, and therefore also for the MPs. We heard in the morning part of the debate about this concrete proposal and generally about the law, i.e. the public procurement itself. The truth is also what was heard by the government's deputies that public procurement was wound cancer by 2012, that there were indeed major problems, major abuses, and that there was great damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget due to corruption and abuse in public procurement. In the campaign before the first coming to power, the Serbian Progressive Party claimed exactly what I just said, but also that they would pass the Law on Public Procurement and then they were specifically saying how much money they would be, they were some billions, I don't know how much money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, they would be saved when the new law was passed and when the new law was applied. What happened in the meantime? It happened that in 2012, the Law was passed, that this Law had started to apply, I think about 1 April 2013, a single provision at the end of 2013, so in any case from 1 April 2013, the application of the new law and, based on what was said during the campaign for the construction and adoption of the law, it was logical to expect that this law would indeed contribute to public procurement being very different from before. Of course, no one could have expected that so-called. Zero tolerance for corruption, and today we hear it from both members of the government and these days and whenever it is spoken of, as well as from all government officials, which, of course, is not close to the truth. What should also be said is that the so much praised law that was passed in 2012, has been changed twice in 2015, and that fact itself says that, in the opinion of those who passed it, the law has been pheleric, that it should have been complemented, that something has changed, etc. There's nothing better in the meantime. This law, as it is said here, no one has any objections to this law, we are not talking about the law today, we, within this point, which is perfectly logical, are talking about the application of the law, and the application of the law says that this law is being misused, that this law remains a source of corruption. The solution to this yet another member of this committee that we are talking about today will certainly not solve this problem, the problem is much deeper and much more serious. Before I say something a little bit wider, in general about public procurement, I'll also say a few sentences about a proposal for a member of this Republic's Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Today we are being explained here the process of selecting members of that Republic Commission and here there have been really very interesting views and thinking. What is absolutely unacceptable, as far as we are concerned in the SRS, Mr Mircic as our authorised representative spoke in detail about it, I will only remind myself of a few things, first of all, nothing new is likely to say, but the formation as standing here in the explanation, and we heard it from the authorised representative that the committee on a proposal from the working group set out the principles for conducting the test of candidates and at the 77th session of 13 June just prior to the test was set before the test for the candidate for the selection of members of the Republic Commission. The test of the candidates took place on the same day, in so many hours, etc. It's less important, but it's important something else, who are the members of the Commission... Now I don't mean by any single name, but in general, who are the members of the Commission who have been determining questions and who have been checking the knowledge of the candidates in this significant state function? Since it has ceased to apply ZUR and since it has ceased to exist self-government socialism, it has not happened that anyone in any test can be checked by people who do not have at least the same expertise, the same qualifications as those whose knowledge is being verified. We, in this case, didn't have it and it's just amazing that some candidates who met the conditions for a member of this Republic Election Commission, that their knowledge was being checked by people who are not at all from the profession, who don't have the same degree of education, and especially because they're not even close to the profession of those people, or those conditions that are necessary for the members of this Republic Commission. That's what we're concerned about, because all three candidates have both licenses and certificates to work in public procurement, and isn't that enough? Who's the one who's gonna check it out? Someone who has never worked in public procurement will be a member, or a member of a commission who checks out someone who has a certificate for public procurement. It would be much more honest and honest if you said you were proposing your candidate, because you have the highest confidence in that candidate, because you trust that candidate. That is only correct, in the SRS' view, because that is only possible, everything else is hypocritical. It is hypocritical to say that any function is chosen by people who are approximately unknown to the parties and are not in the parties, but someone has concluded that they are the best in the world. Who should take care of public procurement and make as little damage to the budget as possible in implementing the Public Procurement Act? The government of the Republic of Serbia? Who's forming the government? The one who won the most votes in the last election. In whom will the government and the National Assembly, which controls the government, have the highest confidence? People he knows, who are, above all, professional. So it's basic that it's about professional people, and then that they have to, that it's normal for them to be people of trust with the ruling parties. Everything else is a farce and everything else is a hypocrite. We always fight it, and we always tell you openly that we will never mind that you as a government say that you put it in a certain function because it's someone you stand behind, because it's someone close to this party or that party, the government or it's a party member. I don't know why, through this kind of procedure and through this kind of debate that we've had, and today, simply, it's a question of party membership as if they were lepers? No, we think, on the contrary, that every party should work as much in the public as possible, and in this National Assembly, and in the media, which is allowed and on the ground that as many people as possible are gathered into their own party and that from as many people as possible can choose people to all functions, above all I tell people who are professional and educated and trained for certain functions, that they can choose such people to do part of the state's work, or every part of their part of the state's work. This is actually a summary of what we heard in the first part of the debate. Don't convince us anymore. I'm telling you, someone who has a license and a certificate for public procurement, and meets all the conditions in the education system that this law provides, can't be controversial in any other sense, and you who choose it will know and know whether it's an honest person, whether it's a person who isn't prone to corruption, whether it's a person who can be entrusted with such an important job. It's your responsibility. You will choose those people. Just because you tried to explain to us how someone was the best, so he was chosen, I will also get to know the public who will be watching us tonight about three, that candidates for a member of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures Mersih Markovic, Vladimir Stanic and Dragana Stankovic. All three of these people meet absolutely the conditions laid down by the law in professional terms, in educational terms, in terms of working and obtaining licences and certificates for public procurement. Don't convince us now that Mrs. Mersicha Markovic... Here today, a colleague said they didn't matter as much as the results of that test, and they were tested by people who know, logically, so, no offense to these people, they know some other jobs, but they know this less than the ones they've tested, and then they say it's important and what they're going to make of it. It's really unserious and it would be much better if you were to say it completely -- that's our candidate, we put it to the vote, because it has to be formally done, as the president of the Parliament and the Prime Minister and so on. It's all something that has formally to go through a democratic procedure, but what really is the government's proposals and it's perfectly normal for someone who's won as many votes as this current ruling coalition has won. Even if it's less, so 126 is a magic number in the National Assembly that can do anything, but don't just, please, make a farce of what's prescribed by both the Rules of Procedure and the Law before that, but tell us, we'll discuss it. If we had such a proposal with such an explanation, we wouldn't even mention these names. We always tell you every time, whoever you choose, it's your responsibility. As you can see, we're not involved with our proposals. We did it once when the chosen Protector of the Citizens was elected. We had a candidate who had more and better references than the elected Protector of Citizens, and we saw in that case that these references are not criteria, they are not important, but it is important that which you choose, and that is why we no longer want to harass people to provide documentation, etc. to be re-elected the one you wanted. Imagine, just as touching Mrs Mersih Markovic says - at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia site, I found a public competition for a member of this commission. Well, don't, people, really. She found it on the site, checked in and got here, so we could vote for it. (Alexander Martinovic: Why not? ) Mr. Martinovic, does that look like a possibility to you? (Alexandra Tomic: All people can report to the competition. ) Don’t, please, we’re serious people and I talk very seriously, as you can see, on this subject. I just want to get some things cleaned up, that's all. We heard here during the debate from the authorities when it comes to public procurement that, minors, there are no problems. Everything is done in accordance with the law, and small purchases and large purchases and tenders. No, it's all honey and milk, roses bloom, and then we remember, a dozen days ago we had a DRI report here. One of the basic and first remarks in the DRI report was that a large number of purchases were made without transparent access. We also had a Report of the Fiscal Council and one of the basic and first remarks of the Fiscal Council is that a large number of public procurements are being made without the principles laid down in the law of tender, public publication, etc. We also had a report from the Competition Protection Commission. Same objections to public procurement. You may have thought, since we haven't discussed these reports so far, that it won't happen again, but your European friends made you put it on the agenda, so, well, we were able to hear all these so-called representatives. independent bodies and we heard objections to the application of the Public Procurement Act. It's said here that none of us who talked about this, none of us from the opposition, and we were actually just talking about us from the SRS, that we didn't make any objections to the law or to the law. Here, we may not be, but I will remind you that the Public Procurement Strategy provides for a new law, which means this law is not good. Veroljub Arsic: Come on! Milorad Mircic: Who said that? ) Ana Brnabic said, if you know who it is, as far as I know, it is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, we must work on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, because this law, this law, does not allow us to work effectively and to get the best services for Serbia and its citizens at the lowest prices, Ana Brnabic. At least you have to respect this one. For example, in 2016 alone, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Vendors made 1,370 decisions under the requirements for the protection of the rights laid down in this law, i.e. because of violations of the Public Procurement Act. So, from 1,370 decisions, it's partially invalidated 656 procedures, half. Half of the proceedings are partly not in accordance with the law, and 126 has been annulled in general, so it was completely past the law. The state audit institution says, in 2015, 27.9% of public procurement is related to certain violations, not in accordance with the law. If anyone knows, it's the ones we quote. In one report in 2015, e.g. only one person has been convicted of malfeasance in public procurement, and in 2016 seven for abuse, with only one person being sentenced to prison, and these others being subject to parole, although one quarter in 2015 public procurement has not been carried out regularly. So these are all the reports of the authorities. We're not making anything up. In 2015, say 32 people were reported for malfeasance and abuse in public procurement, but only one person was convicted. In 2016 21 persons were reported, seven were convicted, two prisons, five parolees. What does this tell you? This says that people are totally non-chalant, relaxed when it comes to public procurement, because it's obvious that these abuses will not cost anyone more seriously, or that no one will respond, so that it indicates that no one has to, exactly or no one, when I say no one, but those who are otherwise prone to corruption can behave in such a way that they do, because the consequence, as I have stated in some cases, is not. There is also data, since this law is related to compliance with EU fluids and since this law is related to the opening of a already closed interim chapter, it found that money laundering and rigging are the most common form of corruption in Serbia, particularly in Nis. The Competition Protection Commission has initiated seven procedures under this law and there are no consequences and nothing has happened. So the best example of this particular analysis is the best example that shows what we've been saying for years, not to you, but to those before you, how many so-called. ‘regulatory bodies’, so-called ‘regulatory bodies’, so-called ‘regulatory bodies’, "independent bodies" is actually without purpose because the one who makes the essential rule does not listen to them, does not pay attention, does not pay attention, does what it does. What problems does public procurement have in local self-government? That's what all the people who live outside Belgrade and the others who live in Belgrade, who walk around, who know what's going on in the field. We spoke here, and not only did we and the media write on a wide scale, let's say problems with public procurement regarding the procurement of lighting for New Year's, for Belgrade. Well, those problems with that famous tree for Belgrade. You know that there were only one bidder, and then getting a vehicle for the MUP, and then what we're here is Minister Sarčević who knows how many times they said, buying software for an electronic diary, where only one bidder also appeared, and that's what happens in everyone, where there are public tenders. The conditions are such that only the people would say there is no photo that, yes, yes, someone to whom this job will be assigned. When we told Mr. Sarčević - what do you need electronic journals for when schools don't have Internet? He says - it's not true they have. Here, I repeat now that in dozens of schools in Belgrade during the summer the Internet is being introduced and imagine, it will only have one line and in shifts of twenty teachers will be able to use only one internet connection. And so far, what are they doing? They write on paper and then someone takes home or something, and that's how the data gets back into that electronic log. And there is a special story about what this Croatian firm did to us and why they got the job and why they were the only bidders. That's exactly the example where we proved then that the tender was such that no one else could compete. This is, for example, a tender for the destruction of mosquitoes. There are all the details that we could specify exactly how tenders were made, so only a particular person could get that tender. Well, then, the famous acquisition of KBC in Nis, supply without a tender. Huge amounts of money, modern devices, wonderful, excellent that they came, but they had to come through public procurement. In the end, I guess the most famous one we talked about was Bechtel. Bechtel, which will take 800m euros from the budget for a job that is worth 500m euros in real value and that will get a job without public procurement. We've been told here recently who can claim that Bechtel will get the job? I'm asking now, who says they won't? Well, I'll see you in a while. Also, the problem with public procurement is that these are reportedly the most favourable bidders. The most favourable are the lowest price, and then some new jobs, some new circumstances, and then the annexes, and then the initial price is much higher than the one agreed. That's exactly the problem that doesn't really reflect real tenders and in a real tender doesn't mean that the best bidder is the one who gives the lowest price. There are various conditions that the bidder must meet in order for the commission to choose him to do a certain job. You see, then, there's a lot of trouble. Now, will Mrs. Mersih Markovic, with her presence in this commission, contribute to solving these problems or at least to affect positively, if so, it would be really good. We repeat, we have nothing against this candidate, as we would not have against any of these three, Vladimir Stanic, Mersiha Markovic and Dragan Stankovic. We've seen here formally that they meet the conditions. Even though you couldn't, you questioned their knowledge. This is truly amazing, my colleague Mircic mentioned from some of the old times the situation when the created commissions with the people who finished the trade, who were checking the trainees, who were checking and determining whether the traineeship had been passed by someone who was an engineer. It just doesn't work. We don't have anything against other professions, people who don't know what to do, but it just doesn't work. Imagine now a judicial exam is being examined by lawyers from these professional schools with a third degree. It doesn't work, it wouldn't be possible for a professional exam in any area, for a doctor's expert exam to be questioned by nurses, not going. And it's not going to be this committee of ours, it's our colleagues I have nothing against, who know certain jobs, who do certain jobs well, but they just weren't qualified to question these candidates, and so I say, as far as we're concerned, you can choose any of these three candidates. Maybe it's a good thing that she told her colleague Tomic that the first time that they did, and their results coincided with the Commission's position after those interviews, it's something modern, you talk to someone, and you figure out whether they meet the conditions, and the conditions are exact, there's nothing to talk about. To apply for this place, you need it, that, that, bring that evidence, and then, here you go, or you really want to vote for each individual, or you want, which is your right and what we support, that you propose to your candidate, vote for him and that you are responsible for public procurement together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57576	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57577	Dear chairman, respected colleagues, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, first, I have a few things to say. Here it is trying to impose a theme that this is actually a political proposal, that the competition was conducted by a working group, or commission, that the MPs were questioning candidates, which is not, of course, true. First, the questions being prepared for written testing for the secretary of the board in co-operation with the Public Procurement Department. Public procurement services are people who deal with this topic. Together, they have 100 questions that come from the three laws, we said: Public procurement law, the Law on bond relations and the Law on administrative procedure. So, the secretary signs a statement under which material and criminal responsibility he is required to keep a business secret that concerns these issues. So, no MP, no board member, no commission knows what the issues are. All he knows is that there are 100 questions, 100 numbers, of which 100, we, as a committee of auctions, come to 42, which get half an hour before the test is passed. The commission you're saying is not a commission, but a working group of five MPs, you know who, our colleagues, and they're in charge of reviewing the application of the candidates for the competition, so they're determining whether they've met all the conditions of the competition, whether they've submitted adequate documentation, whether they can even access the exam. They determine, therefore, whether the candidates have had valid documentation, then, carry out a practical laying process. So, not even the task force, the MPs conducting the written test, or testing, know no questions. It's their job to participate and watch as the candidates take this written test, is it all right in the sense that any literature is being used, whether the deadline, start and end of the test itself, fill in, is there any chance that there are any consultations between candidates, because we used to have examples that 10, 15, the candidate is running for, say, two, three places. Now we have one seat for three candidates. From what we've had the opportunity to hear, we should let all the candidates pass and then choose on the basis of a certain interview or a certain sighting of us some proposal for this feast. Our idea was that expertise would get real support. Based on that, the first preliminary part of our test is this written test. When they come and get results based on the professional service that examined it, the working group defines the candidate list according to the number of points won by each candidate. With that report, they're coming to the Finance Committee. Only then on the Finance Committee are virtually interviewed orally by all candidates, starting with one who has the highest number to one who has the smallest number. Since 2016, it has always been the principle that the highest number of points that candidates have practically been proposals for candidates for members of the Commission for the Protection of Offerers in the procurement process. So, when we talk about the procedure being implemented, it is being implemented in a decade according to this order, from the constitution of this call for parliament, from the constitution of this call for the Committee on Budgets, Finance and the control of the spending of public funds. Therefore, the public competition is in fact a mechanism based on which all those who wish to answer a specific call to a particular institution for a job if you have an adequate professional arrangement, or if you respect what are called conditions for competition. Whether anyone has seen a competition on the site or in the list "Politika" or in the "Official Messenger", however, has the right to submit the documentation. It is the task force that says whether the conditions are met that you are even participating in the public competition. And that is why we needed our colleagues, whether they are on the Finance Committee or on any other committee, to have this principle of work for other committees as well, for example, some committees are also elected through a public competition. That's why we're having a conversation today about professional training being evaluated based on the expert evaluation of the people who did the test. So they were made by members and people who are employed by the Public Procurement Office. He did not make Veroljub Arsic, nor Prof. Mijatovic, none of the MPs. Secondly, our people who come from here from the Assembly, from the board's secretariats, are lawyers with a state exam, too, who, along with people who are also licensed, passed state-run examinations from the Public Procurement Authority did that test. So, because of the public, I'm saying this, so you don't get the impression that they're making MPs and judging people who have licenses in this area. It's simply not true and it's simply a procedure that's been established since three years ago. And according to this procedure, the next candidates will certainly be elected. On this basis, their training, their professional training and their activities for a minimum of three years, and these are the candidates who have been doing this job in the profession for five to eight years, who have simply run and reported to this competition. We have had opportunities to talk to candidates who have also done this job, but have not been adequately trained to work in the field of public procurement when we talk about the commission itself. And when they came to talk to the board members, they were never asked if they knew exactly the member of that law and that law. That's not what we talked to them about. We ask them how they see their participation, how they see the work of the commission itself, since they are running for the place and how they see that they would possibly improve the work of the institution by their participation. That's our question. And secondly, our questions concern specific laws that apply daily to the work of this commission, do they think that we as MPs could help with certain amendments and additions to the law to make many things better when it comes to public procurement. Therefore, I think that this principle and the mechanism of functioning candidates' choices for members of this committee is extremely professional, extremely defined by certain procedures, and that it is best shown because it is now giving better and better results. When you look at, from 2016 and 2018, the comparative data means, how many cases have been reported, you will see that there are fewer and fewer cases that apply to the Commission itself. From 2016 he was 1826, until 2018 he fell to 1500 items. When you see the number of cases solved since 2016 was close to 2000 and in 2018 in 1519. So, based on these results, it's showing that the efficiency of the commission itself is getting bigger and bigger and better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57578	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57579	By the way, that procedure was even during the first competition. The Joint Procurement Administration shall prepare questions and answers, this same Administration shall issue and certifications on the fulfilment of the conditions for someone to conduct the procurement procedure. Let's get this straight. We just technically forward the questions to the candidates, and that's where our work ends and we make sure there's no harm to the proceedings. I cannot understand whether having a certain number of complaints against the Commission for the Protection of Rights and which solves these complaints means that the law is wrong. I think the law is good, because as soon as someone writes the complaint, it means that there is a legal framework that needs to be implemented and if the Commission considers that the complaint is established, it abolishes or partially abolishs the procurement process. I guess that's the point, first, of the law, to regulate one area, and the second purpose of the Commission itself is to watch how the law is implemented, or whether all the conditions are met. It's whether the law is good or bad time shows. It was true that the laws had been amended twice, immediately after its entry into force. Both were to comply with EU directives that then came into force and I see nothing wrong with that. Now someone will say -- why are you doing this, why are we harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation? To expand, download monopoly lists with certain bidders and allow all bidders to participate, whether they are from Serbia or not. What else was that? Yeah, about the strategy. Each time the Law on Public Procurement is adopted, a new strategy on the improvement of the law is established and is planned when its amendments and additions will be made. Only a crazy man could say that in such a law you can solve everything for all time. Life goes on, and we have to adapt our legislation to the laws. (President: Thank you. I'm finishing up, my colleague Marinkovic. Third, the law clearly defines the conditions of discrimination when offering. Anything the law allows for a public procurement procedure to be suspended before tenders are collected. Now the other thing is that the right doesn't want to benefit the bidders.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57580	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57581	I don't think I'm a crazy man, but okay. I don't understand why you have a problem, first I'm talking to my colleague Tomic, with you admitting that this is all politics. You say - we're trying to turn this into politics. I really don't want to cause replicas. In the morning we had enough discussion about it, but we're MPs, this is the National Assembly, this is all politics and it can't be any different and there's no reason to hide behind something else. I know that fellow Arsic is emotionally bound to this law and here, Mr. Arsic, is a good law. Public procurement confuses foreigners, says Ana Brnabic. It says – foreign businessmen, investors operating in Serbia are seriously disturbed by the incomplete application of the Public Procurement Act, as it makes it difficult for a fair competition. The Prime Minister also says that the incomplete implementation of the law is not only an obstacle to Nordic companies, but also to the whole economy in Serbia, especially the state administration. According to her, the problem is that in public procurement, as basic criteria, it takes the price, which is absolutely not prescribed. The full application of the law, Ana Brnabic says, also interferes with companies applying in tenders only to stop public procurement and to blackmail other companies that have applied. The prime minister pointed out that certain public procurement processes for such things take months and more than a year and we need to find a way to make this process more efficient and transparent. At this point, we are looking for the best way to address these problems, the government's commitment, concluded Mrs Ana Brnabic, the introduction of EU standards, especially in the field of public procurement and subsidies, is important because of the efficiency of the Serbian economy, but also as a sign to potential investors. If you have a replica, please contact Ana Brnabić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57582	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57583	You know, it's not always the problem with the law. The problem always arises with those who enforce the law, not just those who oversee the application of the law. That's unfortunately in this case, too. Not as scary and dramatic as anyone wants to present. It is true that there is a number of companies involved in public procurement procedures. In order to withdraw their offer, they blackmail other suppliers to pay them or a certain part of the money so as not to file complaints, objections and thus delay the procurement process. However, in the public procurement law itself, there is also the possibility that the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in cases of such cases and where complaints are unfounded, leads from the same person several times, as a first-degree body, to criminal proceedings, to impose fines and to prohibit participation by that legal person and that bidder for a certain period of time participation in any public procurement procedure. It's something I've tried to force the Commission to do the job on several occasions. They've always been justified that they're too busy dealing with complaints, but I still don't think it was any way, in any way dramatic that we could say about it that the law wasn't good. Maybe it's not the best, we don't have a better one right now. Maybe it's not the most effective, effective we've never had before. This is currently the best Public Procurement Act, not only in Serbia, but in the entire region.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57584	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57585	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, when we talk about the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures, it represents an independent body that makes sure that public procurement is properly implemented and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Public procurement has its essence, which is that all public authorities, organisations, institutions or other legal entities considered as suppliers of goods, services or public works and finance taxpayers' money, are obliged to come to these goods or services by public procurement in a way that will prevent abuses and allow the most favourable conditions. All types of public procurement are carried out, i.e. published in the “Official Messenger” and on the portal of public procurement. In short, they are transparent and available to all interested parties and declare the principle of equality of the tenderers. without discrimination, as well as the principle of economicity and efficiency of the use of public funds. Simplified, public procurement obliges you to make sure that what you get and make available that all those who meet the conditions you set in the competition can come to that competition and that the most favourable offer must be selected. Because of the Law on Public Procurement, the actions were reduced, people said, I to you, you to me, and it was introduced neither by grandmother nor by uncles, or may the most favourable get a job, but that is not a feature to Dragan Gilas. The man's a problem, because if he's law-abiding he can't make any money, he can't set up his partners and then what's the point? He was not in power to receive citizens and solve their problems, because we read in the media that he boasted when someone met him on the street and asked – Mayor, when I could come to you for reception, answered – never. He raped himself, and he thinks he's in charge, so he's going into the realisation of his intentions, to eventually secure himself financially, which he finally succeeded. The result of that resolution is numerous affairs in charge of the city with about a billion euros. To be clear, to get money out of the budget, he had to do something in the city to cover himself, or to have cover, and most of what he did was not serving anything, like. These famous containers, whose malfeasance over the tender, damaged the state by 169m, and its setting alone cost sixm euros, with their soon rotted out and had to be replaced by a new one, which also cost citizens. The "Pazl City" for children, an assembly facility without any permits, absolutely insecure, works from three to four months and has become a mockery and a drug lordship, costing 350,000 euros. Let's say, a replica of The Terrace in New Belgrade. The project invested 72m euros for construction, plus 40m euros for maintenance. The replica was never open and never worked, never finished, and the facility was illegally connected to the electrical grid. In the end, she served the tenants of nearby buildings to take their dogs out to make an emergency. This is just a small part of all the affairs in which Dragan Gilas conducted the public procurement and performance procedure in an illegal manner. Some of his associates who were directly involved in these malfeasances and signed certain documents were processed, but not Dragan Gilas. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the previous debate on the choice of judges and prosecutors, there is a concern, and there is also an impression in the public that the remains of DS working in the judicial system are favoured by representatives of the former regime. The public is justifiably wondering when Dragan Gilas will be responsible for all the malfeasances through which he got rich and impoverished the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57586	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57587	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, public procurement from 2012 to today, thanks to the people who conducted these public procurements, have given the citizens their faith in the state of Serbia and the belief that in Serbia it can be done in a way that what is being carried out, that the purchases that have been made, are simply in the interest of the Serbian citizens themselves. This session will certainly be completed by a vote and I am certainly one of the MPs who will support this proposal. Among other things, this session will also vote on newly appointed prosecutors, i.e. deputies who will be elected to the post for the first time, and I would like to call on these prosecutors to help protect citizens from those who do not comply with the Public Procurement Act. It is one of the problems of public procurement that apply them and the way certain city administrations, municipal administrations or public enterprises are currently implementing and implementing the Public Procurement Act. Just washing money and setting up a tender, setting up public procurement, are the trademark of the city administration in Šapec and I expect that exactly in accordance with the law, those who do not conduct public procurement are just being rewarded in the right way, which is to be processed and to be charged in accordance with the Law and the criminal acts they have done. If someone makes a public procurement in Šapec, and only one bidder appears in that public procurement, it should be a warning that something is wrong with that public procurement. If we are witnessing that just on July 7th, just two days ago, right in the town of Šapac in Janko Veseinović, there were no human casualties, and we are talking about public procurement, precisely economic efficiency that is being conducted in the town of Šapac, 60 objects had public procurement, but this very efficiency applies primarily to the pumping of money from the budget, and not only from the budget, but also from the citizens of Šapac, because it was in that building that every apartment paid on average, or all tenants paid according to the size of the apartment, but on average about 70,000 dinars, and they welcomed the wind to take off the facade from the residential building, which only shows that these public procurements were not made according to the law. Of course, that's not all. The one who wanted to conduct public procurement is exactly the public housing company Stan. The director of the public housing company is, according to the teacher's profession, an honor to the profession, but why and how the teacher can carry out public procurement of the public housing company "Stan" and be a longtime director, and only because the directors of public enterprises in Šapec are the most variable functions and are probably world champions in the changes of the directors of public enterprises. There is no session of the city's administration without changing any director exclusively the settlement of the political agreement, so she is the teacher of the public housing company Stan. The supervision of 60 buildings, or 60 housing buildings that have just carried out the economic efficiency of building isolation has not been done either, nor will it be in accordance with the Law, but the problem is that they have not done surveillance because they have not allocated funds in the budget, because they needed precisely for things that are not in the interests of the citizens, which I hope, according to the criminal report that I filed this morning in the General Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office will prove and prove. What's also a problem is, among other things, action towards those who have not implemented public procurement. Remind me, Mayor Zelenovic for the 2015 budget and this budget, which was misused for the amount of 598,920,000 dinars, and in that report, DRI found that, among other things, 29.7.000,000 more spent approved adproprations, 89,000,000 without credible documentation, 31,000,000 without contract or any other written act, the mayor abused 2015, 42,000,000 without public procurement. If the law had been applied and that it had just been when the DRI found and filed a criminal report to the General Public Prosecutor's Office that the mayor had just been arrested, that he could not influence witnesses, that he could not influence the experts, that he could not influence the judges, then they would not come into the situation that the public procurements carried out in Šapco would not be in accordance with the law and would not come into the situation of the isolation done on the residential building in 2016. That they have a public procurement to build a sports hall where only one bidder called, that they have another public procurement where one bidder calls and gets a job, gets funds, takes pictures in 2016 before the elections, starts works, and after that, there's nothing from that hall, I'm talking about Obrenovac. But let's not talk about this sad town anymore, thanks to the sad city administration and the mayor. On the other hand, we have public procurement that showed that there are lights at the end of the tunnel, that this state can and is just acting in accordance with the law. Public procurement is transparent. The commission that we are talking about in the most transparent way is choosing its members and in accordance with this, I call on both colleagues who want and who know that the choice is in line with the interests of Serbian citizens, which they vote on tomorrow's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57588	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. The word is Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57589	I thank the chairman. All public procurement procedures in Serbia will be conducted exclusively electronically from half of 2020, through a new public procurement portal. Experiences from other countries show that electronic communications in public procurement can be one of the means to combat corruption, the possibility of manipulation by documents being sent by bidders is diminished by checking fully submitted documents in the tender. Currently, there is electronic availability of plans, electronic access to documentation and public procurement, which includes an invitation to submit tenders and competition documents, publication of a decision to award a contract, notice of a concluded contract and decision to amend the contract on the public procurement portal. A portal implementing all public procurement in Serbia, including local self-government, was established in 2009, and modernised in 2013, with SNS headed by Serbia. The most frequent irregularities in the procurement process are detected in all three stages of public procurement, planning, implementation of procedures, execution of contracts. A good example of the practice of irregular procurement is the installation of underground containers in Belgrade during Dragan Gilas, who left 1.1 billion dinars behind to the capital, but knew that he paid sixm euros for the purchase and setting of containers, which had serious technical disadvantages whose quality was catastrophic. Sam's tender was the subject of malfeasance. The Belgrade citizens can't forget the so-called. "Pazl Grad", a Banjic playroom built in 2009 at a time when the town of Voždovac was ruled by DS and which in a very short time turned into a house of horrors and horrors. Also the "Terroria" Park in Block 42, another mockery for which Gilas and his yellow company were in charge. Based on his leader, the former president of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, Milojic, conducted tenders that filled the pockets of individuals and seconded his municipality's budget for four billion dinars. The annual budget of the municipality was 800 million. In five months from the city's fuel accounts, President Milojic has singled out 3,200,933 dinars, which is understandable, as municipal cars have spent 400 litres of fuel per day. In 2013, he signed a contract with a private utility company, which is not strange, but this contract was concluded for as long as 25 years. The municipality has committed to paying more than 30 million dinars a year for these jobs. On this list is the president of the Municipality of Parachin, so-called Paracynic despot. Thanks to the way she handled it, she became synonym for affairs, conflicts of interest, violence, and boastful behavior. At the expense of the municipality's budget, a small company has benefited from public procurement of as much as 2m euros, although when it was founded it had no employees. The question is how could a company that didn't have a single employee win public procurement and get jobs that were called by public companies operating within the Paracino municipality. Paracino municipality president criticises our President Alexander Vukic not to let him hire workers, so he spent over 100 million dinars on the so-called. Lysing labour. The list of malfeasances is much longer, but I hope that the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is to work by law and get in the way of these malversions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57590	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57591	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I didn't expect this topic to take this kind of attention, and that's good. It is good to talk about everything openly, transparently and as a member of the Finance Committee, I can tell you that it is my pleasure to choose and propose as a proposal, a candidate with the best results. I would not much like to talk about it, because much more in the process and the choice itself, said counterpart Aleksandra Tomic and counterpart Arsic. Also, I would like to express my satisfaction that I am one of my colleagues from 2012 Arsic and that I voted in favour of such a law, a good, quality law. Nothing is forever, so that law has not been brought into all points, come on, for most of the time. My colleague Arsic himself said that we had two amendments and amendments to the law, so let's have a third. It just says that we do, that we create, that we want to do something better, something better than those who were before us, where, with this law and this commission, some other laws should be respected. I would refer to only one example from the relatively close past, in 2011, it is that famous project carried out by the Slovenian company "Nuba Invest", which is the laying of optical cables. A project for which no public competition has ever been called, a public call from the ministry, by the environment ministry. A project where not only the respected and then the Law on Public Procurement, but also the Law on Telecommunications, but also the Law on Spatial Planning, where nothing was known and where the job was obtained by a company that had an employee and founding capital of 3,000 euros in Serbia at that time, and one Telecom could not even compete, even to come to do something that is a national treasure. There's a natural wealth and there's a national fortune. National wealth is precisely these optical cables, i.e. these optical connections, or cable sewers, because this is something the state has, and this is both strategic and military and police very important. It is in all our important corridors, meaning on the highways, on all our border exits towards Hungary, and towards Croatia, and down towards Macedonia, that the job was obtained by the company without any competition, without any public procurement, where no one could even complain, a company that had one employee and 3,000 euros, as I said, of the founding act, and even had no license to deal with the business of telecommunications. Isn't it huge progress since 2012 so far? Yes, and you can see that. We want it to be bigger and, so I don't owe it because there's more colleagues and colleagues behind me, I'm gonna end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57592	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57593	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, above all congratulations and recognition to the members of the committee responsible on the proposal that is before us today, because I will take into account, of course, all the strict rules that concern the choice of candidates, but taking into account the importance of the subject of public procurement that we are talking about today. When we talk about public procurement in Serbia, they can always be seen and this topic can always be viewed from two sides as something that represents and is related to the development and progress of society, but on the other hand very often something that is related to corruption and the backdrop of society in general. Unfortunately, in Serbia, the topic of public procurement in recent decades has been linked to something called corruption, illegality, secular and dishonest actions of political structures in the Republic of Serbia. Why is it so, I think we can even have understanding taking into account everything that happened in the largest part of 2012 and the examples for that is enough, here are the Belgraders, many times mentioned and mentioned building a bridge on Ada, where the bridge of some 900 metres was worth 500m euros. A similar price, of course, was built by some bridges in Europe, but the difference is very important and the difference is that these bridges in Europe were much longer. For example, a bridge in France nearly three kilometers long cost, i.e. The cost of construction was 400m, and a 900m bridge in Belgrade cost 500m euros. There are a lot of these examples, a similar example is the construction of a hospital in Kamenica, Kamenica two in Novi Sad where at the beginning, during the design of Kamenica 2, the cost of construction was planned for some 19m euros in 2008. Unfortunately, the hospital was not even completed by 2016, and the final value of the project was as much as 35m euros. For the tragedy to be greater, it is likely that even a lot of lives in Vojvodina have been lost, people waiting for treatment at the Kamenica Two Hospital, which is certainly a greater loss than those famous 16m euros that disappeared in the construction of Kamenica two. I think it is precisely because of these and similar jobs that the concept of public procurement of associations to corruption and some kind of illegality in the Republic of Serbia is clear. It was precisely because of these jobs that we lost important infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia, with no roads built, no factories built, no railways built and all other important things in the Republic of Serbia. However, there have been other jobs, and above all they are related to increasing the balance on the accounts of today's opposition leaders, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas and others alike. When you ask Dragan Gilas today how there was an increase in balance in their accounts, how millions of euros were found in their accounts, they tell you it was from the businesses they were doing in the Czech Republic. When you ask again the Czech tax authorities how they made that money in the Czech Republic, they answer you that that money was not earned there, at least it wasn't earned in some familiar way. Then you come to the conclusion, and it doesn't take much wisdom to conclude that that money is earned in some kind of illegal way somewhere. And that's somewhere in these public procurements on these two examples I've been talking about, and many other similar examples, and when it comes to the bridge, and when it comes to Kamenica 2, and when it comes to Heterland and many other projects, and when it comes to machination, in the end, on RTS, which is a very current topic in all of Serbia these days. Therefore, unfortunately, it is clear that the way and process of restoring confidence in the public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia is very difficult. This trust is slowly beginning to return from 2012, especially since 2014, when we are getting a new Public Procurement Act. Then, as a consequence of the savings resulting from the application of such a law, we have the construction of infrastructure in Serbia and all the important projects that are either completed or are under way today in Serbia. I think that this proposal from the committee in charge is somewhere on the verge of a return of confidence in the public procurement system. I say once again, we recognize the members of the committee responsible who have come forward with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57594	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word is Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57595	The President-in-Office, Law on Public Procurement "The Official Messenger" 124 of 2012, 14 of 2015 and 68 of 2015, found that "the presidents and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures were elected and resolved by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for Finance and after a public competition. "How important it is that professional people come to the head of this Commission, people who will work to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and budget funds are legally spent and public procurement is properly implemented, the following examples tell us. In my further presentation, I will refer to three municipalities in Serbia that do not spend their citizens' resources in accordance with the law and regulations governing public procurement. The municipalities in Serbia are Sabac, Parachin and Old Town. The mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic's work will be answered by the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the town of Sapcu. The Supreme Court in Sapac abolished the first-degree verdict by Zelenovic, who is also the leader of the party Together for Serbia, freed responsibility for the non-intentional spending of about fivem euros by the citizens of Serbia. The indictment against him is based on a report by the State Auditing Institution which identified a large number of irregularities available to the Sabbath budget. Paracino municipality has become known throughout Serbia for numerous affairs. Local authorities and municipalities involving themselves, as well as President Sasa Paunovic, have contributed that public procurement has not been implemented in accordance with the law. A small company in Paracino made public purchases of as much as 2m euros, although when it was founded it did not have even one employee. The company won tenders that are being explored by public enterprises operating within the Paracino municipality. How is it possible that a company that didn't have a single employee performs works obtained in a tender, such as street asphalting, sidewalk construction, and contracts are signed with the Paracino Community Construction Directorate? The same Paunovic, president of the Paracin municipality, criticised President Aleksandar Vukic for not allowing him to hire workers, and spent 100 million on so-called. The cost of licking the workforce. As for Bastac, the president of the Old Town, who fights physically and with traffic signs, these days we read in the paper that this arrogant president spent 121 million contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Besides the law, another 89 million has been spent, and two million and slightly more has been spent on mobile phones alone. Nine million were spent on cafes, and nine million were spent on propaganda material, while 29 million dinars were paid for video surveillance. There's work for the Public Procurement Commission, for the State Audit Institute, and, of course, for the Prosecutor's Office. In the voting day, I call on all my fellow Members to accept the proposal of the Finance Committee for the election of the President and the members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57596	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57597	Thank you, Chairman. For me, by 2012, public procurement, is synonym - corruption, crime. And what was going on? Well, everything about public procurement went through godfathers, family ties, friends. General disaster. They've devastated this country, we already know that. We owe, thanks to them, 24 billion euros. Only the city, thanks to Gilas, owes 1.2 billion. He's beheaded this town. On the back of the people is rich. He made a career on the back of this people. Shame on him. Then, in 2008, 400,000 people were fired. Unemployed 26%. Gilas left Belgrade with affairs, failed projects. Let's see his biggest affair. The biggest affair is the Ada Bridge, which costs 400m euros. So 400m euros, 0.9km long. The same times three, the longest and highest in the world, the bridge in France, costs just as much. Which means 250 million gone missing, who knows where. Well, we know where he is -- at the richest, at Gilas's. Other affairs. The underground containers. It was supposed to be a global scale project, and it turned out to be a complete fiasco, only sixm euros were missing. Non-transparency regarding Bus Plus, there are no transparent public procurements, a city at a minus. Let's move on, cut the canvas. No transparency, no money. The budget of Mr., the private pockets of DOS and Mr. Gilas are being filled. Now let's see what happened in one of the most beautiful municipalities in the Vozdovac municipality. They made the so-called. ‘Pazl Castle’. It was supposed to be a wonderful place to entertain our children, 350 million cost that failed project, never got a building permit, a useful value, never, and it's located at the intersection of the busiest roads, insecurely, without toilet knots, terrible one. No single day worked, and 350m euros untraceable disappeared. Realistically, the real value would be between 10 and 50,000 euros, with all the toilet knots. There wasn't that either. So 300 million gone. Let's move on. What happened to Terrasia Park, too, replica? Seventy-two million, that mockery. Now they say -- they clean up our communals, because there's a nest of snakes, rats and everything else, there's going to be an incredibly beautiful bus stop, 72 million for that plus 40 million for maintenance, a total of 112 million. There isn't. Now let's see what Serbia says today, the internet portal, as far as DS authorities are concerned. Unfortunately, I don't know what's wrong with these people there and what Mr. Sasa Paunovic is doing. He says – Sasa Paunović is still at the head of the Municipality of Paracin, not for long, and under his auspices there are various malversions in the municipality. The Paracin municipality, thanks to the way it is handled by "loyal pockets" and local public officials, has become a synonym for affairs, conflicts of interest, violence and arrogant behaviour of the narrow circle of people who co-operate with the president of Sasa Paunovic municipality. Of course, and there goes every public procurement, or woman or sister-in-law or godfather, in this story there's everything, so complete family ties. According to the data we have come to, says the portal "Serbia Today" – The Association of Citizens "By Heart for Our City", you may think, competed twice for the same competition for the lease of workers of the Municipality of Paracin, i.e. for the purchase of social protection services, help in the home, and the council of Paracin Goran Kotačić in both documents delivered to the Municipality of Paracin was also signed as chairman of the Founding Assembly of the Association of Citizens "The Heart for Our City". Goran Kotačić, who is a member of the council in Paracin municipality at the same time, found himself in a conflict of interest because the Citizens' Association "Heart for our City", where he was signed as chairman of the founding assembly of the Citizens' Association "Heart for Our City", sent an application to this municipal competition. Let's move on. One of the affairs that the portal "Serbia" also states today is that the current director of the Paracin Municipality's Directorate for Construction, Aleksandar Milojkovic, while he was the director of "Vodovoda, sewerage and gasification" gave a warrant for digging a well worth 10.2m dinars, in which there is no water. There's no water, there's no water. That well never worked, and there's no money. Also, there's an empty hole left, probably to fill up with their money. One in a series of affairs in Paracina also included Putotechna Doo, whose owner according to APR data, Aleksandar Ljubinić, won public procurements that explore public enterprises operating within the Paracin municipality, 248 million dinars. The ‘Putotechna’ was founded in 15.1.2014 and until 2016, it had no employees. The same Putotechna, however, in 2015, when it had no employees, received public procurement worth 50 million dinars. A year later, Putotechna starts getting employees. Imagine. In the APR, Putotechna was registered as a company with limited social responsibility, and in public procurement it was contracted for the construction of sidewalks, road construction, rural streets, football fields, etc. I guess whoever built it knows who put up the money. There are many examples of corruption by 2012. Thank God the SNS comes to power and in 2013, we passed the Public Procurement Act, just to stand in the way of corruption, crime, and since then, our GDP is growing, the economy is different, to build roads, railways, to hire people. Today in 2019, 11% are unemployed, with a tendency to make that number in a few years 5%. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57598	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you are, colleague Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57599	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have been on the field of public procurement all day long, I will be talking about those procedures that mean violation of the Public Procurement Act, and the consequences of such behaviour, of course, suffer local self-government and citizens. It's about Belgrade. One of the biggest affairs that involved violating the Public Procurement Act is related to the Bus Plus system, which is still being used today. The head of Belgrade was then Dragan Gilas. The job was awarded to Apeks listener technologji after a half-public competition whose conditions had been thrown out, as many as 50 companies from the competition. Another affair that went through Belgrade City's administration referred to promotional services. In 2008, the company "Advans Salesksn" was given 68 million dinars. By half of 2012, the city of Belgrade had allocated 270 million dinars for promotional services, and most of them were set aside for the production of emissions that, of course, promoted the city's power. The government in Belgrade, run by Dragan Gilas, bought a software package in 2009 that cost almost 10m euros. You'll agree that the number is huge. What's particularly interesting is the fact that this software package has never actually been used. This kind of government has created major problems of financial nature for the city of Belgrade, so as the final and biggest affair in the media, it is in fact saying that the city is in debt for enormous amounts of money and the city of Belgrade is estimated to be in charge of more than 900m euros, one of which is part of the city's debt, and the other part is a debt of public enterprises. Another affair that was current took place in the Old Town municipality. Namely, the management of the municipality, headed by Bastac, and as we can see from the writing of the media, spent nearly a million dinars in expensive cafes. The budget inspection found that the money was spent without the public procurement procedure being carried out. Spending budgets in an illegal manner is the best confirmation of what Marko Bastac and Dragan Gilas advocated and what is the policy of the Freedom and Justice Party. According to their policy, all other political parties were also treated by SNS council members when they were expelled from the Old Town Municipality Assembly. What more do you say about the people who are the leaders of a city municipality, who are boasting, publicly, by blocking works? Bastic says - we saved the Square of the Republic and Toplica's wreath with blockades, and his boss, Gilas, also publicly praises him. Says – Marko has shown how he is really fighting for the key thing in politics, etc. It's all published on Twitter, June 21st. Now, these are, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, their values. Sadly, the example is much and much time would be needed to talk about everything. Let us not forget the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, the acquisition of the tramway, the construction of the bridge on Ada, the purchase of underground containers, the reconstruction of the “Tashmajdan” stadium, etc. I note that some of these participants in the affairs have been processed. But it seems to me from everything I have stated and from all the allegations from the media that there is more than enough material to examine illicit actions and actions that are not in accordance with the law, because it is, after all, all the money of Serbian citizens and they have the right to know that this money is available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57600	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57601	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, public procurement is directly related to corruption, that is, corruption is a violation of the law, in this case the Public Procurement Act and the acquisition of illegal property benefits. This brings us all to Dragan Gilas, which has been said enough in the debate so far, and more than a few colleagues. If you are interested, the chairman, why are Gilas's MPs not present at today's session, I can tell you – how do I expect Gilas to support anti-corruption measures, when everyone knows that he has become rich, precisely through corruption. Corruption and monopoly. In Gilas' vision of Serbia, corruption is likely to be legal and legal. Fortunately, Serbia today is not Gilas's Serbia, when it was just corruption, crime, monopoly, but is a country where laws are respected. He knows it very well, too, and that's why he's been so nervous lately. On the very mention of investigating his corruption affairs he suddenly became so nervous, immediately began to savagely, to lead the hunt against Neboja Stefanovic, to run some pointless campaigns. What exactly is this about? In this way he wants to actually draw attention from the corruption investigation mentioned, an investigation that apparently upset him so much. Now the question arises – why run away from the investigation? What's with the anxiety? Why fear if he's as clean as he claims? Then, the extraction of the subjects of some who have already been told a hundred times, convinced, who have been on the agenda a hundred times, doesn't matter what has already been proven many times, doesn't matter that all commissions in charge have come forward, doesn't matter what is often confirmed by all relevant institutions. Never mind, make up an affair, organize a campaign, we've got media. Right? They have "N1", they have this TV, they have the newspaper, they have "Today", they have "Nin", they have "Time", and we're going to be there all day to spin that same story. All that, just so you don't talk about Gilas' affairs. Just to avoid these topics, just to make sure the citizens forget about the affair as someone said almost from the speakers of the previous ones – by the underground containers, only to forget about the affair of "Pazl City", to forget about the "Bus Plus" affair, to forget about the affair of the Bulevar King Alexander's reconstruction, to forget about the affair of buying Spanish trams, to forget about the "Bus Plus" affair, to forget about the "Heterland" and "Heterland" and Sutan's pasture and Jeremic's millions from that Patrick Hoa, to forget about the 400,000 fired people, hundreds and hundreds of extinguished factories and businesses, all the robbery privatisations, to forget about the disastrous reform of the judiciary, the destroyed army, the criminal police, to forget about what we were state and society had no hope and faith in the future. Well, citizens, they won't forget it and it'll show you very soon in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57602	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57603	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the SNS Group, Mr Martinovic, I am speaking to you tonight, as you are, in these late evening hours, the only president of the parliamentary group in this high house. Honorable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia in protest over the discovery of the bandit and horrifying and after the country of the devastating policy of Vuk Jeremic, one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds, in a transcript of talks between advisers Milo Djukanovic, Milan Rocen and Vuk Jeremic, in which these two lepers, I quote, fuck the mother of Serbia-Montenegro, completed a quote, horrified and shocked by these findings, giving up tonight's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57604	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Although, we'll miss your longer discussion as we're used to. He's got a word for it. Vladimir Orilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is absolutely impossible to talk about the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, and not to look more closely at the case referred to by Mrs. Zaric Kovacevic, who directly concerns the issues of public procurement in the case of the introduction of the Bus-plus system, of course, by Gilas Dragan, the famous yellow tycoon and his subordinated ensemble. At the moment they introduced the Bus Plus System, they did so, to record, by the rules they themselves made, not by law and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The law existed then, could be applied, however, they concluded that it was much more comfortable for them to apply those rules they had made themselves and they didn't hide it. Therefore, it is quite true that the profits were allocated to a particular firm and that by defining these rules in a way that all other companies would absolutely fall out of the process. He was talking here today about taking care of the Cyrillic letter. Dragan Gilas has taken great care of himself. He made complete documentation for the job in Serbian, Cyrillic. He said it was an international job to be announced in international votes. He announced it on one site, in "The Official Messenger", exclusively in Serbian, and asked everyone to come to take over the file in person, it is on Serbian surrender. He didn't want to hear that any deadline was being moved, that someone who eventually came from any other country and was not informed in advance of this job and this documentation could participate, because it was a clear goal to assign this job to the person to whom Gilas Dragan had assigned it. That's right, of course it was. In the end, there was only one, the only company that, if he loves Dragan Gilas, is left to deal with the issues of the foundations and development of companies that deal with anything in this world and their investments. This one company was, of course, formed fictitically and had one total capital of 500. Whether it's about dinars or Euros, it's absolutely no different. Anyway, that job went like that. There wasn't a Law on Public-private Partnerships, he didn't want Gilas to wait for him, and this one on public procurement wouldn't apply. Among other things, what does that mean, since we're talking about a commission that needs to protect someone's rights? If the Public Procurement Act were applied, the Commission could challenge the entire undertaking. Since this law has not been applied, no one, absolutely no one could to this extent and this naked corrupt work challenge. That's why it happened to be done with those who got the chance to get a fantastic 8.57% profit in their pocket. With whom anyone else has shared it should be the subject of the interest of investigative authorities interested in Gilas Dragan, as you well know, among other things, and those famous resales of seconds to RTS. In any case, Gilas Dragan was hypocritical enough and then, as every time, to show up at Olije Bećković and say – well, we adopted the lowest possible offer. When he has one single offer to say a sentence - we've adopted the lowest possible offer, everything tells you about the nature and character of that man. That's not what we in SNS say, it's in a report made by the Gilas BIRNs, the KRIKs, I don't know what these people are called and published in 2012. When this comes from the mouth of the people who are Gilas' obedients and his camp, then you realize that the truth is not only that, but it can only be in many mountains. What are the consequences of acting like this? This is seen in the case of the fate of city transport in Belgrade, and this is again said by his BIRNs, KRIKs and others, whatever their name is. They say so - we ended up with such a high-quality transport that we had 390 out of traffic on a daily basis, because the rolling stock was in habite condition. Gilas then shared private transporters, on whom today something terrible complains, although today we have public-private partnerships regulated by law, and this is all done by strictly controlled rules. Today, Gilas says – no, it is placed in someone's pockets when financed by private carriers. That's when he ruined GSP Gilas's funding, and that's a lot of private carriers. How much? That's also what his bureaus say, the CRIKs, and other miracles. Every two billion that went to the GSP from the city's budget went to another two and a half billion in the same zone, in which the GSP worked, and in the second zone, where there was no GSP, went to every two billion and a half to two private carriers. Why? Because a different city couldn't even work and no one cared how much money was going on what basis, not just for the planned donations, but for what was being honored. On each planned two and a half billion, four billion private carriers were paid again by Dragan Gilas, who said the whole Bus-plus is being introduced because, under one, they need to reduce the cost of functioning, under two, for people to be satisfied, to pay better cards because they are more satisfied. When we talk about the effects, then, not only are the effects that 50% more went to private transporters, but before that, they bought that transport, but people were so happy because they were beaten by controllers and the municipal militia as it looked in Gilas' time, which was really a real private army, that every possible charge dropped, because people no longer wanted to pay the tickets. Both the GSP and the city of Belgrade were horrified, and most of all, Gilas himself. When he faces these things, which are republished by his BIRNs and CRIKs and BIRODI, what will Dragan Gilas say, will he provide any rational response to this data? No, I don't. Do you know what he will tell you, he will tell his errand boy Bosko Obradovic – now run there, spit on this man and tell him you're not doing well with the diploma, and Gilas himself will turn around and hang on to his media – the late Verica Barać is jeopardizing my prejudication of innocence and it is a complete relationship to any serious topic. What Vuk Jeremic with that sweet laugh, with that zigzag and scream, explained that all worked together both Serbia-Montenegro, these things are very well seen. Specially worked by Dragan Gilas and the city of Belgrade, but it will never deprive them of the obligation to answer questions about where 500 million were in your pockets at the same time as 500,000 people in this country were left without bread crumbs. The great gentlemen who thinks he's some terrible elite, which claims through these bureaus, whatever you think of yourself, you won't run away from these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-09-0.u57606	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Since we have carried out a single search, and since no amendments have been submitted to the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, in the voting day, decide on a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights on Public Procurement Procedures in general. According to Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, July 10th, 2019, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 13th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the same time, I would like to inform you that the twenty-fiveth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session will begin immediately after the vote on the agenda of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
