ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-14-0.u51802	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending MPs: Mladen Grujic, Djordje Milicevic, Daniela Stojadinovic, Danica Bukvic and Milisav Petronijevic. We continue our work and move on to a decision on the proposals for the acts referred to in points 1 to 40 of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I am concluding the vote and I realize that no one has voted in favour of this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one voted in favour of this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one voted in favour of this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, in general, Finalising the vote: for – 141, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted, not one MP. I find that the Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 140 against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – seven. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – eight. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – four. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – two. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – five. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to the 12th vote submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Slavica Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 15 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 32, which was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting amendments to article 33 submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Natasa Mihailović Vacic and Slavica Zivkovic. Finalising vote: for – seven. No amendment accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of an education and education system. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Finalizing vote: for -one. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4, with the correction submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 11, with an amendment, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 11, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote, with the correction submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – no one, abstentioned – one. I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards has been adopted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Literature Society, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find the bill accepted, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Literature Society, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Literature Society. I'm putting the bill on amending the Arms and Ammunition Act in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find the bill accepted, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1, with an amendment, submitted by the People's MP, Verice Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: for – three, and I realize that it is not accepted. I put to the vote the bill amending the Law on arms and ammunition in general. I conclude the vote: for - 140 MPs, and I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on radiation and nuclear safety and security, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139 MPs, against – no one, abstention – one, and I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 4, with the correction of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I would like to put to the vote a proposal from the Proposer proposing the feedback of the provisions of Articles 3 and 4. It's a bill of law. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one, and I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Articles 3 and 4. It's a bill of law. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one, and I find that the Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of its publication. I now put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on radiation and nuclear safety and security, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on radiation and nuclear safety and security. We're moving on to ratifications. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention establishing the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community on the seat of the Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs, in principle. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one, and I find that the Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community on the seat of the Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill, in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on co-operation in the fight against crime, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international road crossing of Gostun (Republic of Serbia) – Dobrakovo (Montenegro), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international road crossing of the caves (Republic of Serbia) – Dračenavac (Montenegro), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the opening of a common border crossing between the Republic of Serbia – Cemera (Montenegro) for international road traffic in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro on the regulation of border traffic regimes, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the opening of the common border crossing of Godovo (Republic of Serbia) – Vuca (Montenegro) for international road traffic, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international railway border crossing of Prepolje (Republic of Serbia) – Vrbnica - Bijelo Polje (Montenegro), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international road crossing of the Apple (Republic of Serbia)-Rance (Montenegro), in general. I conclude the vote: for -141, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the United States of America on extradition. I conclude the vote: for - 136, against - no one, abstention - one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official/special passports. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, abstention - one. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on the abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel on mutual assistance in customs matters. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Canada on air traffic. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty Development of River Transport Infrastructure in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Finalizing vote: for - 139. I find that the Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention relating to safety and health in agriculture. I conclude the vote: for - 140, against - no one, abstention - one. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on co-operation in the field of plant health and plant quarantine. I conclude the vote: for - 138, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I understand we've passed the bill. We move to a decision-making decision under the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. Finalizing vote: for - 139. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of a judge elected for the first time in office, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of a judge who is first elected to the judge's office, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139. I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Grand Court in Kragujevac, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 138, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted. Let me congratulate Mr. Ivan Nikolic on his reelection, we wish him success in his work. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the Securities Commission as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the Assembly has adopted, most of the votes, a motion for a decision. We move to a decision on a list of candidates for members of the National Council for Culture. The candidates proposed by the government, I remind you that they are Dusan Kovacevic, a graduate dramatologist, Nikola Suica, a doctor of art, Djorđe Djuric, professor of general history and Svetislav Bozic, composer. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dusan Kovacevic, a graduate dramatologist as a member of the National Council for Culture. I conclude the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has chosen as a member of the National Council for Culture Dusan Kovacevic. I would like to put the motion to be elected as a member of the National Council for Culture by Nicole Shuic, a doctor of Fine Arts. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Cultural Council has chosen Nikola Shuic. I would like to put the motion to elect Đorđe Đuric, professor of general history as a member of the National Council for Culture. Finalising vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Gjorge Djuric, professor of general history. I would like to put the motion on vote for the National Council for Culture to be elected by Svetislav Christmas, composer. Finalising vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen as a member of the National Council for Culture of the Holy Christmas. We move on to the list of candidates who have been proposed by cultural institutions whose founders are the Republic, the Autonomous province and the local self-government unit. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Dragan Kovacic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Museum in Belgrade. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that she has not been elected a member of the National Cultural Council, Dr Dragana Kovacic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vesna Basic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Museum in Belgrade. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I don't think we've made a choice for a member of the National Cultural Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Aleksandar Stamatovic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Theatre in Belgrade. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find he has not been elected a member of the National Cultural Council Aleksandar Stamatovic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Nebojsa Dugalic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on the proposal of the National Theatre in Belgrade. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find he hasn't been elected a member of the National Cultural Council. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Dragan Milunovic, a National Library of Serbia, as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Bogdan Opačić as a member of the National Council for Culture, on a proposal from the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Bojana Subasic as a member of the National Council for Culture, on a proposal from the Institute for the Study of Cultural Development. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Now we move on to candidates who have proposed representative associations, taking care of the representation of all profiles. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dusko Paunkovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I would like to put the motion to elect Zivorad Idačić as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to elect Dusan Rusalic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the three abstentions. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Ilic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to elect Srdjan Hoffman as a member of the National Cultural Council. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to elect Vladimir Logunov as a member of the National Cultural Council. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I find that we have not elected members of the National Cultural Council of this category. The following candidates proposed by associations in the area of protection of cultural heritage. I am putting the motion to elect Alexa Ciganovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Biljana Djordjevic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. We are now moving on to candidates proposed by the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. I remind you that the candidates proposed by the Serbian Academy: academician Predrag Piper, academician Tibor Varadi, academician Ivan Jevtic and correspondent SANU Miodrag Markovic. Since the proposed four candidates, two have been elected as a member of the National Cultural Council. I'm putting on a motion to elect an academic named Predrag Piper as a member of the National Cultural Council. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly did not elect an academic named Predrag Piper as a member of the National Cultural Council. I would like to put a vote on a proposal to elect academicist Tibor Varadi as a member of the National Cultural Council. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has chosen as a member of the National Council for Culture of the Academy of Tibor Varadi. I am putting the motion to elect academic Ivan Jevtic as a member of the National Cultural Council. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect a letter member of SANU Miodrag Markovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has elected a member of the National Council for Culture of the Letter Member SANU Miodrag Markovic. The candidate proposed by the Council of Art I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr Oliver Stojadinovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The candidate proposed by the Serbian University Conference is Cedomir Vasic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Cedomir Vasic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Cultural Council has chosen Nikola Shuic. Candidates to the National Minority Councils proposal. I remind you that the candidates proposed by this proposal: Karolj Vicek, Vassija Gusinac, Miroslav Jovicin and Vesna Milekic. I am putting the motion to elect Vassija Gusinac as a member of the National Council for Culture. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Miroslav Jovicin as a member of the National Council for Culture. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vesna Milekic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Since we have finished voting on all candidates for members of the National Council for Culture, allow me to, on your own and personal behalf, congratulate those who have been elected to this significant and prestigious place, and wish them a lot of success in the work. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Bon appétit. Thank you. (The session is over at 11:15 p.m. )
