ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64127	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, here, you spent a lot of time yesterday convincing us that this is some kind of development budget. Some say developmental, some say pre-election. It may be both, but what's perfectly safe is that the budget is bad. It's bad, first of all, because you're not even correcting with this budget the enormous injustice you've done to the pensioners and you're not returning what you took from them against the constitution. I heard that yesterday, or the day before yesterday, from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who was in response to questions from the head of the SRS parliamentary group, why we are dealing with the return of property that was seized 70 or 80 years ago, and they are not returning pensions that you took away from pensioners during the previous years, she said it was a question of property. So I guess the apartments are property, and pensions aren't property, and that's another interpretation like how the real name of pensioner was actually acquired, and that pension height had nothing to do with anything, which just isn't true. Pensions are property and pensions are acquired property. It's something that's earned and you can never accept your position that pensioners depend on someone's goodwill or depending on how much money they have in the budget and then they have to settle for it. So, as you invest in securities of value, so some people or someone invested in real estate, some made contributions, worked 40, individuals and more than 40 years, had a job experience, to live decently at age. I told you the last time we had a discussion about budget rebalancing, you took pensioners about one full pension a month. But I have to admit that I made a mistake here, and it's actually a much worse thing, because when you take concrete data, then it's obvious that you've taken much, much more than that. Here, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to listen very carefully, so if you can deny any of the specific information I'm about to provide. You started with these reductions in the anti-constitutional law that you passed at the end of 2014 and the reduction started from 11 months 2014. I've now made a budget, i.e. I got it from the PIO Fund, what it looks like for a pension reduction of 50,000. So, if it was 50,000 dinars before pension cuts, it was 44,200 dinars, which means 5,800 per month is reduced. And it's been since 11 months 2014, which ended with the 11th month of 2015, and it's been taken away from every pensioner on that basis, I'm talking about a pension of 50,000, it's been taken away 75,405 dinars against the law and against the constitution. Furthermore, since 12 months 2015, 1.25% of pensions have been increased, so that the reduced pension amounted to 44,668 dinars, an increase of 468 dinars, although what you reduced was 5,800. In that period, therefore, from 12 months 2015 to 11 months 2016, you totalled the pensioners 71,475 dinars. From 12 months 2016 again 1.5% increase, so the reduced pension amounted to 45,338 dinars and you paid less from 12 months 2016 to 11 months 2017. On the 12th month of 2017, you coordinate and add 5%. At that time, the reduced pension is 47,605,72 dinars and this means that 63,478,60 dinars were reduced from 30.9.2018. This when you add up by age, Mr. Minister, means that the total pension reduction before your anti-constitutional law is 50,000 dinars, the total reduction is 282.888.14 dinars. It's, Mr. Mali, in 47 months of applying the anti-constitutional law on what you called a temporary payment. This is not about a temporary payment, because it can't be called by a payment when you owe someone 100 dinars, so pay him 90 instead of 100 dinars, but it's about taking away what the pensioners have earned from their work over a long period of time. You averaged those 47 months to a pensioner, who had a pension before your law of 50,000 dinars, took 6,018 dinars and 89 pairs. When it turns into a euro, it's 51 euros and 44 euros a month. So, on a monthly basis, you took so much from a pensioner who has 50,000 dinar pensions. I took that as some middle value. For those of you who have had fewer pensions you have taken, of course, in absolute terms somewhat less. For those who have bigger pensions, it's understood, you've taken even more, but you can see that these are huge funds. This means only one base. So, just for the downsizing, which was direct, and there are two other grounds by which you robbed the pensioners, which I didn't count here. The first base is a marriage-stricken interest. When pensioners owe the state, whether it's electricity, whether it's water, whether it's tax, it's legally tightened interest, and that's what the rule is. The second basis, which is also not included here, and by which you also robbed pensioners, is the fact that there was no obligation in accordance with the law that existed until then, which is that pensions are adjusted twice a year in line with GDP growth and inflation that was in that period. If you'd done that, then you'd have to pay the pensioners a lot more, a lot more money, and it's clear that you can't escape from this debt. By keeping your mouth shut, by pretending to Tosha and saying that the pensioners voted, apparently, for you in the next election, so that later you approved what you did, doesn't mean anything. You know, and that 99% of the pensioners did it, 1% is not and you're obliged to pay off everything they've done under the law. I would only ask, Mr. Arsic, one break to take, since the Minister of Honor is on the phone and I don't want to bother him, and I would really like him to hear my discussion and answer me. I've been working on concrete data, and I'd ask the minister for information, and I believe that I have the right to do this, to make a reckoning and deliver this to all the MPs, but, unlike what I've done, it counts and legally tightened interest for every month for the amount of pensions paid less and to count and how much pensions would it have been if there hadn't been a suspension... (President: Bring the end, colleague Sarovic. I'm finishing this sentence. ... that you have not avoided increasing pensions by harmonising them with GDP growth and inflation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64128	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64129	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, I have just received the clagworth to return to Dragan Gilas and remind you that the public finances of the Republic of Serbia have been standing since 2008 by 2012. That's what I was talking about yesterday. So, not only did the public debt rise from 8.7 to 17.7 billion euros by the end of 2012, but Dragan Gilas and the former government also left us a deficit for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. So, budget deficit, budget gap, not empty cash register, but minus. When you add that minus, that minus is 748.9 billion dinars. At that price, it is 7.6 billion euros at the time. Seven comas of six billion euros, while Dragan Gilas made 619m euros in his companies, paid himself 105m euros. There's also an answer, Your Honor, to your question of where the pensions are. There, pensions went to the irresponsible economic policy that the previous government conducted, to a huge increase in public debt, a huge deficit, negative growth rates, and on the other hand, the enormous wealth of Dragan Gilas and his associates. In 2014, we launched heavy, responsible fiscal consolidation reforms. Big, maybe most of those reforms were filed by our oldest citizens. Once again, thank you very much for that, they understood the state's state, the state they left us with, and with their support, we came to this day that, after only four or five years, we have fully stable public finances and we are also talking about an increase in wages, we are also talking about increasing pensions. Since January 1st, the increase in pensions per Swiss formula, completely fine, of 5.4%, stable finance, pensions on time, stable growth is projected, will grow year by year, as well as wages. Together with them, through this budget, we make better Serbia, Serbia that will be a better and better place to live for our children. That's your answer, Your Honor. Remember, once again, in 2013, all these debts, obligations, and, I say, 7.6 billion euros of the shortages that we had to pay back, which Dragan Gilas and his associates left us, but with great gratitude to our pensioners, we have paid one-time aid this year from the surplus, from the money we have saved. So, serious economic policy, an economic policy that represents a stable basis for further growth, the development of our economy, of course, and a better standard of living, especially for our children that we all fight for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64130	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64131	Mr. Minister, believe me, I'm not interested in the pensioners, nor am I interested in Dragan Gilas. If you think that in the last five years, from 2014 to 2019, you will take huge money away from the pensioners by the authority of Dragan Gilas by 2012, you are very wrong. What you say – thank you, pensioners, for putting up with the greatest burden of reform, you hang that cat on the tail. I tell you, on behalf of my parents, who are pensioners, they don't care about your thank you. Give them back the money they made fairly and made their pensions. I believe it is an opinion shared by 99% of pensioners in Serbia. What do they have from your demagogy and from your thank you? So let's see, Mr. Minister, how much money you saved each year at the expense of paying the pensioners less. For that information I heard, I think you said it was about 210 million euros a year, I don't know if I'm right, I don't, I'm not saying this. For all the previous data I've read, I'm saying they're true in one single pair. So you have no right to do that. Who authorized you to determine that pensioners would bear the cost of reform? Why didn't you in the government bear that expense, why didn't you have sex here, but for something, there's nothing? Why aren't you any NGOs that haven't done anything good for Serbia, why didn't you take them off Serbia's budget first and save them that way? No, for them you have to give, you have to give for various other unnecessary costs. So, stay out of demagogy, Mr. Minister. I asked you for specific information and asked you to return the money you took from the pensioners. Who said thank you? What does your thanks mean to them? I just read to you, a pensioner who had 50,000 dinar pensions you took 282.880 dinars and 14 pairs. That's a particular piece of information. You go out with the others, if this one isn't right, and I say it's true. (President: Bring the end. You say thank you. What a thank you. Give back the money. This is without legal, I end up, without legally tightening interest and without the harmonisation to which you are required in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64132	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64133	Whenever someone says they're asking for something to do with pensions back to the level before the 2014 consolidation measure is introduced, people understand what he said -- he's asking their pensions to be reduced. So, this guy who said he was asking for something to go back to the 2014 pension level, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, you who are receiving your pension, he's asking that your pensions be reduced. How much? How much does he want to cut your pensions? On average, with all the increases we've made, all pensions, but all pensions, for all categories of pensioners today, i.e. at the entry into force of the measures we're going to vote on, and these are related to the next January increase of 5.4%, Mr. Minister, all pensions in Serbia will be higher between 13.7% and 19.5% compared to that in 2014. When someone says -- we want to get back to that state, he wants to cut your pension by between 13.7 and 19.4%, at a pension level of 50,000 if someone, roughly, 19% has more than then, he's on an annual level as much as he gets two and two and a half pensions more than then. So the 50,000 he gets at a level of over a year -- over 100,000 more than then. Well, those who suggest he come back this wisely and wisely, they'd like to get out of your pocket 100,000 and some dinars at a level of a year. When they say demagogy and talk about return, there's no problem that we're dealing with these categories a little deeper at the level of their personal associates and there's a Mr. Minister right to mention Dragan Gilas. Where do you keep the power of Dragan Gilas? Is he in Old Town? Is it a demagogy that you've made two million debt with him over the back of those citizens? Let's get that back, let's see that demagogue, two million euros to get back to the citizens who live there. How many million have you taken out of these citizens' pockets to fake home help projects? Let's get that back, that demagogue to solve, and we'll talk about it further. How many tens of millions of dinars have you taken out of the pockets of those citizens, along with Gilas hand in hand in hand in the Old Town, paying his robbers and hooligans to be his personal security to that Bastac and that Milush as they burn the books. (President: Bringing the end. Let’s get that demagogue back, too, and we'll deal with everyone else. (President: I thank you. ) Finally, whether there is a bill -- what a pension it would have been if we hadn't treated the country, if we hadn't saved the economy, if we'd let it all go to waste as well as you could imagine in Old Town, which is also at the level of Belgrade, but the whole of Serbia has been working the former regime. You know, all pensions would be zero, one big zero. (President: I thank you. ) If someone believes in this country that this is better than 13-19% higher pensions than the country's significantly at least 10% higher salaries again, if someone thinks that 500 thousand lost jobs and pensions are zero better than making highways, factories, clinical and hospital centres, I think that in the best possible way, it explained in a personal example what a real demagogy is and what a political perspective is, just as good and brilliant as that Gilas and this Bastac, and ask them how nice they are today under the censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64134	Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64135	Mr. Minister, there's no better confirmation than that I'm right and that all the information I've reported is true than that you're avoiding answering and avoiding calling, but instead of you, it's the person who obviously doesn't know anything about this and trying to explain how... (President: Col. Sarovic, take care of how you express yourselves. Thank you, Mr. Arsic. (President: Respect your colleagues. ( ) I will take great care of my expression, and I will now speak only once more about concrete data. So, Mr. Arsic and Mr. Mali, by reducing pensions from 2014 to the eleventh month of pensions that were 50,000 dinars was reduced to 44,200. Is that true? And you're now explaining and claiming that that's actually what pensioners are privileged to do, and that by reducing their pensions, their pension has actually been increased. Answer now, Mr. Sinisha Mali, did you claim that pensioners were carrying the greatest burden of reform? If they were carrying a burden, so you paid them less or they're pensioners, how do those who support your government actually claim to have 13 to 19% higher pensions? What did it look like after years? In 2014, you took their pension of 50 thousand 75 thousand 405 dinars and 46 pairs, 2016 – 71 thousand 475 dinars, 2017 – 72 thousand 547 dinars, eight pairs, 2018, ending with 30.9. - 63,000 478 dinars 60. In total, from 1.11.2014 to 30.9.2018, you paid less in pensions of 50,000 dinars 282 thousand 888 dinars and 14 pairs. That's in 47 months. On average, you paid less 6,018 dinars and then you give the pensioners five thousand one-time help and you expect applause, you expect praises from the pensioners. You gave them a lot. You give them back the 3,000 euros you almost took and... (President: Bring the end. ) I repeat, these illegal tight interest rates and without consent, i.e. raising pensions twice a year in line with GDP growth... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... And according to inflation. So the amount is much higher. This is just one base. Tell me, Mr. Minister, I'm wrong. Take out the second budget. Here, I challenge you. Put it on a 20-dollar pension paper... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64136	I thank my colleague Sarovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64137	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, it is not measured by the height of the voice or the shit and the shouting of who is right and who is wrong. What is important to me, and I will repeat, and I will ask you a question, and you will answer me, how would you differ? You seem to forget the situation in which Serbia was in 2012. - in 2013. It is impossible to forget the profits of Dragan Gilas and the huge debts and huge liabilities and the huge minuses they have left for us. How can you forget that? It wasn't simple decisions, it wasn't easy decisions. These were mostly responsible decisions that were directed and directed towards the better future of our country and not to President Vukic, nor to any of us here was easy, nor simple, but it was bravely, responsibly, it was expected of us to make such a measure. We didn't take anything from anyone when there was nothing. Pay what? What do you pay for when there is no, robbed, ruined, minus? The People's Messenger throws it away. I know he knows that, but he needs time for these replicas to get a little promotion. What is important to me for our oldest citizens – with an increase in pensions from 5.4% of January 1st, all pensioners, all in the Republic of Serbia from 2014 to today will have an increase in pensions ranging from 13.7% to 19.4%. So 13.7% to 19.4% will be higher pensions than they were in 2014. It's from real sources, from what we've earned, regular, according to the plan that we've defined and the growth of that pension from year to year, from month to month, because our economy, because the state is getting better and better for us. It's a responsible policy. It's not even populism, so like now, put something back. Give you an answer – where shall we return from? Answer the question – where to pay for 2013 - 2014? We didn't want any bigger debts, we didn't want that spiral of public debt to continue. We wanted to act responsibly to leave our children a better and safer future, stable public finances, finances like in the pharmacy. Our oldest citizens understood that because they understand what the state is. They understand because of their grandchildren and their children. Another great thank you for their understanding and for the support they have given us for the reforms we have implemented. Those reforms are behind us today. I'm talking about a better tomorrow, a better future, an increase in both salaries and pensions, minimum labour prices, raising standards, building new highways, hospitals, schools, kindergartens. For this we have all fought together with them and ultimately the people, the citizens of Serbia will give a court on the work of each of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64138	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64139	There are ladies and gentlemen MPs, now a certain commitment both to you and to the citizens of Serbia, since I am accused of not knowing anything about the situation in the Old Town municipality, to prove that this is not the case. I followed the situation in that municipality very well. You know, that's what those who claim to cut people's pensions significantly now, to get back to the situation five years ago, probably with some calculation that the risk of all these pensions being zero will be repeated. Those who now hold Gilas, Bastace and Miljus in Old Town, they said, "I don't know what the situation looks like out there." Here's what I know. I know that today's official of the city municipality, otherwise the godfather of the municipality of Mark Bastac, a man named Lesnjak, spoke publicly of how they functioned, because they mentioned someone in the Old Town municipality. Personally, Bastic, who they want to reduce pensions, says he is -- recalibrating businessmen, personally taking money from illegal construction. And this hazelnut, his closest associate this morning, and the best man, whether he's still or not, I don't know, he's testifying. You know what he says, how it works. Bastac and those who hold him in power there are taking white envelopes from those who are illegally building. It happens once that this Lesnik who claims to have personally been in charge of taking these envelopes and carrying them on the hands of Bastac and the rest of the municipal government did not bring one envelope. Then Bastac put a bag on his head, previously tied him to a chair, tortured him all night long, I guess it lasted nine hours, beat him there with a screw, so he beastly went out and looked for where the money was, or where it was part of it. When we talk about kidnapping and talking about Old Town, I think this is one example that's strong enough to be easily remembered by everyone in this country and that you don't even bother with any dilemmas about whether anyone knows or doesn't know what the situation is. Whoever hears this once, be assured that you want to reduce your pensions to the people, he will remember it forever and ever. If you hold something in power, in Old Town, you hold it in power. So, those who burn the books, the Miljuš, are still a member of the council there, right, of Gilas Bastać, who puts bags on people's heads and tortures them, those who destroyed Milan Gale Muskatirović's centre for two million euros, who knows how many tens of millions of municipal budgets they spend on their people, but they also say some council members who pay in this way, so it's a robbery and it's kidnapping if we talk about those categories. You're Mr. Minister about one thing completely right. The people appreciate everything well, all the good measure and the people know that they really are better when, you said 13.7 to 19.4% more pensions are there, and it's certainly better when his wages are growing significantly and certainly better when hundreds of thousands have new jobs. Criminals and those who hold them in power, that they mate can't, when faced with the truth, with the testimony of their closest associates, their godfathers, when they face their bags and rackets, their only answer is, we're never gonna do a polygraph or anyone. It may be a good indicator of how safe they are in those things they do, how true it is on their side, although for that, since someone mentioned applause, they expect applause. I believe they'll both get applause and ovation in the elections in a few months, from today they won't have to wait long for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64140	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64141	Mr. Minister, first of all, I don't think it's right for you to address the MPs that way. I didn't insult you with anything. You know I could have done it if I wanted to, but I thought this debate should start with arguments and that these arguments should stick to us. I've brought out two specific data, read the amounts not in dinar, but in pairs how much less you've paid the pensioners, and that's the point. You answer how, and you ask me how could it have been different? It could have been done in many ways, Mr. Minister. You don't have the right to kidnap pensioners. That's the point. Have we ever attacked you for cutting public sector wages? It's something that's unpopular, but it's not against the law, it's not against the law. And anyone you cut your salary to could have said I wanted to or didn't want to work for that salary in the future, but the pension, the pension someone earned, made in a certain amount, depending on how many years he worked, how many years he set aside for that retirement internship. You can't touch that. You can't put your hand in someone's pocket. Imagine if you were to determine who has a huge savings, or to cut every 10% of the savings. So what's the difference? And pensions are something the state guarantees. The state either you have or you don't have it. You escaped again, Mr. Sinisha Mali, perhaps because of that phone you keep working on, to answer exactly how many million euros did the state save by paying less pensions? Is it true, that's the information you mentioned, that it's about 210 million euros a year? And let's see what the amount per year is, let's see what the total amount is for all four years. Let's see if you have any analysis, and I'm saying you don't have it, you didn't even have it before you cut your pensions. You've done no analysis, let's see how this affects Serbia's economy. You know very well that pensioners are unable to save... (President: Bring the end of your colleague Sarovic.) ) Here, Mr. Arsic, Vladimir Orlic spoke for three minutes and 40 seconds, and you interrupt me after two minutes and 40 seconds. (President: In the same second you are warned. All right, so I got another minute. Thank you. (President: You don't. ) So, I ask you, Mr. Minister, that instead of this empty political story, demagogy and parol, you come out with concrete data – how much you have reduced those who had a pension of 20,000 dinars, as much as those who had 30,000, and so on. That's the information, if you can get it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64142	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64143	I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to say, I guess, during today, I'm going to get, after trying to get the previous MP to convince us of something that no one can understand in common sense, so that we who have something to say about the budget, too, say. I would ask you to strictly adhere to Article 104. At some point, the replicas must be brought to an end by the chairman. This has become completely pointless, because we are listening to the same budget observation for, I don't know, what year, obviously not for 2020, from the previous MEP. Secondly, I don't understand why you don't apply the rule that replicas last for two minutes. How can any MP speak thanks to your running session of three moons 70 seconds, this one speaks for two minutes 40 seconds, then we have no rules at all. I ask you to start applying the Rules of Procedure, to call speakers on the list, that whoever has to say in terms of the provisions of Rule 104, or to be offensively expressed, or someone doesn't understand it. If someone doesn't understand him, he can't convince us now for three days that we should understand him. That's what Serbian citizens will do in the next election. Either they understand what an MP from the SRS or no one understands it, or they understand it in some small percentage that will win in the elections, we can't do an analysis here to get their political party to do it, if one day the Serbian citizens decide to vote for them exclusively, so we have a majority in this parliament. Please, Article 104, let us vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure after your explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64144	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, for the purpose of a democratic debate, I tolerated a little more Members of the people when they spoke their replicas, and I will make sure that in the next replicas this is brought to the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. (Maya Gojkovic: You didn't ask me.) I understand, colleague Gojkovic, that you asked the National Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64145	Yeah. Your explanation is not satisfactory. You didn't answer my question how is it possible for Nemanja Sarovic to speak every time for over three minutes? The rule is two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64146	I tried to say that it was for a democratic debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64147	I apologize for having to enter the controversy with you. It's not my intention. I know how difficult it is to hold sessions, especially if you have a flexible relationship with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. But when we add it up, I'm going to add it up today and in the afternoon part I'm going to tell you how many times you've spoken for three minutes. We don't have rules like that. You didn't answer how it's possible for you to give someone three minutes to respond to a two-minute replica? Then give it to each and every one of us, and let's see where we come from. For this reason, we will vote for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not because I am not satisfied with one part of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64148	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64149	Mr. Arsic, this is unrecorded that this is how you communicate with an MP in the bench. I have answered to point out the violation of article 107, which speaks of each speaker being worthy of the dignity of the National Assembly. I didn't insult anyone by saying it, I repeat, that I've provided concrete information as to how much was taken from every pensioner who had a pension of 50,000 dinars. I invited the minister to bring out the data for those who had 20, 30, 40, 60, 100 thousand dinars, too, to be seen for them. You were silent when the previous speaker said that one discussion could not be understood by anyone who was in good sense. Imagine that the debate of the MP could not have been understood by anyone who was in good sense! Is that offensive? And if we're going to follow some rules, let's make them all. Don't be one for the ruling coalition's representatives without being completely different for those in the opposition. I was here all the time talking about the budget, talking about the finances. I ask the question of the Minister why no funds are provided in this budget to compensate the pensioners for what they had been kidnapped for the past four years, and that is the most important issue of this budget and of each of the following, until that money and those funds are returned to them. I didn't talk here about people who don't sit in the assembly, things that have nothing to do with this discussion. I stick to the budget all the time and what is most important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which I think is the most important moment right now. And for that policy we're implementing... (President: I thank you, colleague Sarovic.) Here, I'm done. Allow me at least two minutes, that's how much I'm right. Don't interrupt me until two minutes are up. (President: It's been two minutes. Now that you've interrupted me, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64150	Comrade Sarovic, I have already been warned by the MPs that I am extending your time for replicas, and now I do not want to do the same for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think article 107 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure and that MPs here generally address one another with respect. The fact that someone doesn't understand you may be your problem, but no one said, no MP, as you expressed yourself as a colleague of the Orlics when you told him that he didn't know anything. Nemanja Sarovic: It is my political assessment, what is the issue? And this is also a political assessment. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Just yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64151	Mr. Arsic, just before Mrs. Gojkovic answered much longer, how is now just -- yes or no? She's been answering for a minute. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64152	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64153	I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64154	Do you want the Budget Law? (Maya Gojkovic: If I'm up, yes. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64155	I thank you, I seem to be up to this time, and I will be able to address the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia with several sentences, perhaps surprisingly, not only in a positive sense. First of all, I want to say, because of the previous course of the session, that the assessment of Serbia's overall public is that this is the development budget, first of all. Secondly, this is not a pre-election budget, because each budget since 2012 has so far shown a positive upward trend that whether it is good or not is good can only assess Serbian citizens in elections or in some inter-periode. Otherwise, every budget that has been adopted in this Assembly since 2012 would turn out to be a pre-election budget, only because it has positive indicators in relation to citizens' standards. If there were no confusion, someone who had listened to the previous debate for an hour would think that the 2020 budget is something that represents one cataclysm for the citizens of Serbia, because the fact that this budget envisions an increase in pensions and that this budget envisions an increase in wages in the public sector. It is something that is good and that shows that the Republic of Serbia is not only politically stable, but also a very economically stable state and that after a long time, a time since 2012, when the SNS, along with its coalition partners, was forced after the threat of, come on, I can say, to be understood by ordinary citizens of this country, the absolute economic debacle of this country, to make reforms both in pension and other systems a shift up. Whether it's anti-constitutional or constitutional, we can't evaluate and get up here because it's popular to say it, so let's say that one decision isn't against the constitution. So the Constitutional Court decision can only be relevant whether the pension reduction is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or not. In Europe, other countries that were in this situation have decided that this measure is constitutional. It seems to me that the Constitutional Court has reached out in Serbia and in this case, and it is not up to us to distort the truth. These all measures, which had to be implemented in the previous period, where pensions were reduced to one extent, received a positive assessment from Serbian citizens and largely in the upstream line, because each time... You listen to music, that's how these previous discussions sounded, like jokes, comedians and music, and we talk about the most important law for citizens... (Serb Radical Party emissaries earn: Ua! Thank you for the oo. ... for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is certainly the budget, where you can see... (Serb Radical Party emissaries earning) I can only say that with pointless and pointless discussions, we have primitive throws, nothing else. It is my right to say on behalf of the citizens who voted for the option I represent. So where citizens can see which direction is what amount of money is intended to be spent. That is why the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget is planned, and thank God this year for the first time and extended to twice the time. I am sorry that those who have sought in some informal places to conduct a longer discussion on the budget, are not here and have shown this, are these empty benches across from us, thus showing that they are not really interested in discussing the life of Serbian citizens in 2020, but are more interested in morning sessions and breakfasts with different factors outside of this country. I think they owe the citizens of Serbia who, at one point, probably voted for them by mistake or by perhaps being hurt by something in our view of politics and our view of Serbia's leadership. But they wronged them, because we don't hear what the other opposition, except the SRS, is going to say about this budget, if at all, because the budget is really developmental and excellent. I just want to comment, the restitution process has been commented by several MPs in the previous days and today. Yes, here, I will defend the state's attitudes and the commitment of the state. Real estates of natural persons have been kidnapped since 1945 and during the period of nationalisation. They earned it honestly, they were honest people who bought apartments for their money, bought houses, and opened factories. That communist way of distracting the citizens of this country that I need something now to get back to someone who didn't deserve it, so I'm creeping myself out on it. I thought that with one-sided thinking and communism, we ended up introducing a multi-party system into our country. What does that mean, you shouldn't? In some ways, this has broken into our generation and our government, to return what was taken from ordinary people, citizens of the same country, our predecessors, ordinary merchants, ordinary craftsmen, and even factories, why not? How can we not return apartments that have occurred to someone that they should have that and that communist into their villa here in Belgrade or to kidnap apartments at Tanurdzic's palace in Novi Sad or across Serbia? So it's gone wrong on our generations that we're returning something that's wrong with politics, communist, dictatorial politics was forced by the citizens of this country. We have to get it back, whether we like it or not. It returns to all former communist states across Europe. To end with that, that anomaly has to be corrected. I'm sorry we have to fix it, so we're gonna focus some of the money on it. That process is already near the end, as far as I know, and it won't be possible for any other purpose. But, thank God, this budget is enough for the construction of infrastructure, for the construction of roads, for the modernisation of railways, for the construction of hospitals, for schools, etc. I'm glad, and I don't think anyone has talked about it, probably because only Minister Sinisha Mali and Minister Djordjevic are present at all sessions, I want to commend them. It is the power of Minister Syniche Malo, but if we're going to talk about the budget in particular, not just the amendments, I think we should sit here and the other ministers. We can plow with them, not harass Tinisha the Little for every item here in the budget. He accepted it, but the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed this budget to us. Sinisa Mali is an excellent minister, Sinisha Mali was a great student, that's what I'm saying to the professor of the Faculty of Economics who taught him, and I've never told you in private that they have an excellent opinion of you and you show that you're not only good at theory, but you're doing a good job, and you have every praise for that. Those who attack you are only being attacked politically, because you are loyal to President Alexander Vukic and because you are doing a good job. If you were some minister who wasn't interested in finance, but only came here to take pictures of the minister, no one would mention you. I'm sorry sometimes when they don't attack me, because right now I don't think I'm doing well and I'm willing to do what they want to do. So, don't be nervous about it, the professional public and citizens of Serbia will say what they think about you and the government of Serbia and what they think of Alexander Vukic, who is certainly satisfied with your work and thinks you are a serious man and a serious minister. Minister Djordjevic, thank you, we have nothing to say about your part of the budget that is truly exceptional and for social contributions always fight for even more funding, but we have to say about ministers who do not have time for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The culture minister did not come here to say that indeed the efforts of Ana Brnabic have a slight increase in the culture budget. For culture never enough, but culture in Europe always has to fight for what little more air, but there are considerable resources in the investment part, and we have here an increase in the budget and for investment in the film industry, for building new theatres, new museums. We will not forget that this year we opened the Museum of Contemporary Art here in Belgrade, after ten years of rotting into the weeds of that museum by those who are now all against this Government of the Republic of Serbia, I guess because they don't give them individual apparition, but they can't get up from saying, yes, we have the Museum of Contemporary Art, yes, we have the National Museum, yes, the town of Novi Sad is the European capital of culture, yes, we have opened theatres throughout Serbia, and not only in Belgrade, it should be commended. We need the minister to come by and talk a little bit about whether it could be more and what he thinks about it, than we have one minister who doesn't come here and that's the relationship we're dealing with for the good budget he's got. In particular, I must say, if I didn't just turn out to be criticizing a minister, the environment minister would have to come here and talk. I am not talking about the party that it belongs to, but I am talking about it personally, because it does not come to the meetings of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and then we MPs are struggling to increase the items in the 2020 budget. I would like to thank the minister in particular for adopting the proposals and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for these items that we have in the part of the budget relating to environmental protection, because there is a significant increase here. First, if I'm not mistaken, you're going to correct me, that the 7.9 billion dinars for the environment are defined, of course, it's commendable, that the reduced funds for the administrative functioning of the ministry by 8.04%, maybe that's why the minister didn't come, but we have a significant growth in funding for the Green Fund, which is 4.3 billion, which is a total increase of 45.36%. Why am I saying that increased resources are in the environmental protection work? Well, because today is modern, with all the other attacks on the government of the Republic of Serbia, that every day we have cataclysm in relation to the discussion of the environment in Serbia. We have a minister who comes every day to say that it is terrible in Serbia, and we have a president of the state who is forced to answer false news that Belgrade is the most polluted city, for example, in Europe. Belgrade's most polluted city? Well, that would be one news that the industrialization of such a degree in Belgrade is that now we just need to see how to reduce the level of pollution. You're not true. I have to repeat both the president's words and what I've been commenting on every day that I've seen these false news, there have been pollution, of course, but an abnormal rise in climate change, or the temperature of almost 30 degrees that we've had in those days, without any day of rain for months and months without wind. Well, of course, after seven days when the temperature went down a little bit and we had the wind coming down and that degree of pollution. It is therefore important to note that the items here are significantly increased and that this is an extremely good trend for the state to take care of the environment. But there is that -- but, which spoils girls' happiness, not cats, as my predecessor said, but girls or women, which is that we are the state that ratified the Paris Agreement, one of the first ones in the world, but we lack in this term the draft laws that simply implement the Paris Agreement in everyday citizens' lives. We have no climate change law, according to my information he was completed in the draft a few years ago, we don't have a law on climate change here in front of MEPs to adopt him. We don't have a new law or amendments to the Law on the Environment. We don't have four years here, normative we need to talk about to take a step forward. It's not enough that we show up at international conferences around the world to show up and say something that doesn't reflect the real situation with us, which is that we don't have laws that follow the Paris Agreement and we don't take a step further. Why? I can't answer that. I can't talk to the finance minister about the environment, and if I believe that as an ordinary citizen, he's interested in it. Let me tell you, this increase is an increase thanks to the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, personally the president of the PKK, Mr. Chad. I must commend the Committee for the Protection of the Environment, which has responded to every joint proposal made by Chadje in cooperation with me. So, all 12 members present, not those who boycott themselves and the work of Parliament, have always been for these proposals, and we have managed together with the finance minister to fight for this increase in environmental protection, in order to preserve the environment, to reduce pollution in order to avoid endangering human health, it is necessary to define an increasing part of the charged environmental taxis for the environment. Today it's 12 billion, about 38%, we agreed that next year it would be a significantly larger part of the money. What the authorities are also running away from is to finally solve and the problem of recycling, the long-standing debts we have towards that industry, we have a delay in the cost of incentives, after 12 months compared to last year. They have unpredictable business, they don't know when or how much they'll get paid. The waste processing is financed exclusively from commercial loans, which are, of course, taken from banks, and they are now in a situation where they can no longer return it. So, in 2018, it's 1.1 billion dinars, and I'm convinced it'll at least be paid off, but retroactively. So, the existing Environmental Protection Act is not applicable, and everyone seems more interested in solving this problem than the missing minister and I have to criticise it, no matter what I support the work of the Serbian government. One minister does not mean that if the minister is in the government that he cannot be criticised. The late opening of the competition for the current year is also an extremely big problem. Why do I keep pointing out the problem of recycling industry? It's not a debt payoff there to someone, as they say now, they took communists, so, what, we pay these people off, once, why they, I don't know, were capitalists. Listen, why were they capitalists? The recycling industry, the special industry, we have to have it, how else are we going to deal with this kind of pollution and garbage, if we shut it down, we're going to create social cases. There are, of course, highly profiled personnel, people with colleges, such laws, they have to have engineers who do these jobs, but six thousand people at least in that system, in that circle, who collect secondary raw materials. If they don't get an incentive from the state how they're gonna pay compensation to those people who... So, the recycling plant is going to close, and the discontinuation of waste disposal is the contamination of the environment with about 100 million kilograms of annual hazardous waste that ends in the environment, and that is the loss of about 10,000 sustainable jobs. We must deal seriously with the environment, if no one else, then MPs will take that role. I want to do it again, I wanted to introduce this problem to all MPs, not just MPs who participate in the work of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. Once again, I would like to thank Minister Sinisha Malom, who has shown his understanding of this problem, for also thanking the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, Mr Chad, but I say to the members of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Joint Efforts for getting such a good budget in this area, but all for 2020. I really wish that at least when we discuss the amendments, other Serbian government members would be present to discuss with us the amendments that have been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64156	Thank you. My colleague Sarovic, on what grounds? Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64157	Mr. Arsic, I signed up for the replica in accordance with Article 104. You did not allow it, and I am now telling you that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, which says that if an MP misreads someone else's exposure as the previous speaker is completely wrong and I can say that you freely and maliciously interpreted my presentation in the part where I mentioned the restitution. So, if you claim that the restitution is done because something that's been taken away and earned in a fair way, does that mean that pensions aren't earned in a fair way, so that it's taken away from pensions can't be returned. So we're right. Obviously, and in and mentioned in the end line, the previous speaker directly mentioned my name and my MP group, and it is quite obvious that this misread exposure refers to me. Do you want the National Assembly in which there will be an exchange of views, that you should consider and think about what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would look like if there were no MPs here from the SRS? Would that be the atmosphere in which you want to discuss the budget with yourself? If you praise two ministers who have come and find two who have not, and what about the others? How do you imagine Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64158	Kola Sarovic, member of 104, who regulates the matter of violations of the Rules of Procedure, is said to be an offensive expression about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, none of which has happened, nor has his last name, only the SRS parliamentary group has been mentioned, if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative has the right to reply. So I didn't break the Rules of Procedure in any part of it, by not giving you a replica. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64159	Yes, I want the National Assembly declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64160	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64161	Article 107, paragraph 1, is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and the dignity of the National Assembly is injured every time an MP does not speak the truth. So I understand the MP Sarovic perfectly, but he does not respect this parliament or respect me as an MP, he keeps saying that I did not understand him well. I understood him perfectly. He asks that Serbian citizens not be returned to what was taken from them during the communist regime of Josip Broz Tito and the Communist Party. He believes it's all been ordered in some speculative way and that these citizens need not be returned to anything and that compares it to the situation when their coalition partner from the Old Town, destroyed the country's economy. Right? You're together, they're a coalition together, if I'm not mistaken. I'm not in the Old Town municipality, so I don't know what the situation is, but I'm uncomfortablely surprised that the SRS in the coalition with the DS and those who took away the constant opportunity for pensioners and Serbian citizens to get better. I perfectly understood MP Sarovic, that he advocated the return of old time, that Dragan Djilas would come to power again and increase before each election, without any basis for the economic, budgetary, pensioners, so that they would vote for Dragan Gilas. Now, that kind of went until 2012, then the citizens of Serbia said -- no, never again. That's why they don't come here for a session to discuss the budget. They have nothing to say. I agree with you, Your Honor. (President: Bringing the end. ) There must be dialogue here, but not by just keeping quiet, and they'll talk, but when they say we can return the arguments, and they're out of here because they don't want to hear how guilty they are about the economic situation until 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64162	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, for these reasons, I have not recognized the basis for the replica to Mr. Sarovic, which you have listed, so I believe I did not violate that member of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64163	Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting to point to Article 103's injury. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president and has just done so before, Mrs Gojkovic, but the position of the 4th member says she can do so for a period of up to two minutes. It was she who had previously warned you from the bench that you had to hold sessions according to the Rules of Procedure, and she spoke for two minutes and 40 seconds. On the aside that during the two minutes and 40 seconds period, she did not speak at all about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as she was obliged to explain in the manner in which the Rules of Procedure was injured, she was already expressing her political views, so she accuses me of supporting those who were economically destroying Serbia. Did I support Boris Tadic or did Maja Gojkovic do it? Was I on the list in the coalition with Mladjan Dinkic or was it Maja Gojkovic? Don't think we've all lost our memory here. We remember very well and we know who was in the previous period and when you talk about coalition partners who did not know how many years before, you talk about your coalition partners, SPS, SPS, Unity Serbia, Karic, Rasim Ljajic, Ugljanin and many others who are with you today in the coalition. If you are talking about coalitions, and you were in the coalition with Ramush Haradinaj, and with Hashim Thaci, now you want and wish for a coalition with Kurti and you warn your coalition partner that he is making a coalition against Serbia, then you will too. Make up your mind once what you want, but be principled and consistent at least once.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64164	Thank you. I did not violate Coli Sarovic, Article 103, because in time I warned my colleague that she was bringing an end to her presentation, which she did, if you object to her for making political assessments in her discussion and her exposure to the rules of procedure, then I ask you not to do the same, and you have just done it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64165	Mr. Arsic, I believe that the National Assembly in voting day should come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64166	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64167	Dear Chairman, I point to Article 27's injury. The Rules of Procedure, given that, in the sense of applying the Rules of Procedure, you failed to sanction the previous speaker for two reasons. The first reason was already stated, because he exceeded the time allowed by the Rules of Procedure to react according to the Rules of Procedure, so he spoke for more than two minutes, and the second reason was a clear abuse of the Rules of Procedure or abuse of procedural authority from the Rules of Procedure, given that instead of injuring the Rules of Procedure, the previous speaker pointed to something else, which had absolutely nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, calling on political parties, including both the SPS and the way in which, instead of hurting him, he did what he wanted, which was his goal, which is to replicate, or to you and the whole coalition, indicate something that implies the collection of political points. Given that we have agreed, that you have heard from the President of the Assembly that we must have zero tolerance for this kind of abuse, when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to respond in time, by consistently applying the Rules of Procedure to all MPs, and that means the MPs of the opposition, who is present in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64168	Thank you. However, let me inform you that I could not apply the provision of Rule 103 of Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure. to subtract time from the parliamentary group, which was abused by counterpart Sarovic, to present his political assessments. I only had one more way left, and that was to give him a warning, but you know that counterpart Sarovic is a little naughty and that after that notice, it will take a long time to advertise his Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64169	Mr. Chairman, you're right about everything, but other than members 103 and 108 and 109, they're predicting certain measures that can be applied in situations like those we have today. Okay, I agree, and it's perfectly clear to all of us that here some react, first of all, to fines, because, first of all, they are interested in money, and that's what we've already established in the case of No Sarovic, but it doesn't matter. So the last time he was punished by 10%, which is why, you've noticed it well, for an hour he insisted that that punishment be reduced and done everything he could and couldn't imagine, just to somehow save him, I think, 7,000 dinars. That's what we remembered, how he knew how to pretend to be a Vranian, so he lived there, to travel to the National Assembly sessions. It was just a little over 7,000 dinars in his pocket. I think it's been a little bit more than a few million on that occasion. But on the subject of coalitions, there's no need for anyone, anything, to be fooled, to be deceived, to lie to, to summon the wrong memories. So, it's not at all about who was in the coalition two, five years ago, as much as you want, so we remember that you were, as you were today in Old Town and before with Gilas, and we remember that there were nice appointments with the boards of directors and supervisors by Dragan Gilas, provided for your representatives and all that was great. It's all great. But what's going on today with Gilas in Old Town? You cooperate, as directly as possible with him and his Mildush, means what makes the books work. I heard Vojislav Seselj say here – if there is an association to fascism, it is the burning of books. Vojislav Seselj told me in the eyes, and he told the citizens of Serbia – whoever did it must be punished. I say to him, "Well, that's what Miljuš was doing, and your Vojislav Seselj says, "If it is determined undeniably, then it must bear the consequences." Is it uncontested, did Gilas confess, did Gilas admit that that was what their people were doing? Now, if you don't want to stand by your words, behind that attitude that Vojislav Seselj said here, so you can apply political conconsequences to these people, I can only conclude, Mr. Arsic, that you were right when you said that money seems to be the main motive. It doesn't matter what they say, it's not about attitude, it's not about political value, it's about someone 7,000, someone Bastac pays a little more, a little more. Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. Since there's been a lot of talk here about kidnapping, about having something to come back, let's say, since you're working so well with Dragan Gilas, you get along so well and work together in the Old Town, appeal to a man, 619m euros he put on his company's accounts, while he was mayor, while he was a minister, while he was in public office, that he would return it to the people. You know what I'm saying? One single million euros, not recorded that Dragan Gilas had before he was in those posts. I can only conclude, the hundreds of millions of euros he has thanks to these functions, thanks to the people's money. Well, if we're talking about coming back, appeal, ask him nicely, maybe he wants to listen to you because you're good associates to him, to give that money back to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64170	Thank you. I don't think I've violated the above provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64171	Mr. Arsic, I point out that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, which is spoken of by a Member of 107 who says the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly implies being honest and that we do not try to present things that are common knowledge to those who are not. You're talking about coalition partners, and it's you, gentlemen, in the coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, who Marko Đuric just said, that I will quote that I am not wrong: that Ugljan's example is filth and immorality, because he went to meet with Alibino Kurti. Now, I'm asking you how is it possible that you're in a coalition in Prepolje, in Priboj, and in Tutin with Sulejman Ugljanin, who you're saying is an example of filth and immorality? Does this mean that you will not go to meet with Albin Kurti and does this mean that you gave up the idea that representatives of the Serbian list would participate in the government with Albin Kurti? Now, let's be principled to the end, state your political position, whatever it is. But Kurti can't be good when he's in the coalition with you, and he's not good when he's in a coalition with Sulja Ugljanin. Sulja Ugljanin can't be good when she's in the coalition with you, and she's not good when she's with Kurti. He can't be a good SPS, when he's in the coalition with you, and it's no good when he's in the coalition with DS, Mladjan Dinkic and the others he was in the coalition with. Why are SPS representatives not fair, so when they are criticised by their coalition partners, that they robbed Serbia by 2012, then come forward, not when we mention it and ask why you are not responding? Be brave, be honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64172	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64173	I point out Article 103(1), where the MP has the unimpaired right to point out the president's mistakes. We're here, almost certain to say, performance. You, Mr. Chairman, are acting selectively. There are such untruths, which are tied to the SRS, and then this untruth goes to the extreme, that a man simply wonders if this is a parliament of Serbia or another state. Here, through the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, it triggers the return of property. Are you aware of one fact, what is this all about, that the communists after World War II have taken away in a legal or non-legislative way that it should all be returned? So, how are you smart-ass gonna react when the folks and their descendants show their demands to get their property back? On the same basis. Right? They bring confidence that they are citizens of Austria, that they have nothing to do with
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64174	Comrade Mircic, just tell me, what does this have to do with Article 103?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64175	Yeah, yeah. He told you Nemanja Sarovic about all this. You want with these replicas, that is, by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure to deny him and the fundamental right, to point to your selectivity when it comes to this debate being conducted. Let me just finish this. It's a very dangerous game that you're playing, on the same principle, on the same basis, you're going to have to bring back the folks of the folks to the property, the most you can do on the territory of the Vojvodina, and then you're going to wonder where that idea came from. Just nod your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64176	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I don't see what that has to do with Article 103, especially when it comes to the fact that the Restitution Act was passed long before the SNS came into power. Do you wish, colleague Mircic, that the National Assembly declares itself in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64177	Yes, I want the National Assembly to declare itself in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64178	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64179	And Article 112, Mr. Arsic, I believe it's a constructive proposal right now, you know what that means. As for, well, I have to say, a little ideological debate here, I, of course, don't want to open it and I don't want to run it, but it has to do with these coalitions we talked about. Albina Kurti as a desirable partner, as far as I know, was only mentioned by Dragan Gilas and his men. Borko Stefanovic, then left Serbian leader, did not collectively transfer to Gilas, on several occasions saying that Aljbin Kurti is a wonderful man, that he should be co-operated with, right? Gilas's representatives at KIM, as they call themselves -- the Alliance for Kosovo, Rada Trajkovic and that Rasic, who recorded a pre-election video in Albanian and story -- me Kosovar, we Kosovars and we citizens of the youngest state in the world. They've all advocated and advocated co-operation with these people. So, to sum up, that one of us, we say, this Kurti advocates great Albania, and we find it unacceptable, but rather your coalition partners, your Gilas, Bastac, Miljus, Borko Stefanovic and others, they advocate co-operation with Aljbin Kurti, I don't say in Old Town, they don't seem to have brought him there yet, but to be open to the end, you're not interested in this debate either Kurti, or Rada Trajkovic, or five, here the debate has anything to do with the budget on money. So, Mr. Arsic, you won't give a warning, so we won't enter the most sensitive area for Mr. Sarovic and the others, and that's money. But speaking of budgets and talking about money, I'm taking the opportunity to repeat my correct proposal to you. Talk to your coalition partners from Gilas' party. Ask both Bastac and Miljus, which burns books and those bags on their heads, to transfer to Dragan Gilas, 619m euros that he transferred to the accounts of his companies while he was mayor, the minister in Serbia, as he acquired them while he took care of the people's money and the people's interest, I read that he acquired it at the expense of the people, to return it nicely to that people, because one million did not have until he came to those functions, so we'll talk about what all the good things could be financed and had to do with the people's interests. I think it's a great suggestion, what a man doesn't belong to, and he took from the people, as Gilas took from the people, to return. I think it's a good enough suggestion to be satisfied and you, even though that coalition in Old Town won't last long, until March as far as you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64180	Comrade Orlic, would you like the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Orlic: No. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64181	I thank you, Chairman. I suggest a violation of Article 27(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that I cannot accept such a degree of tolerance as you have towards MP Sarovic. Such a degree of tolerance has so far not been seen in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you tolerate literally every kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure which he has committed without being sanctioned once, even for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which he has done at least four or five times today. If we want to bring this session in order and continue in the spirit in which it is only possible to do so, which is to discuss the most important point, surely most important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Law on Budgets, then to talk exclusively about it, and in no case do you allow coalitions, alliances, and some illegal parts, etc. The Socialist Party of Serbia will first not tolerate in any case the abuse of the Rules of Procedure at its expense, to be labelled through the violation of the Rules of Procedure in one ugly way. We are aware anywhere in the coalition that we are working in the interest of citizens, exclusively in the interest of citizens. Anyone who has wronged the law should answer and we do not have a problem with it, but I ask you to respond in any case to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure and I think that Honorable colleague Orlic rightly pointed out the possibility of applying Article 112. Rules of Procedure, if we can't move on to the point in which it's supposed to be done, to set a break, then after that we'll continue in the way the Rules of Procedure foresees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64182	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64183	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would like to take the opportunity to address you, given that I have received another letter from Dragan Gilas in which he said the following. I'll quote. He says Sinisa Mali cowardly reduced the budget support of the University of Belgrade in the 2020 budget by 525m dinars, that he misused the minister's position and thus took revenge on the University. Mr. Gilas, faceless lie, only one in a series of your lies and your delusions. You should be ashamed not only of ignorance and because you deceive Serbian citizens, but because you lie. I'll never go down into your mud, I'll never land on your branches. You'd probably react like this and cowardly someone would take revenge for nothing. I don't do that. I will continue to fight against such people as you and to show the citizens of Serbia by working and engaging to prove my knowledge. Let me show you why and how you lie. So, you said the budget for the University of Belgrade was reduced from 19.2 to 18.7 billion dinars and that we as the Government reduced it through budget and budget support. Look, Mr. Gilas, once again that budget. So, the University of Belgrade's revenues consist of two parts -- support from the budget and its own university revenues. Budget support for 2019 - 10.4 billion, budget support for 2020 - 11.3 billion. That's 804 million dinars more for next year than this year. Your own incomes, Mr. Gilas, the university is shrinking, and I guess you know and you should ask the University's leadership, you know them better than I do, which is why their own incomes are shrinking, so their overall budget is shrinking. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the budget has increased support for the Belgrade University of 804m dinars. The whole education budget is bigger. So, in 2020, the education budget, for education, for the science of 226.7 billion dinars. This year was 211.7. So 15 billion dinars more for education and education. The Innovation Labour Fund, just to give a few examples, this year a billion and 100 million, and next year a billion and 260 million. The Science Promotion Center from 101 to 108 million dinars. Science Fund, a double budget, with 500 million dinars per billion dinars. Mr. Gilas, I will always support young people, our education, our education. We will provide 500m euros in the national investment plan for apartments for our young people. We are already providing incentives for employment, working on unemployment among young people falling from month to month. We fight for their better future. You're a coward and you're a great liar and you should be ashamed to deal with such lies and lies, but that's what it's for you. That's how you robbed Serbian citizens for 619m euros. So your first associates put their wedding godmothers on their heads, strangle them and choke them for the money they stole and the illegal construction they took part in in the Old Town. You're proud of it and so be it. I will fight and continue to fight, that's what I said, against those like you, against such politics, and I will never fall into your mud and fall to your level, because in your statement, you have come from yourself. This is what you'd do. No, we do things differently. There is greater support for science and education, because that is what Serbia and our children deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64184	Mr. Sarovic, on what grounds are you answering? (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64185	Mr. Arsic, he's hurt... First, I'd like to ask you to establish order in the O.R. Your MPs are a bit nervous-looking. Here come those who earn. Thank you. Thus, article 107 says the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Ministers are in the National Assembly to respect the MPs as representatives of the citizens and to answer their questions. Who they're exchanging personal correspondence with, we're not interested. So, I can also congratulate you, Mr. Mali, for cutting yourself in this way in the face of Dragan Gilas what you had, but the problem is that he's not here. Why don't you go to the Ministry and hold a press conference? This is the National Assembly and I ask you to answer the questions that ask you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64186	counterpart Sarovic, the minister answered questions concerning the Belgrade University and the grant from the Republika Srpska budget to the Belgrade University in terms of development, science and not to count further. Now, if you're reporting as lawyer Dragan Gilas, I can't tolerate it here even though you may have his power of attorney, so I'm asking you not to abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure to defend from the seat of Dragan Gilas. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64187	Mr Arsic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I demand that the National Assembly be declared in the voting day... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64188	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64189	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proposed budget for 2020 is not only developmental, but is also socially responsible for guaranteeing further economic and economic development of our country. Given the inherited state of affairs in the country from the previous government, first of all, I mean the yellow company, especially in health care, we inherited an economy that was ahead of bankruptcy itself, borrowing extremely unfavourable loans, as well as total chaos in all areas. It was supposed to fix the financial situation, get to a positive zero in all areas, and then move forward. From a country that has been one step away from bankruptcy, we have reached the most successful, most desirable and most developed states in the Balkans. Thanks to the difficult reforms carried out since 2014 when the Prime Minister was the current president of the state, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who had a vision, who had had the courage and who did not hide from the citizens what the situation was like in the state register, spoke openly, sincerely and received the huge support of the citizens to implement the difficult fiscal consolidation measures, the heavy measures, very unpopular, in order to get Serbia out of the ambition and to ensure that all of our citizens have a secure future. Pensions, as well as salaries, whose payout has been compromised are now regular and growing. I guess a lot of people who are my generation and older, they remember the period when, say, you get a payout and then you wait two or three months, some and longer, to get a new payoff, and then they call their phones in a hurry around Belgrade, but there's no money. Thank God, that belongs to the past now. We're recording continued economic growth. Serbia's credit rating has been raised and we have a better standard of living for citizens. Inflation's been the lowest in 50 years. Serbia has the most stable dinar course of all time and increased foreign reserves. Unemployment has been halved, Serbia is now a leader in foreign investment, a large number of new factories have been opened throughout Serbia where a huge number of Serbian citizens are employed, and I do not remember, let's say, that one president has reminded my hometown of Nis so many times. Investments are also open in the least developed municipalities. In Serbia, highways began to be built after 50 years and more than 300km of highways were built in the last four years. As for health care, I quote Mr. Alexander Vukic, this is from his 2016 exposé when he said, quote: "Health comes first, a new health care plan for you and your family. Our health care has been accompanied by a number of reforms, unrealised projects, untapped loans and donations, which have all contributed to Serbia's health by 2014 being considered the worst in Europe, with the worst quality assessments. The challenge has been to stop Serbia's health failure in the past period. Not only have we achieved this, but we have created a base for the development and progress of treatment conditions with us. We created conditions for our health to be faster, more efficient and more quality," the end of the quote. It's really like that. Serbia allocates large funds for health care because we want our health system to be efficient, easy and fast available to all Serbian citizens. Treatment with the use of state-of-the-art procedures is our strategic goal. In this direction, in addition to the construction and reconstruction of existing health facilities, the acquisition of new medical equipment and appliances, the Government and the Ministry of Health are intensively implementing and the human resources policy of the health system by employing young medical professionals and by approving professional training, i.e. specialisation. I'm gonna do a little short-circuiting because I've been working 32 years in health care for what she used to be, and what she's like now. So, for example. In Serbia's health system, 2009 and 2010, the nurse's salary at the clinic was 29,137 dinars, and the nurses in intensive care were 30,159 dinars. In 2019 the salary increased to 15%, from 8% to 15%, so now the salary will be 50,000 dinars. The salary of doctors of general medicine, without specialization, in 2009 and 2010 was 50,117 dinars, and in 2019 69,884 dinars. Specialists, doctors specialists paid 62,000 dinars 10 years ago, and in 2019 87,776 dinars. So it's working intensively on financial empowerment of health workers. According to the results, our health system is now ahead of 14 EU countries, under the same conditions. It is extremely important that our citizens have good conditions for treatment, to see that the state is responsible for them and to take care of them, but that our health care system and our healthcare professionals are working in the best possible conditions. As for the figures, specifically related to the health ministry's budget, my colleagues and Dr. Laketic and Dr. Barisic spoke in detail. I will now only repeat for the public – the overall budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020 is by 73.38% compared to the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2019 after the rebalancing. Of the total increase, the health ministry, without funds and biomedicine, increased by 76.43%. It would take me one two hours to explain what all the money in the health ministry's budget is for, but we'll discuss it in detail. The Serbian Progressive Party and I together with my colleagues will support the 2020 draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64190	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64191	First, I would like to, and the minister is not here, to congratulate the minister for respecting the calendar and for bringing this budget before December 1st. The second thing I want to say is that the income was originally planned and that he determined the expenditure, because by 2012, they were going backwards. The cost, then the income. This income is said to be conservative. I don't like the word, I'd rather say it's credible and it's rational and it's not developmental and it's larger by 1.7%. Since the projected rebalancing revenue, from revenue that will be made on the basis of the results by nine months, differs by 1.9 billion in favour of revenues by nine months, this percentage will be lower. It is the least evidence that he is not electoral because he is real and objective to the bone and will surely be more than 100% achieved. What would I like to point out? A deficit of 0.5 state and 0.3 republican is planned. I personally advocate that there is no difference between state and republican. It must all be republican, to return it all to the budget. The second thing, by reducing the contribution, by increasing the untaxed part, we have freed the economy by 13 billion. Minister, listen to me, just to tell you one very important thing. As an important plan is an important projection of income, it is very important to implement budgets, responsibilities and controls, and therefore is the most responsible Ministry of Finance. Speaking of ministries, it should be said that seven ministries received less money than in 2019. Thus, the government received less 4.7% of the 2019 funding. Your Ministry, Ministry of Finance, 11.2% less. My colleague used to say, I don't want to talk about the health ministry that got more, just because of the public, I'd say that the funds for treatment abroad, you didn't say that, increased by 42, 45 million and total 528.8 million. So there's no need for someone to be treated abroad through text messages, to start foundations, to have that problem politicized. The state has been able and prepared and allocated enough resources to allow all those who cannot be treated in Serbia to be treated abroad. I would just touch the Ministry of Education and say that the Ministry of Education got 15.2 billion, that 53.3% of it goes to personal incomes. I respect everything that's been done at the Ministry of Education about computers, digitization. The ministry can't function without a professor, without a teacher, without a man. It's all in him. He must be pleased. This is the current minister's understanding, and therefore the sum of these funds is directed towards an increase in wages. How's the budget? This is all seen in this table, which is – the basis of macroeconomic assumptions. There are more of these species here, but I would just quote, or say two, three. First, personal consumption. Personal consumption will be increased as a single sum of GDP, resulting in an increase in pensions and salaries. Why will GDP increase? Because all that money that the pensioners get and the clerks get back into the budget. And here it's very nice, that in 2019, it's going to be 2.4, now it's going to be 2.7. The second term in GDP is state spending. There was 0.7% there last year. There's a goal to be as small as possible. This year it's going to be 0.3%. What I'm particularly interested in is the GDP deflator. What's that? It's a ratio of nominal and real GDP. It's the current and old price ratio and it's going to be 3.4%. Most importantly, in the current account of the Republic or the state, there will be a minus 5.3 GDP. But most importantly, direct investment will be 6.3%. So we're going to match that minus and we're going to be positive, because these are the two things that add up. The other thing I want to talk about in short, more descriptive, is tax. Taxes, ministers, are 1.231 billion or 86.61%. What do we have to do? We've done a lot of things, but we can do more. The total amount of tax must be higher, but the tax per unit must be lower. Now the question is – how? By increasing the volume. So the size of those who pay taxes must be higher, because there are people, there are entities that still don't pay taxes. It has to be a permanent task of tax administration, tax inspections, which works well, but which must do better. So we have to be interested in those who pay taxes and those who don't pay taxes, to find out who doesn't pay taxes. But when the volume increases, we owe it, or it would be good if the individual tax was reduced. Let's take the property tax. There's always talk about it, and every year it gets bigger. Well, it's increasing 2%. Look, 2%, it's a lot for someone, depending on how big the lead is. Why is this tax, if action is now being taken in all cities to increase the number of those who pay the property tax, 50% of these funds are aimed at reducing the property tax? It will act in a stimulating way to make the number of tax payers bigger. The next theme, my favorite, is foreign reserve. I have to commend the NBS, who's been buying nine tons of gold lately. Every country's gold reserves, including Russia, must be in gold. Gold is the safest. The Russians had it in dollars, now the dollar's out, so they took the euro. It's best to go to gold. We currently have 30.4 tons of gold. That's 10% of our total foreign reserve. That's 1.3 billion euros in money. One kilo of gold is currently worth 43,408.67 euros. I advocate that such a policy be conducted, which I suggest, Minister, that foreign reserves should be expressed in gold as much as possible. That's what Russia, China, India do, that's what all the countries do. I think Russia has 2,112 tons of gold, and the dollar has to come down from the market scene, because it's the political instrument of America. You saw now that the Russian Venezuelan dollar was transported in containers. So they gave it to them in the containers. Another very important topic, Minister, is the conversion of the loan. You did a very good job last year. I haven't had a chance to discuss it. It's kind of hard to get a chance to talk. You are, and you correct me if you don't, five loans that were shown in dollars turned into euro. Well done. This should continue, therefore, to go to the euro, because one moment the Germans will convert the euro 1 and reduce it to 50%. On the other hand, they used high-interest loans by 2012. These loans should be paid in accordance with some kind of accelerated procedure. How? If it can come from liquid assets, and if it can't, I suggest that new loans be taken that are now more favourable, where the interest rate is much lower, so this new loan returns the old loan, because I say, these by 2012, they were taking loans with 7, 8, 10 and 12%. The second thing you did well in 2019, to commend you, you're seven billion, correct me if I'm wrong, you've paid off the euro bonds, or you've bought it. So, you're the one who got rid of it. These bonds come in, they have time to reach 2020 and 2021. Is that right? So, by doing so, you've made it easier, you've cut expenses in this year's 2020. It's a very wise and very good move. Not to take time, because there are still my colleagues who want to discuss it, and I've often been able to have no time, just to say one thing. Minister, I stand by and claim that we must strive, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot show everything, so our attraction, in gross national income. I know you understand. I was disappointed by the President of the Fiscal Council, whom I could not explain, that the GDP category imposed by multinational companies and that GDP does not show the right situation in countries where direct foreign capital is placed, meaning gross national income. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64192	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, respected finance ministers, I am pleased that after three years we have come into a situation to discuss next year's budget by making this debate the most possible, in the circumstances given, more dignified than it was before. In the last two years, we've had a situation where we've been overwhelmed by the amendments to the Budget Law for the next calendar year, and with that, we've come into a situation where the most important law in a calendar year is shadowed by something that shouldn't have happened. This year, for our great happiness and pleasure, that's not the case. We've got twice as much time to argue. And, if you noticed, the MEPs didn't even ask for an extra agenda, considering this debate in that sense unique and we didn't want to disrupt her integrity. In the principle debate at the press conference, my colleagues discussed the draft budget in principle, and unfortunately we cannot agree with the finance minister that this law and the proposed budget for 2020 are developmental. We, unfortunately, think the fact is such that this budget for the next calendar year is actually pre-election. This can also be seen from the fact that there has been a significant increase in public sector wages. I am not going to use data that some opposition colleagues often say to the public, not taking care of whether these data is correct or not, therefore, in the public sector is doing slightly less than 60,000 citizens who are employed in temporary and occasional jobs. What we have been able to hear in the public lately, is that, I have to use this term, so my opposition colleagues often flirt with this data and then bring out in public the information that 250 thousand citizens are doing on temporary and occasional jobs and in this context they are then talking about, conditionally speaking, the budget and financial resources that are set out in the budget, to manipulate these citizens. Public sector manipulation is far deeper than citizens working in the public sector on temporary and occasional jobs, which according to official data from the independent body of the Fiscal Council and the advisory body of the government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, accounts for only 60,000 citizens. Why is this a deep problem, and not so layishly presented, how sometimes colleagues know that, for the purpose of propaganda, they take advantage of themselves in a unique way? Because this increase is coming another time. The first increase was when we discussed budget rebalance here for this calendar year. Then we had one budget increase of slightly less than 10%. Now we are again facing an almost identical amount, i.e. the salaries of those who are employed in the public sector have been practically increased by about a fifth compared to what they looked like earlier. This increase essentially took place at the expense of the entire economy and at the expense of all people who are being led as employees in the Republic of Serbia. Among them, there are not only those who are employed in the public sector, there are many who work and operate in the private sector and they, unfortunately, cannot sense the benefits arising from such a regulated and planned budget for the next calendar year. That's more what my colleagues were talking about. I will only remind you that the Modern Serbia Party is very concerned that the private sector is finally equalised, if not put into a more priority position with the public sector, i.e. to implement a comprehensive tax reduction and contributions that would practically relieve the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which would, of course, produce a necessary reaction and pay increase, not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector. People would get rid of themselves, they could spend more, and what we actually substitute through these, or what we insist on through high taxes and contributions, we could share in the same way and enjoy, if we let people spend more, and replace that tax through the extra value tax. I'm sorry that only the finance minister is sitting here, and that's essentially a big shame. So, after these commendations that I had at the beginning, in the sense that we have enough time to discuss the budget and use this time wisely and argued, to get citizens to know how the government of the Republic of Serbia has their money, it is terrible and embarrassing that today no one but the finance minister is sitting here today. Only the Minister of Labour sat down a little while ago. I sincerely hope that he will return, since one part of my debate applies to his portfolio as well. I repeat again - I hope that the other ministers will also appear in the discussion of details. This particular part of the debate concerns the work of the Ministry of Labour. I'll remind you that with a recent budget rebalance, we've set eight billion increases for this ministry. I was kind of happy to see that budget rebalance, that it would be focused on financial support for the family with children. It was all like that after I read the explanation in that rebalancing. However, what happened was, in fact, only the correction of earlier mistakes, which is that the law had certain women who used maternity leave to which the previous version of the law was concerned and thus corrected that error in budget planning for 2019. The increase seen this year from 1.9 billion, unfortunately, speaks of that there are no substantial changes in the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children and I as a folk MP in front of the Modern Serbia Party and of someone who has launched the "Moms Are Law" initiative, I speak very often in public about the fact that Finance Minister and Minister Djordjevic have to answer questions of mothers in Serbia -- when are the fundamental changes to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children? I'll remind you that I've calculated somewhere with a rough bill that it takes about 20 billion dinars to provide each mother with compensation at least at the height of a republican minimum. This amount, unfortunately, we see, for example, that the state pays in terms of fines and foams in terms of the court costs that the state has towards the citizens of Serbia, so that we can make cuts at various levels, in various areas and we could ensure that our moms live more dignity than they've had before. However, in this 2020 budget, we cannot see anything about it. In public, on two occasions, we had opportunities to hear about how significant funds would be allocated. We recently heard a statement by Parliament President Maja Gojkovic saying that about 200 million support will be granted to families with children. My hunches are heading in that direction that this will be set to support projects led by the minister without portfolios, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I'd like the finance minister, if he's able and familiar with this detail, and he's supposed to be familiar with it, as the next year's budget promoter, to answer me what is the conditionality of this money being spent on? Whether this money will be spent on projects in local self-government, including in the past and in the previous year we had the opportunity to see that there are some projects that unfortunately do not justify the purpose. One of such projects is a play in Sombor which, unfortunately, I do not know how it can contribute to supporting parenting in this local self-government, or in the city of Sombor. We had a situation where Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as a portfolio-free minister in charge of demographics and population policy, talks about support in terms of home work and helping young parents, to banalize, even to the level of ironing their laundry. Therefore, support for young families in Serbia should not be so banalised. People are capable enough to set their priorities on their own. If this country has funds, and we think that there are only wrong priorities, it is necessary to allow young married couples and those who have decided to give birth to children here in Serbia, to determine for themselves what they want to spend the money they would eventually be given. We are also from Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who is unfortunately not invited to speak at all about this issue in the way that she insists on doing so in public... So, these questions must be answered by Minister Djordjevic and Minister Sinisa Mali, she recently said that support for the first child would amount to about 300,000 to 350,000 dinars. I can't see it from this draft budget. I am not sure that 1.9 billion increases, planned under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, could cover these announcements that were spoken of in public. Also, given that this law has been in force for 17 months, and that I have been pointing to this problem for more than two years, the question arises – how are we, as a state, going to respond to the fact that some mothers in Serbia, already, are terribly damaged by the application of this bad law, and is it in the plan that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will eventually adopt something that we could call a Lex specialise in the sense that those families who have suffered bad effects due to the application of such a bad law will be compensated? I don't want to say it again, because I know some of my colleagues have talked about it before. Therefore, in the same way it should be answered to the compensation of pensioners who have suffered the consequences of poor application of the Interim Pension Reduction Act which lasted for a full period of four years. Since the Minister of Labour is not in the O.R. today, there are obviously no other ministers and I would really like to ask them today or at least to have someone answer me, if they can answer that question, and it concerns concrete support for people with disabilities. In Serbia, the issue of accessibility is very problematic for various public institutions, starting with schools, colleges, health homes, spas, various other resorts. Therefore, even those public institutions primarily intended for treatment are not accessible to persons with disabilities, and this is one of the big and burning issues. Also, one complaint from the government of the Republic of Serbia that these issues and many other issues are not specifically answered multi-resoriously, is simply that only one minister answers questions, and this specific issue of accessibility concerns Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, i.e. the Ministry of Construction and Traffic, as regards the Minister of Trade, regarding the Minister of Labour, regarding the Minister of Finance, etc. So these questions should finally be raised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the same table that I believe they sit on a daily basis and address the problem of accessibility of public institutions in Serbia. Among them I point out the special problem of spas. My colleague, lovely Mihajlovska, spoke of this and pointed out the problem. So she as a disabled person, with health problems she has, can't access a spa that's meant to treat the problem she's faced. It is not only her problem, as the MPs, she has only the possibility to speak louder, but other citizens who have been meeting back with this problem for decades, compared to the rest of the public. It is necessary to comply with the current rules and legal solutions and finally start applying them. In this respect, it is also necessary to provide certain resources and to help public institutions ensure accessibility of their facilities. Also, the health minister isn't here today. Yesterday we heard his announcement, and we strongly welcome it, which says the Republic Health Insurance Fund will allocate funds to treat certain patients. In our country he specifically pointed out, suffering from multiple sclerosis and suffering from certain types of cancer. The question of patients who have been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis I've dealt with here on several occasions, and I'd really like to ask him some questions right now. Here, please, Minister of Finance, give them to him. So the question is, what exactly are the latest medicines planned next year to be available on the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Fund? For the treatment of these patients, there are 14 medicines registered, of which only four medicines are available to patients suffering from multiple sclerosis. So we are interested in who these are, for how many patients will these latest high-efficiency drugs be available, how many patients with multiple sclerosis will be treated in Serbia on the burden of RFZO, etc.? Unfortunately, the minister isn't here. Just for a little while, I'll look back on the last public-shocking affair, I won't be long. So, I don't want to participate in the lynching that's happening today in public space, but I certainly condemn what happened and what the University of Belgrade has determined. It is really not clear to me, dear Minister, since we from the Modern Serbian Party know perfectly what knowledge you have and that you must be one of the most prepared ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we are simply wondering what you really need. We sincerely hope that you, too, will resign for moral reasons. This academic question has been a question that's been going on for decades. It is best described in the film "Falsifier" by director Goran Markovic. Unfortunately, we have to deal with this question once. What scares me is that on this, unfortunately, it's going to stop and we're not going to get into a situation to review all the cases of academic dishonesty that have been eating up society in the last few decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64194	Thank you, colleague Macura. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. No, I beg your pardon, the word first has a representative, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Excuse me, colleague Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64195	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, let me refer to some of the information and comments we've had the opportunity to hear. I'll do what you instructed me to do. It's about the nature of the budget. This 2020 budget is an absolute development budget, a budget that looks to the future after four or five years of fiscal consolidation. The goal of this budget is to speed up the growth rates of our economy. In the third quarter of this year, 4.7% is the growth of our economy. I expect in the last quarter of 5.2% to 5.5%. I don't remember having such healthy growth rates ten years ago. That's good, that's saying that our economy is recovering, that it's going in the right direction, that the fiscal consolidation measures have been successful. Now with these measures behind us, we are turning a new leaf, we want to speed up economic growth along with investments in infrastructure and travel and rail through the rise of Serbia's standard of living. I would like to remind you, given the subject you have launched, that in the next few days, a week or two, as President Vukic has promised, we will come out with a proposal for a national investment plan for the next four or five years. Two hundred million euros are scheduled to be spent further on what goes into the budget for the most effective policy to support our young people, supporting young couples, supporting exactly what you've been talking about, and that's the program to have as many children as possible, as many babies. The information I have, not to be negative to the countries in the environment, but as far as I understand it, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, of all the countries in the environment that have a fall of birth, we are the only ones with a rise – 615 babies this year more than last. I think it's a good result, still insufficient, but I think it shows that we are on the right track when the government of the Republic of Serbia's ultimate policy is at stake. We planned 65 billion dinars in 2002 as part of the rights of users in the field of protection of families and children. It's for 1.9 billion dinars more than in 2019. I have here a figure for 2008 -- 26 billion dinars were allocated for the most intelligent policy, and in 2020, I said, 65 billion. It's a big difference. That's not the 10% difference, 20%. That's the difference from almost three times that clearly shows how important our most important policy is and when you already have the result that slowly, but surely the number of babies is growing, the number of children in our country is growing, then I guess there's something good we've done. So, in 2017, 52 billion dinars were allocated to these rights of users, in 2018 53.6 billion, in 2019 already 63 billion. As we slowly complete this period of fiscal consolidation, we open up space for both salaries and pensions and for greater investment in the most innovative policy. Next year, I said, even more to 65 billion, and that's a policy we're not going to give up on. I've got the data here, and it's probably familiar to you too, according to the new law for profit and other fees, it's covered in June of this year, that's the last piece of information I have, 44,926 maternity care, and in June 2018, according to the old law, the last data, 42,653 maternity care. So we have a number of women who have succeeded under the new law who have acquired the possibility of exercising their rights after the birth of a child. I also have a list here, probably, and you know, and women who aren't in a working relationship, who carry out their own work on their own, owners of agricultural land, employed on the basis of temporary and occasional jobs, etc. So we have a bigger scope and we have more money. As a result of good luck, God forbid we have even more babies. In doing so, we increased the allocations for the parental supplement – for the first child 100,000 dinars. Maybe I'd have to repeat this every day, because this is very important. Perhaps the largest number of parents or parents who plan to be, or people who plan to be parents, do not know, is one-time payment of 100,000 dinars for the first child. For another child, 240,000 dinars paid into 24 equal months of war. For a third child, even a million and 440,000 dinars from the budget are allocated and paid in 120 equal months of war. For a fourth child, two million and 160,000 dinars. It's a new law. They're new rights. These are new opportunities. I say, God forbid we have more babies than we have this year, last year. Finally, to finish my presentation with the number of employees, it was one of your comments. I have here accurate data, since 2012, the number of employees in our country has been 2.228,343 employees. Then, slowly that number grows, in 2019 it is 2,898,108 employees. So when you look at 600 and something, almost 700,000 people in the past. The employment rate has increased from 35.5% since 2012, to 49% in 2019. We're even better at projections for 2020. We expect an even greater number of employees. Of course, the reverse unemployment rate is decreasing, and that's good. It says that there are more opportunities for employment, more factories, that it is not only that male or female, mother or father in the family have a job, but also another, or child one or the other, which is good. Our average earnings are growing, in December there will be over 500 euros. The promise we made will be fulfilled. Growth and average earnings from month to month. As of January 1st, we have a minimum labour price increase of 3,000 dinars in absolute terms, which is the biggest increase ever. So, in terms of living standards and increasing the number of employees, I think we're on the right track. Finally, in the 2020 budget, and we reduce profits burdens, just to encourage new employment and encourage competition in our country, make ultimately Serbia more competitive and attractive. I hope you get the answers from the other ministers you've asked, I think I've responded to everything I've known and what's in my jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64196	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Comrade Macura, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64197	Statistics is a very interesting science, which can be very well manipulated. When in public you hear the information that 615 babies were born more than in the previous calendar year, it really sounds impressive, however, you forget that other information that seems to me, much harder and more serious for our country, which is that every year 1,000 first babies are born less. This does not mean that families who have decided for children, that they have extended their family's claim, but have decided to expand their family elsewhere outside Serbia. We have a serious one problem, and it is a large number of people who leave this country and spread their families elsewhere on the planet, not in Serbia. So, manipulations with statistical data, it's possible that you don't even know everything about this subject, because this isn't just a matter of the Ministry of Finance, but it's very easy to play the public with just individual figures and some statistics and neglect of others. That's why I think there's a problem with a comprehensive approach to these topics. What you have stated in the sense that the Ministry of Labour is more concerned in the last few years than some governments in 2018 and earlier, however, it is true, however, it can always be better. That's actually the point of this whole story and this country that suffers the consequences that a large number of citizens are leaving us, it needs to find as many ways and space as possible to keep people here. What you're saying is that some women are recognized by this law, and have not previously been recognized, it's true, ministers, however, are not recognized in the way that they would essentially respond to the problems they face. In this sense, this means that women working on temporary and occasional jobs, agricultural insurance companies, etc. are recognized. The problem, however, is that they continue to receive very small amounts in their accounts. It's about women who receive a few hundred dinars, or a few thousand dinars, and that's why all statistics need to be viewed as a whole, not isolated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64198	Thank you, colleague Macura. The word has a representative of the proposed Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64199	Thank you very much. Tell me, is there 615 more babies or not? Is that manipulation, lying or cheating statistics, like you say, or is there 615 babies more? I don't think there's a lot of lies or fraud around here. In your answer, you started a topic that is very important to us, which is young people leaving or not leaving Serbia. That's the problem we're afraid to face. We fully accept that we're talking about it. We're aware of the problem. The problem, of course, has not occurred in the last year or two, since the 1990s. What I think is very important for our youngsters to stay is two or three things. First, this optimism and potential and better tomorrow that we are trying to create through infrastructure development, through salary increases, through the possibility of new employment, in order for our young people to achieve a Serbian dream, not a dream in America, Australia, Canada or elsewhere. This is very important, although the unemployment rates remain very high among young people, they are double as they were in 2013. Double down. On the other hand, I just said, we're going out very quickly with a plan for the next four to five years, so for the next few days, weeks to two days. We prepare it hastily, and this is a national investment plan where we have 500m euros, not dinars, the euro has been allocated to support young people, building apartments for young people, additional subsidies for their employment, and already at the next session we will have opportunities to discuss, tax laws aimed at further incentives for youth employment in terms of liberating or cutting off a large part of the tax and profit contributions if for the first time someone is employed. So, we're aware of the problem and we're going to go to it, it's very important that in the past few years we solve the problem of this consolidation, that we have sound finance, that we have the money that we make, that we don't take expensive loans, because that's a prerequisite for leaving your kids better tomorrow. Now, together with you here in the end, let's see what is the real balance or balance in which the growth of our economy should go, wages, pensions, reduction of tax burdens, investment in infrastructure. So these are all the elements of that plan. Finally, the plan is also pictured in the 2020 budget. For me it's one new page in our country's economic policy and I say in other elements of the budget, such as education and education, such as social policy, you have health care, you end up with an increase in budgets, more money to invest. I hope and you will agree perhaps, perhaps not, after all, it is a matter of individual perception, that it is precisely more money and gives the possibility for better conditions both in schools and kindergartens and in health homes, for better quality services. That's why we were fighting for an 8-15% salary increase and for nurses and doctors and for educators and nurses in social institutions, so that everyone can be more satisfied in order to in some way improve the quality of their service to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, be more content in themselves, and through the most innovative policy and these 200m euros, I think we'll do the right thing and that more babies and better days are just coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64200	I thank the ministers. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64201	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, we have before us the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, based not on real sources, possibilities and needs of our country and our citizens, which marks the completion of the process of consolidation of public finances, which, of particular importance, determines the start of our country's development. The key feature of the 2020 budgetary policy is the distribution of fiscal space, the increase in living standards, i.e. the increase in wages and pensions, the promotion of growth through increased public investment and the tax redundancy of the economy. The proposed budget is of developmental character. It encourages real growth in the economy of 4%, which is realistic, given that in the third quarter of this year, economic growth is 4.7% and that at the end of the year it will be above the projected 3.5. The budget never envisions greater public investment of 198.9 billion dinars, which shift the rate forward, and there are reliefs in support of the economy, which will certainly affect the creation of a better business climate, the arrival of new investors, and the reduction of the unemployment rate, which is already at a historic minimum today. The economic reforms and results that our country has achieved since 2012 until today, under the leadership of President Aleksandr Vukic, are more than visible to Serbian citizens, except for self-invited leaders in the image of tycoon Djilas, Obradovic, Jeremic, Marinika, Trifunovic, who instead of being a corrective factor, inventing affairs, destroying everything in front of them, even by killing Alexander Vukic and his family, his associates, and all those who see the reality of the eyes of the truth, who are saying that Serbia today is becoming a decent and orderly country in which the work can live normally. About the law, of course, they don't say a word. They are only interested in how to bring down Vukic with violence and street and take over the state register as a prey for their personal wealth, and then they would not suffer from the mafia's way of acting like Mark Bastic, unfortunately not the only one in their ranks. We have not been able to hear the opinion of the leaders for Serbia's repossessment, is it good for citizens that the proposal marks the start of a new national investment plan, which identifies funds for the Hungarian-Serbian railway project, the construction of the Surcin-Obrovac highway, Preljina-Požega, Pojate-Preljina, Belgrade-Sarajevo, Novi Belgrade-Surcin, fast road, Novi Pazar-Tutin, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, Osrežnica-Bubanj Potok, as well as for the 5.000km rehabilitation project of regional state and local roads over the next three years. Of course we won't even hear them, they care about Serbia and its ways. They basically showed this from October 5, 2000, until 2012, when they deleted the country from the map of Europe. In Novi Knezevic, from which I come, citizens look forward to the beginning of the implementation of the national investment plan and believe it will find a place to build the road of Novi Knezevic-Montenegro, as a link between the Djala border crossing at the Serbian-Hungarian border with Kickinda, which creates the shortest relationship on the Segedin-Kikinda-Zrenjanin route. It is part of this road route of 15.4 km, which was started in 2006 when barely 10% of the total projected works were carried out, just like everything else they did until 2012 in Serbia and in Vojvodina until 2016. Let's just think of Corridor 10. Serbia built 320km of highways in the previous four years, according to the highest European and world standards, and by ending Corridor 10, we returned Serbia to the transit map of Europe, because we are, the shortest route between the East and the West, and by completing these works we have provided significantly greater funds for new investment in road infrastructure. According to President Aleksandar Vukic's idea in 2013, the Public Investment Management Office, which manages the business of restoring public property facilities, was organized. For these purposes, in the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, the amount of 13 billion and 24 million is defined, which is 4% more than in 2019, especially thanks to the parents of students of the “Jovan Jovanovic Dragon” elementary school from Novi Knezevec, as 267 million dinars will be invested in this school in 2020, with about 55 million dinars this year. The new Prince, I could never do that. I can't argue that agriculture is not sufficiently, or less, said 5% of the tax revenues, and that it is deliberately silent to invest in agriculture from the AP Vojvodina budget, local self-government budgets, direct investment from Abu Dhabi credit, for the IPRARD programme irrigation and disposal systems, as well as funds from the Office of Ministers without portfolios, Mr Krkobic, when it comes to cooperatives and cooperatives. All of this forgets the funds of land leases in state property, which are distributed to local self-governments of the AP and Republika Srpska budget, which are directly returned to agriculture under the law. The responsibility of this government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic towards farmers, as well as all citizens of Serbia, is just being seen through access to Section 24 for agriculture, water and forestry. If this government had managed the fact that in 2020 it was an election year and wanted to deal with the promises and the purchase of votes, it would have increased incentives and subsidies for agricultural holdings, so that we could not call this budget absolutely developmental, but partly electoral. Fortunately, he's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64202	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64203	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today I will briefly discuss the proposal for a budget bill for the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with a special reference to the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. In preparation for the discussion and analysing the 2020 draft budget, and given that President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian government's strategic goal is to reduce unemployment, I focused particular attention on the very budget set out in this intention, as well as the funds that enable the realisation of the job within the relevant ministry. At first, I must stress that thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are serious about the future of our country, we are free to say that for the first time now we have a draft budget whose key feature is the even distribution of financial resources in order to increase living standards, i.e. raise wages and pensions, encourage GDP growth through increased public investment and tax redundancies. The proposal for a 2020 budget will contribute to further raising citizens' standards and economic growth. It will contribute to greater investment in infrastructure, better conditions for treatment, education, investment in culture and sports, greater social protection, population policy and environmental protection. According to Prime Minister Brnabic, the budget was made so as not to endanger the stability of public finances and the pace of public debt, i.e. the budget for next year is not an election but a developmental one. Respecting the fact that the budget allocated 295.4 billion dinars to salaries and 571.2 billion dinars to pensions for our oldest citizens, then capital investments in the draft budget were planned for this purpose 198.9 billion, where most of the funds would go to traffic and railway infrastructure, but that wages and pensions would increase, and as our minister, Sinisa Mali, said, the earned money would return to citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party has promised citizens a better life in every respect, and what we have promised to accomplish is precisely through the adoption of this 2020 budget. The essence of SNS policy is that citizens are satisfied and that their lives are easier and that they can finally breathe with their lungs. The proposal for a 2020 budget is clearly developmental and increased funding is foreseen in all sectors. In the case of martial law, funds are provided at more than 700 million dinars, as well as 20 million dinars to support the association in the field of martial law protection. As part of the active employment policy, significant funds are provided to support retraining to implement the unemployment retraining programme in the Information and Communication Technology Sector. This clearly indicates that the budget proposed for the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs will provide better conditions for social protection users, as well as for the rise of standards of employees in social protection institutions. With this draft budget, we can only expect Serbia to continue to develop faster and achieve even better results. Finally, we have a healthy budget and stable finances, so we have room for the state to take measures that reflect the country's environment, which will, among other things, prevent young and educated people from leaving, and motivate those young people who have left Serbia to return. Given that the 2020 draft budget is realistic, balanced and represents a turning point for our country's economic community, the SNS will vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64204	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64205	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here is the third day we have been discussing the draft budget law for 2020, the most important act in the course of one year brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately for me, except that the letter addressed the minister, colleagues from the so-called Alliance for Serbia did not participate in the work, and that speaks of them, it says they do not care about the future, that they are not interested in the development of Serbia, but only their personal promotion. They dig their own pit, they don't participate in the work, they don't have them in front of the people, they don't want to make a very correct and quality proposal for the budget to make remarks if they have them. Even in this three-day debate, we didn't have any more serious objections, except to point out that it was a pre-election budget, which is not true. I would like to list this little time left in our parliamentary group in short all that this budget brings. First of all, it is a positive assessment of the Fiscal Council in much of the draft budget, which has not been the case so far. Among other things, it is said: well planned revenues, well and conservatively, unlike counterparts of Professor Jokic who do not like that term, tax policies and properly directed, expenditures planned objectively and improved structure, planned real GDP growth of 4%, deficit planned 0.3% and 20.2 billion dinar, respectively, which is a historic success, if we know that the 2014 budget proposal was a deficit of 7% of GDP and 2.2 billion euros respectively. The fall in public debt from 51.9% to 50.3% of GDP next year, and the 2021 and 2022 strategy envisions the decline to 45-47% of GDP. The budget's been developed. Yeah, he's developed. And why do I say that? Because capital investment is projected and planned for 199 billion dinars or 15% of the budget. The remarks also raised by the Fiscal Council, as well as by colleagues who participated in the debate during the three days concerned primarily the increase in public sector wages. They are wrong, and it has been pointed out several times by the minister, citing that salaries have been raised in the last three years, when it comes to the public sector. So she's saying it's a pre-election salary increase not drinking water. Why are the salaries increased? After all, public sector salaries are mostly very low and should be motivated by those people who work to work quality, to work self-absorbed and to know that they too will have benefits from all of this done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. Another reason that is? We mentioned earlier, a colleague mentioned young people, how to stop young people. So one of the reasons and ways to stop our young experts is to raise our salaries. When I think about it, I mean health care, I think about education, and if we stimulate doctors, if we stimulate nurses, they'll have receipts that are close to receiving in the European Union, when you look at the costs they're waiting for there, and in the end, by certain laws, we've made it possible for these same people to have private practice and after what they're doing in state institutions. When I say it is not a pre-election budget, I will again refer to what the minister has repeatedly pointed out, that public sector wage participation is only 9.5% of GDP, that is, if it is Croatia 11.1%), if Slovenia is 11.2%, and that the average is 9.9%. That means we're doing quality work, thinking about the future and working for the future. What fellow doctors have repeatedly pointed out in their discussions, I would like to point out because with me it opens up some emotions, it's a matter of treatment abroad, primarily of treating children. So here in this budget outside of those funds provided by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, another 500 million dinars were provided for treatment primarily of diseases that cannot be treated successfully in our country. I'm glad that I've been involved in a lot of foreign visits and that the children have come back successfully. In the end, I shall mention my city of the Kings, I must mention it. In this budget there are, here, I'll say only three things, that's something that I'm also emotionally bound to do – urban regeneration, follow-up, first building is done and ends, the continuation of urban regeneration on Dosite Street, the Moravski Corridor and the Shipman-Kraljevo airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64206	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the SNS parliamentary group no longer has the remaining time to discuss in principle. I give my word to the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64207	Thank you, Chairman. I will use my right, under the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, under Article 11, to speak in the native Russian language, so that if you want you can put on headphones. Dear People's MPs, ministers, at the very beginning I want to pay attention to a few things about the 2020 draft budget in which Vojvodina, a already devastated region, turns out to be even more miserable. The Social Democratic League of Vojvodina has, unfortunately, changed almost nothing since Serbia's constitution was adopted to date. The constitution in Article 84(4) says the AP Vojvodina budget must be at least 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In 2020, the Autonomous province of Vojvodina will receive 75 billion dinars from the republican budget, with 47 billion transfer funds for education, health care and other needs, and only 32.5 billion dinars for other investment needs. There's little left to fund capital investments. Since the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina has not been passed so far, funds directed towards this province in the budget can only be guessed. Minister Sinisa Mali said yesterday that Vojvodina gets more than it owns, i.e. it gets more than 8%. There were a number of customs duties, although we do know that customs from Horgos, for example, do not stay in Vojvodina, although it might be good. Up to 8% where, for example, the number and customs are listed, in my opinion, customs administrations, or salaries for customs workers, officials, and these are still transfer funds. As for the I-B Road Construction Project, Novi Sad-Ruma, which is the Fruskogorski Corridor, the draft budget only gave the assumption that larger investments could be made in 2020. It is seen in the intention that unnamed Chinese banks will receive a 550m-euro loan, however, only part of the budget mentioning the borrowing plans is discussed. There are no concrete expenditures in these euro area countries from which these funds would be financed. If it is planned to start construction in 2020, then the budget position that corresponds to the expenditures that these works represent must be seen in the division, and this is not in the expenditure plans for 2020. As far as the French Corridor is concerned, I think it is so realistic that its construction in 2020 is as real as the Belgrade subway. So, I don't think the Fruscogorian Corridor is going to be anything. I'm saying, it's a list of wishes and possibilities that a loan will be taken from the Chinese and other funds, but who is and when did he sit down with the Chinese to discuss the loan? Nobody. For example, we in the Assembly have not ratified any agreement that would approve these loans that should already be realised in 2020. There's always talk of the Ruma-Loznica road, it's the biggest investment in Vojvodina, and that's one time. That it is really the only time this map, which was also talked about yesterday by Nada Lazic. Goran Vesic praises Belgrade's 2020 budget these days and says it will be the largest in the city's history and will amount to 134 billion dinars. I ask – is Belgrade a region like Vojvodina and do the Belgrade citizens make up one third of Serbia's population as Vojvodina? It's not like that. Belgrade's budget will be 134 billion dinars, and the entire Vojvodina budget, one region only 76 billion. I ask the government, I ask the finance minister is this the regional development of Serbia that propagates this government? Centralisation through the new 2020 budget is not only seen through Belgrade's budget, but also through the Novi Sad budget, where Novi Sad is centralised and again the largest funds for this Vojvodina budget go to the city. So I ask again if really all citizens of the Republic of Serbia should move to Belgrade or Novi Sad? Farmers have been demanding for years, expecting the agricultural budget from the republican cash register to be at least 5% of the total budget. It is also a legal obligation that the state does not respect. In the new 2020 budget, the share of agriculture in the total national budget of agriculture will be 3.54%, which farmers did not expect. The subsidy in agriculture remains the same 4,000 dinar per hectare and 1,200 dinar per hectare per hectare for diesel fuel. I'll just make some price differences. Prices in 2011 – oil cost 95 dinars, corn 24, wheat 28, and subsidies per hectare amounted to 14,000 dinars. Prices in 2019 – oil 165 dinars, corn 16 dinars, wheat 15 dinars, and subsidies 4,000 dinars. The funds for national councils of national minorities remained the same as in last year, funds allocated by the Office for Human and Minority Rights, which is 264 million dinars. At least 40 million dinars will be allocated from the budget fund. When this group turns out that national councils may have a little less resources than last year, because in 2019 it was 271 million, and this year, as I calculated, it would be 268 million dinars. Under the new National Councils Act, national councils have received new obligations that must be respected and these new commitments are financed, and the funds remain the same. So I wonder how it'll be possible to perform? I'm just going to list some of the commitments that have been received, and I really need to finance them from these funds. It's like paying, writing programs, paying for the translation of school records. Legal obligations and powers of national councils are increasing and this requires serious professional engagement of more people who would be employed in national councils and care for all areas, such as culture, education, information and official use of language. Legal constraints in terms of the amount of funds at an annual level, as well as the restriction that only 50% of the funds can be spent on salaries and other material costs, prevent adequate involvement of professionals, thus reducing the scope of activities in national councils. In other words, it's done as much as the funds allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64208	Thank you, colleague of the Papuas. The word has a proposalary representative, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64209	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I must refer to a speech that we have had the opportunity to hear precisely about the work of the truth and the true informing of the citizens of Serbia. With great gratitude for your exposure to a little joke, perhaps you should change your speech slowly when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget, you said almost every year you have the same speech, precisely because investments in the AP Vojvodina year by year are increasing not only in absolute terms but in relative terms compared to the Government of Serbia's budget. Before I explain this budget to you in detail, I just want to tell you around the city of Belgrade, you mentioned the city of Belgrade, most of the revenues are the original revenues of the city of Belgrade. So, it is not comparable, simply how much Belgrade makes from selling land, from the arrival of investors, from these cranes and everything else. After all, as Vojvodina profites from a large number of factories and everything, it is a matter of the city of Belgrade. So it's not the same and it's not comparable, after all. What is important to me is this, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, the support of AP Vojvodina was 66.8 billion dinars in 2020, 70.6 billion. So, for four billion dinars more. When you add to that, and when you add all other investments through all other institutions, ministries and so on, the total investment this year in AP Vojvodina's territory from the Republic of Serbia's budget is 91.1 billion dinars, and planned for 2020 100.1 billion, therefore, for ten billion dinars more. Not only in the absolute amount more than for 2019, it is 8.6% of the total revenue of the 2020 budget is 8.8. So also in the absolute and relative amount of investment and separation for the AP Vojvodina's growth. Now what are these additional investments that you mentioned in part, so let me get this straight. When I said Customs Administration, I didn't mean customs revenues, but I meant the construction of the Sot border crossing, which was financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget this year by 79 million dinars. So he stays in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The Vatican border crossing, 75.9 million dinars this year, 135.8 million dinars for 2020. Novi Sad – Ruma, 40 million dinars this year, 200 million dinars for 2020. Continuing construction and reconstruction and improvement of the Hungarian-Serbian railway, 9.7 billion, this year 14.6 billion next year. Well, Belgrade – Novi Sad – Subotica, goes through the territory of the AP Vojvodina, doesn't it? The construction of works on the E75 highway, that's the loop of Subotica, Kelebija, the loop of Subotica, a billion and 400 million dinars this year, 500 million dinars next year we'll end up with that "Ipilon" leg very soon. Construction of a drinking water treatment facility in Kikinda, phase two, 60 million dinars for next year. Enlargement of Sremska Mitrovica port capacity, 18 million dinars for next year. The improvement of ship translation conditions under the Tisa dam near Novi Beceje, 60m dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year. Expansion of Luke Bogoov, 62.4 million dinars for next year. Reconstruction and construction of the Horgos border crossing, the Subotica railway line – Segedin and so on. Subsidies to private enterprises in AP Vojvodina territory by the economy ministry 1.3 billion dinars this year, 1.68 billion dinars for 2020. They can now do so around the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, etc. Here, for example, the Republic Water Directorate, this year building a system for irrigation 362 million dinars, next year 509.3 million dinars. The Green Fund, an incentive for the reuse of zero dinar waste - 2019, 850 million dinars – 2020. Then you add... Of course, the Public Investment Management Office, not to forget, another billion dinars next year. A science and technology park in Novi Sad, 200 million dinars this year, another 200 million dinars next year. Construction of an educational research centre in the White Church 61.2 million dinars for next year. Reconstruction of the clinical centres of Vojvodina, 302.614,000 dinars for next year, more than 204,000 this year. So these are investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which go through the budget of the Republic of Serbia from 91.1 billion to 100.1 billion for 2020, and this tells you how important it is for us to continue and increase these investments and then we have crossed that level of 7% of which you are talking about, we are at 8.6% this year, to 8.8% even next year. As far as agriculture is concerned, that's where I'm going to end up, because that was your next comment, so our participation in the agriculture budget is growing from year to year in the total budget. We're together with IPARD2, and I talked about it yesterday, 5% of the budget, and next year we're at 5.2% of the budget. In this 2020 Act, most of the money, 45 is intended for subsidies. Of that money for the subsidies, 900,000 dinars is more than this year. In particular, I would point out that bigger incentives than this year will be provided by organic producers, 7,000 of them, and then cattle and winemakers, wine producers, and in terms of investments, funding amounting to 3.5 billion dinars, of which 2.4 billion are planned by the Republic Water Directorate and the Water Budget Fund in the water systems, of which is also done by the sewer system, which is largely on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So I think that these figures and these data fully show and confirm how much we focus on the AP Vojvodina, how much we want together with the rest of Serbia that part of Serbia to be a driver of development and the basis for a further and better future and an accelerated growth in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64210	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Comrade Orlic, do you want a replica of the presentation of your colleague, Papuga? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, I couldn't resist the opportunity to join a multilingual debate here, and that is one of the good indicators that Serbia is standing in the matter of state policies, against national minorities, and you also mentioned it in your debate. You will agree, not once, not rarely, is heard by our friends and partners from the EU who come to Serbia, who we meet anywhere, that Serbia is indeed one of the brighter examples of these policies at the level of the entire continent and that we have these issues arranged significantly better than many European countries, even members of the Union. I think that almost at the last meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, by our colleagues from the European Parliament, we have received an assessment that for those efforts that we have done recently as a state in the matter of textbooks and the organisation of them in different languages of national minorities, we have done a good job, so this is something they consider to be a very valuable result and there is a lot of it. These aren't the only examples. But Serbia has changed dramatically in a positive direction, I would say, when we talk about all these things that are the subject today. Minister, just to tell you 100 billion is worth everything that is directed towards the AP Vojvodina and we know that there are political differences in understanding or willingness to accept what we want in this way and what we won't do. We know that your party insists on not wanting to accept some things, but when we say it goes, for citizens living in Vojvodina territory, it goes for the territory itself, if it comes to crossings or infrastructure, it really is. So, a percentage of seven or eight, but the road knows where it's going. So 100 billion when you add up, everything, I don't think there's a mistake. Agriculture, you've heard, more than ever before, and this 100 billion for Vojvodina, I think it's more than ever before, so it's better than the previous year that was record. When you look, and for agriculture, better than before, and for, if you will, the territory of the Vojvodina on different grounds, whether I agree or not, what anyone wants to accept, to count there again, more than ever before. That's why I say Serbia is very different. Serbia has definitely changed for the better, and about our differences and that Serbia is changing, I think we also talked at that special session that we had here at the House of National Assembly, which was called on the formal proposal of your parliamentary group, precisely with the aim of discussing these differences in the AP Vojvodina case. It seems to me that this session is one of the good indicators that also the parliamentary practice in Serbia today is at some levels that we have never had in previous periods. I've taken the opportunity to remind myself of it, and it won't be Mrs. Papuga who resents it, to remind me, not only of us who are in this room, but also those who have dealt with these issues often in the past period, and in this room they don't sit. You certainly remember a number of different NGOs, they often addressed the National Assembly, with different grudges, observations that they were not satisfied with parliamentary practice, as they believe something should be done differently. About two or three months ago, we as a state conclude several important things, parliament changes its practice in a few ways and we ask them openly, well, if today the National Assembly of you who have always had only words of criticism for it, one bravo, one praise and a finding, really all that different NGOs have asked for, Serbia today can show, the Assembly can display in its everyday practice. Do you know what the answer was? They say we can't say it's all done yet. Why? What's the obstacle, is there no more duplication of different debates, like you said? There isn't. Is there no more use of the emergency procedure, whenever we think it is necessary, rather literally only when it requires the issue of European integration. Is 95% of the law now in a regular procedure? Was there an amendment that someone essentially disagreed with not changing anything better? Nothing, literally everything they asked for, both CRTA and CESID and Transparency, all the National Assembly showed that it was no problem to adopt. They say: We cannot give you confession, for there is one thing missing. What's missing? We asked, they say, to have a separate discussion about the budget, we asked for twice the time to discuss it. You see now, this session, I think it's a very good opportunity, the best possible opportunity for me to ask this question to be passed on, to transfer this call, to declare CRTA, CESID and Transparency, and everyone else who said that the National Assembly should do some things differently. From you gentlemen, since we are just discussing the budget as a separate agenda point, which is your essential final request, just in double time, which is your essential final request, we now expect a public recognition. Yeah, the National Assembly did exactly what we said they should do, if they want the highest standards. Yes, the National Assembly today meets the highest standards, which are even better than those considered European. That's a question for them. I believe they're watching this and someone's gonna pass it on to them. With this, the last thing you said was that the Assembly needed to do, was done. We expect CRTA, CESID and Transparency and others to say – good for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64212	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Right on the line, MP Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64213	I express public recognition that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia respects the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, and I think we have a very good example, that this is one of the locomotives and examples that we want to join the EU and show that we respect the rights of national minorities, so on my part, public recognition to all that I can use the native language. That is, as far as Minister Syniche Mali's reply is concerned, I would like to say, that is, to ask whether only Belgrade has the original incomes? Does he think Vojvodina has no original income? You said Belgrade's budget is that big, 143 billion dinars because Belgrade has the original funds? Then what about Vojvodina? In fact, the Duke doesn't have them or what if he has the budget set by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That's why the LSV is fighting for Vojvodina to get its original assets, as you say Belgrade has. What I'm saying is that everything you've listed is much less than what Belgrade has in those original means. All that you've listed is Sot-Horgosh and all the paths that you've listed the fact that it's good, that it's done in Vojvodina, but it's all a state program. It's not a program of local self-government, nor is it a program of something that was determined by the citizens of Vojvodina. It was decreed by the government that this should be done in Vojvodina without asking the duchy administration about what he thought or didn't ask her. I don't think she asked, so all you counted is a state matter. That's what you foreign ministries and governments determine, i.e. which you have determined. So that would be my question for those original assets. Does Belgrade alone have the original funds or does the Vojvodina have them? What have you given as a state program around borders, border crossings, ports, water, etc.?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64214	I'd like to thank my colleague, Papuga. The word has a representative of the proposed Finance Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64215	Thank you very much. Just briefly to answer this. So, all of these projects aren't projects that came to someone's mind just like that. These projects are an initiative of the Vojvodina Government and the initiative of local self-government from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It's a good thing we have money, it's a good thing we're going to have ten billion dinars next year, just for projects that are your initiative, that is, the initiative of local self-government and the duchy government. This shows how serious we are about this northern part of our country progressing. As for the original incomes and your comments, all local self-governments, if I'm not mistaken, I have 45 or 46 on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, have their original incomes, as well as the city of Belgrade. By law, absolutely local self-government is the same. In the way they earn, and then every local self-government looks at how they're going to pick as much as possible. So I don't see the difference between local self-government on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and on the territory of another part of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64216	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Papuga colleagues, you want a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64217	Just for a little while. I'd like to ask the minister why no law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is passed. Then you would know the needs of the Vojvodina, how much is spent in Vojvodina, how much the Vojvodina needs, and I think that's the main problem. I ask you, when will the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina finally be passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64218	Thank you, colleagues. The word has a representative of the proposed Finance Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64219	Thank you very much. With all due respect to you, it's not exactly a question for me. If I could make that decision as an individual, I'd be, now I'd better not express myself. Generally it is a very important question, but also a question that requires a broader consensus and a longer discussion and analysis, so unfortunately at this point I cannot answer that question. What I can do, I did in the 2020 draft budget, which is to provide 10 billion dinars more money than in 2019 for the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64220	I thank the ministers. The mail on the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for word. Before concluding a principled single search, I would like to ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64221	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the 2019 budget was planned in line with the economic situation in the country and the needs of society. The good side of what's really planned and what's not planned is the big deficit. As a PUPS representative, I will give more attention to the programming principles and activities through which all the structures of the population are looked at, above all, our oldest citizens. Serbia is a signator of the Madrid Document titled "Madrid International Action on Aging", which was adopted in 2002, and in line with this document, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has since 2005 adopted a National Ageing Strategy aimed at creating an integrated and co-ordinated policy that society will, above all, be healthy in the Republic of Serbia's economy. Social protection, the labour market, education and culture and sport are brought into line with demographic change, in order to create a society for all lifetimes, which in particular strives to meet the needs and release the untapped potentials of old people. Older people have great knowledge accumulated by long-term work, great experience, but also wisdom, which is a characteristic of old people, which is why it is necessary for them to be involved in all segments of social life, because they can still and want to help the social community. The Madrid paper, as well as the ageing strategy, insists that the government and the ministry be the bearers of activities in co-operation with NGOs, humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens. Serbia's pensioners' union, as a representative representative of Serbia's pensioners with about 700,000 members, as well as the Third Age Movement of Serbia, which is also a representative representative of all third-century people, are NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens, and as such bearers are all the activities of older people in the Republic of Serbia in the work of social, health needs, cultural and entertainment, sports-recreative, educational and other active. Therefore, the government, state authorities and all structures of government at all levels should see the Alliance of Retired Serbia and the Third Age Movement of Serbia as partners in the realisation of all programme activities with the oldest population. I'd like to look back on the financial plan of the Republic PIO Fund. The Management Board of this Fund shall prescribe a regulation on the social standard of pension users. The funds allocated to this Regulation amount to 0.00% of the contribution to PIO and at an annual level of only 465 million, which does not meet the minimum need to improve the social standard of pension users. For years, the Union of Pensioners of Serbia and the Third Age Movement of Serbia has insisted on increasing the percentage for these needs to at least 0.20%, making the social standard of the pensionee somewhat better. The next topic he would talk about, which is, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, which the government adopted and delivered to the Assembly. It is a document that addresses the issue of 1,700,000 current pensioners, as well as all future pensioners. The position of the PUPS is that pension is an economic category and it must be paid regularly and that the state will be guaranteed payment. On the other hand, new ways must be found to help pensioners with low pensions as a form of social contributions, as was the case in 2012 to 2014, when four times a year for all pensioners with pensions below 15,000, four times a year for 4,000 dinars. Also, we believe that the proposed Swiss model of pension harmonisation is good as a transitional solution, but it is by far the most just and fair model of pension coordination, the PUPS 3P proposal, i.e. pensions follow wages. When we talk about this 3P model, it means that how many percent of the professor, the doctor, the officer, the civil servant in the employment relationship, so much for that pensioner structure. If we had a case in 2014, when he threatened to go bankrupt, the government decided to cut salaries and pensions and then pensions were reduced to the same percentage as salaries. Then it is just and just that the same model is applied to the increase in wages and pensions. I would like to talk about balanced regional development, as an important element of Serbia's development. The decision by the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, to hold a cabinet session in Nis in 2016 and to give some kind of priority to the southeastern part of Serbia as an undeveloped part of Serbia, was the right decision. The confidence of these jobs gave Minister Krkobic very good results. After a successful action, "500 cooperatives in 500 villages", which was realised in two and a half years, Minister Krkobic announced a new action to rebirth 100 Serbian villages in five southern administrative districts. Over a period of three years, 100 villages can count on new infrastructure projects, new cooperatives and multi-functional facilities, so that each village has health, education, cultural facilities, which young people would define to stay and live in the country. The project requires much more investment than was planned for Minister Krkobibic's cabinet. To the PUPS intervention, the government has increased these funds by 50% with its amendment, which has somewhat improved the position, but not enough for fundamentally balanced regional development. I would like to mention a few important data, which is that from 4,709 villages in Serbia disappear every fourth. In 1,034 villages there are less than 100 inhabitants. If the current process continues, in a few decades in a quarter of the village, only monuments will remain as proof of life until now. When Minister Krkobic speaks of the village, he rightly points out that the village is a necessary school, infirmary, post office, home of culture, cooperatives, church, but also all infrastructures that involve a decent life, which are roads, waterways, sewerage, ataric roads, access to the Internet and all that would keep young people in the country. It is therefore the obligation of all ministers and ministries to plan funds for these purposes in part of their responsibilities. Recently, a national team for the rebirth of Serbia was formed on the proposal by Minister Krkobic, in response to the further collapse of the village. This team brings together numerous experts and authorities from agriculture, infrastructure, health care, education, culture, sports and other social areas of life, as well as representatives designated by the academic board for the village of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He particularly looks forward to the full support of the country's most important authorities, headed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the head of all religious communities, as well as all other entities in Serbia. The strategic goal of forming the National Team is to reduce regional imbalances, create systemic preconditions for the economic sustainability of family holdings, create a health market environment, improve, modernise infrastructure and create all socio-cultural and other preconditions for the demographic recovery of the village in Serbia. The general conclusion is that there is no position and opposition in this section. We are all convinced that this is one of the best ways of working for the village to help and survive. In voting day, the PUPS will support the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget and will vote in favour. My request to all ministries and ministers is for this state project to be supported and saved by the Serb village. I believe that we will endure this and that in the next period we will do everything possible for the village to get the status it deserves. Health care as a segment that concerns a large part of the oldest population -- I don't think there's enough attention to that structure, and I'd like to present that with one example of the city of Nis. On the basis of Articles 46 and 48. The Health Protection Act, the City Council of Nisa, launched an initiative to form a Gerontological Care Institute. The Niš City Assembly adopted the request and made a proposal for the establishment of the office. On the basis of the Regulation on the plan of networks of health institutions in Nis, the Institute for Health Protection of Students, the Institute for Health Care of Workers, the Institute for Emergency Medical Assistance, the Institute for Dentalology, the Institute for Pulmonary Diseases, tuberculosis, the Institute for Skin and Veneral Diseases were established. The only thing that has not been established is the Gerontology and Paliatical Care Institute, which concerns about about 65,000 pensioners living in Nis and about 80,000 old people. So I would also take advantage of the opportunity to the Ministry of Health and to the Ministry of Finance and the State in general, to form a health care office for the elderly in Nis during a future short period. If there's a chance, if I could take the opportunity to speak for a neutral time of the parliamentary group, I'd have a lot more to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64222	You have no option, colleague Stosic, unfortunately. You could have done so during the debate in principle, that is, according to the order of the Members of the People's People's Parliaments reported. Now, in the end, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64223	I thank you again and thank you for that explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64224	The word is from the chairman of the Socialist Movement parliamentary group, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasant Party, MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64225	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that it is quite easy to discuss in the principle debate on the budget, i.e. the draft budget for 2020. Every question, the finding, the proposal, we've got a completely adequate and clear answer. I even think some of the suggestions will be appreciated, but, on that path, in principle debate. It is now a matter of personal affinities, personal thinking or an estimate of which there is just enough time until Monday, to debate in particular, to make an appropriate assessment, when we can also correct some things when it comes to the 2020 budget. We all really realized that this was a development budget, but what I have to say is that at this point, unlike the atmosphere in this home, when we talk about the development budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, there is a fierce battle in the city of Sapco to prevent the adoption of an election, fictional, and essentially of the Thief budget, which has offered the council members of the town of Sapca the ruling click in the town of Sapcu. On the issues of our Socialist Committeeman Branko Tomic and all SNS committees and all those who are in opposition in the town of Sapac, where the money received from the Republic of Serbia's budget is worth five million to build a garage on the market, where the money previously withdrawn from the EU for the garage, and only the concrete plateau, Zelenovic, and the click have no answer. They have no answer as to why the citizens of Prnjavor of 600 million, as foreseen in the budget, and the project documentation for receiving healthy drinking water, have not been obtained and why these clicks are being clicked on by the holy local community of Majur, probably because it is one of the largest local communities in which the people proposed by the SNS and the Socialist Movement and led by the local community. I think that you, dear ministers, will have to send budgetary control to the city of Sabac, because I think this budget will be voted upon, with all the efforts that our committees make to prevent and prevent this budget from being developed in Shappac, not thiefic. There is probably work for a state auditor, as well as in many other places, but attention must be paid to such matters during a future period. I am not an expert on this area and what I must express as my hope, although nominal figures do not say, is that in this budget, the budget is planned for the next year to allow or leave a reserve to be paid by the judge for violations to be brought to the necessary level, or to comply with the salaries of the judges of the other courts. In that sense, as we lawyers say, we have put forward caution for the sake of making an amendment that could indeed be verified in a simple way. The answer would mean a lot to both us and the judges for violations, if right now you could tell us what this budget really predicts about all this? What I think, Minister, is that the Republic of Serbia has stood on its feet enough and economically and militaryly as a regulated rule of law and that it should finally now consider some more sources of tax revenue, which is that, at last, with the help of economic forensics, or budgetary inspections, tax police, financial police, let us clarify whether there is a tax evasion achieved by the illegal work of cross-border television. What we MPs have been counting roughly, we think that over 700m euros are coming out of Serbia annually, through this laundry plant, and I will just remind here that the Republic of Serbia has not taken the obligation to allow any programme to be broadcast, but to re-emission in accordance with European conventions. The difference is drastic. Just because some people try to convince us that re-emitting is just a technical term, it's just not true. To convince us that "N1" television and other cross-border televisions work in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, we expect the most capable, the most qualified people from the Ministry of Finance, or those who work in the tax administration and the tax police to do their part of the job and tell us, simply, whether we are right or not. And if we weren't convinced that we were right, we wouldn't have kept imposing this as an appropriate topic. One more thing, Mr. Minister, since we are awaiting one set of funding-related legislative projects, I think that the Ministry of Finance with us MPs should do one more thing together, which is to prepare for an urgent procedure, when I say "emergency" not to be formally urgent, but to one accelerated procedure, a legal text that will be banned and sanctioned by any payment of commercial advertising to media not registered in the Republic of Serbia and which the Republic of Serbia does not pay taxes. This must be strictly sanctioned, whether it is a matter of budget funds or any means. I will remind you, this has also been discussed in the negotiations, this is the initiative of the Socialist Movement, and we will insist on it, because we simply cannot allow the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be spent on advertising in media where the Republic of Serbia allegedly has no right to exercise control. We believe that there are, through REM and through the future assembly board, but we just have to clarify this situation until the end – whether they are really cross-border television or what we think they are just fictitiously cross-border television, which a small non-coordination in the work of the ministries has been using for too long. So, there's nothing here that's limiting anyone in his rights, this is exactly the desire that all the funds that need to be blended into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. When we channel this properly, the 700m euros, 800m euros, we can certainly give citizens of the Republic of Serbia a lot of quality things or reduce some of the obligations that citizens have, which are now established and which will exist when it comes to any kind of tax in order to consider the budget of the Republic of Serbia to be developmental, stable and function immaculate. In any case, in the voting day, we will support this budget, as this reflects an absolute stability of the Republic of Serbia and impeccable calm for 2020 and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-22-0.u64226	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Dear Ministers, the honourable representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude a principled single search of the bill. We continue our work on Monday, November 25th with a start at 10.00 p.m., a discussion in particular. Thank you.
