ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61780	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have a quorum and the possibility of continuing our work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Stefana Miladanovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. We are moving to search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Marijan Rističević, Aleksandra Belaci, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has not carried out a principled search pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Antiću, the SRS has held its position in the rebalancing of this budget during the principle debate. We believe that it was necessary and there was an opportunity to already show up surplus funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that social component is different in order, and not only because of this surplus, but because of our observation when this draft budget was adopted, and these are items concerning various NGOs, agencies established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are now over 130, and all of this money should be the basis for improving the social situation of the most vulnerable population, new subsidies for agriculture and greater donations for our oldest citizens, and these are pensioners. We believe that this government policy, which has been designed to increase pensions and salaries and minimum labour prices to 30,000 and several dinars, is something that will not fully meet the minimum needs of the most vulnerable residents and those with the lowest incomes. Namely, Mr. Antiću, and it is energy that affects the most when it comes to the global stock market, and it is also projected in Serbia to increase all costs, above all in production, and hence to increase what is needed for every resident to survive. So these 30,000 dinars are not enough, but are missing at least 7,000 dinars, as the average consumer basket in Serbia is currently 37,000 dinars. Then a question arises for you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the one who will work for the minimum person, the one who receives an even smaller pension, will find the rest up to 37,000 dinars, with this being different from the city to the city, so you have cities in Serbia, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad and others, where the nominal amount and average earnings are higher, but there is the same situation for those most threatened, because there is a higher price for the consumer basket.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61782	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to refer to the Minister of Finance's answer, to my question on the first day, he is unfortunately not present today, but here you can all make sure that in Article 1 the second position is – after the total revenue and receipt of the budget surplus, i.e. the deficit. Here is a budget deficit which is 90.4% higher than originally planned for the 2019 budget. So I can't figure out how the finance minister doesn't know we have a budget deficit. Secondly, given that 5% of the incentives in tax-based agriculture are increased to a thousand 92 billion and 800 million, 54 billion and 640 million, and that the Rebalancing Law provides for a sum of only 54 billion 614 million 663 thousand dinars, this results in no such incentive law that has been amended to the detriment of farmers to 25 million 337 thousand. That's why I suggested that this position increase by something like five billion. Given that in addition to these 25 million, 11 billion is a reduction and because we are the only country in the world that basically treats the entire budget of division 24 as an incentive for agriculture. One of the reasons why I will not vote for the Rebalancing Act is these positions relating to social protection, combat and disability protection, which has been reduced by 50 million, social protection by 435 million 194 thousand, student standard for 18 million and 600,000, November standard for 57 million and 400,000 dinars, etc. If we have to save on those categories despite the fact that we're planning an increase in total income and allocations for social contributions, then I really don't know who we're supposed to be saving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61784	You have time, you can continue if you want. Up to seven minutes, so how do you want to use it?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61785	- Up to seven minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61786	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61787	Thanks, I didn't know, I thought it was only three minutes, that's why. Thank you. Also, there should be some more questions to be asked. Let's say, why can't we get a survey committee report on the spending of funds on KIM during the former regime, from 2002 to 2012? Don't say we're just talking about the current regime, and we're not talking about the former regime. According to information available to the public, it is an illegally spent, billion euros. It is interesting that, right after that, there was a reduction in pensions, about a little less than that amount. Does this mean that this regime has practically covered up the situation that funds are spent on KIM, and on the burden of detachment, i.e. the withdrawal of pensioners above 20%, over 25 000, or 25% of pensions above 45 000, and the withdrawal of farmers moving between 10 and more billion a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61788	Thank you, Professor. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61789	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk about the amendments. On behalf of the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party and many other colleagues, I congratulate the Serbian List on its glorious victory, winning all ten seats, in the elections in our southern province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61790	I'm joining the cards. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61791	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, absolutely respecting the amendments to the MPs, I would not like to say, I am taking too much space in this discussion, but only to comment on some things that I really consider to be extremely important. First of all, the MP, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, brought out on the one hand, I believe that I understand well, support for the efforts of the Government of Serbia to, above all, improve the quality of life for all those who need support to increase and make minimum profits and profits in the public sector, with the emphasis that this should be done and that success will be appreciated, first of all, on how quickly we change the quality of life in Serbia, and I absolutely agree with that. So, this government, right in its first priority, has a change of Serbia, through one economically strong Serbia that can make life in Serbia better and that, above all, through support for all those social categories, but also through support in the public sector and support through minimum labour prices, let us take that step and that the quality of life in Serbia, of course, is growing. You said the cost of energy. Once again, one of the figures behind which we are absolutely standing, Serbia in the region has a convincingly low electricity price. It is lower than all EU countries, and Serbia is indeed taking care of the socio-economic component on this issue. The difference in Serbia has not changed the price of electricity for many years. On the other hand, the minimum cost of working in Serbia is increasing year by year. I have data since 2008, when it was 12,931 dinars, for example, in 2012, when it was 19,447 dinars, in order to make it to 30,022 dinars in 2020. People, from 2012 to 2020, 54.37% increase in the minimum labour price. I think it's a great success for both these governments and societies in general, and I think we'll continue with such strong measures in the years ahead. They are the best picture of a single overall economic recovery in Serbia and an indication that Serbia is moving to one of strengthening the quality of life in Serbia, and I think we should all be proud of it together, from the president, through the government, through this parliament, which gives a strong contribution to achieving just this great results. The great victory of all of us is 30.022 dinars, if we look at it compared to the 2012 reference and 54.37% increase in the minimum labour price is something that we all should be proud of together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61792	Thank you, Minister Antic. The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61793	Mr. Antiću, you came here today as Minister of Government, engaged in an argument according to the amendments, so you didn't hear all of our arguments. I just brought up a part of what we're making a comment on, and now that you've started the story of rising energy and electricity prices, then I have to remind you that unlike electricity, the price of gas at pumps in Serbia has grown at a rate that cannot monitor the domestic economy sector, that is, the fact that the very businessmen, unlike those of you from abroad, and give them huge subsidies can't out of their capital to accumulate so much, to invest in new technologies and in new production because they don't have from where, and they're afraid to be in debt to credit banks. Now that you're saying that we've come to this growth and so... Then why didn't you increase the toll price by 12%, increase both wages and pensions? Take that analogy. Why didn't you raise wages and pension prices in line with the increase, exactly what I was talking about, which is that the state has much more than in individual EU countries based on the application of each litre of fuel? With our salaries and pensions, the state collects revenue on a liter of diesel fuel, as much as it is, in Australia or, say, Switzerland where there are incomparably higher wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61794	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61795	First of all, when we look at the price of fuel for the economy, it is, for our economy, identical to the fuel prices for the economic and economic reference that they compete with on the market. Simply, the price of fuel is something defined by stock prices, the state of the price of crude oil that applies to Serbia as well as to Hungary, as well as to all countries in the region. It's just that when it comes to industry, it's completely identical to all the participants in that business competition. When we talk about incentives, yes, of course, Serbia has made a major step in attracting foreign investment in recent years. We have strong investment support and that is what has had a capital impact on reducing and unemployment in Serbia, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to create all economic parameters for us today to increase both wages and pensions and all those payments that the state is referring primarily to improving the quality of life. These subsidies are not necessarily directed towards foreign companies. So anyone who meets the requirements and invests has the right to these subsidies. Finally, I must say that, first of all, the excise policy relating to oil derivatives in Serbia is defined by the law adopted in this Assembly, the Budget Law, which is adopted in this Assembly, where we jointly define the priorities in which these funds will be used. We are using these excise funds to strengthen the capacity of the state administration, etc., we are already using these budgets, first and foremost, for this investment cycle, but also for increasing profits in the public sector and for strengthening the social component of the state that I think is our common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61796	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61797	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I also said that the price of derivatives depends on the global stock market, but what the state can do is cut taxes and excises when it sees that it's in proportion to what's on the world stock market. Look at the countries in our environment and their fuel prices. This year, we already had the entry into force of the Excise Act in January, following the adoption of the budget of this, whose rebalancing is now on the agenda and where we have also criticised it. You now say as these foreign investors are concerned, so they are encouraged by such subsidies and, secondly, that production is a short production cycle, requires a simple working force, except for one exception where this IT sector is concerned and, on the other hand, they are not directed at domestic suppliers at all, so there is no larger related production cycle to raise our domestic production, and in order for us to say this to Minister Sinishi Mali, much faster GDP, the share of domestic production must be much higher. It is now poor 8%, and in order for that GDP to grow by some progression that would satisfy both higher production and ultimately better living standards, it must be at least, as economists say, 18% to 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61798	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61799	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also opened up a number of issues concerning the so-called budget rebalancing, and we have pointed to problems about the financing of the budget itself, but also how and how its effective control can be done. Since the budget is in the surplus, that there is extra funds in the budget, you have made a plan to spend that surplus, so you have foreseen an increase in salary, then a one-time aid to pensioners, to help those citizens who have loans in Swiss francs and so on. All this sounds nice, all these increases and help, but unfortunately, since the spring is expected to be an election, it can be concluded that all of this is done exclusively for pre-election purposes, so we can freely say that this is also the pre-election budget. Pensioners in Serbia are scheduled to receive one-off aid of 5,000 dinars, and that assistance will, of course, be granted to all those with the lowest and highest pensions. However, you have reduced pensions to pensioners as part of the reforms, and those who bear the greatest burden of these reforms and now, when a surplus appears, you are giving one-off aid, and what we Serbian radicals have been constantly pointing to since the minimum wage is 30,000 and some dinar, is that the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars and that it is necessary that both minimum salaries and minimum pensions be at the level of the consumer basket, which is 37,000 dinars. So it's necessary to increase exactly the lowest pensions, not to insult pensioners by now giving them one-time aid of 5,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61800	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we have on the agenda amendments and additions to the most important law in Serbia. The budget law applies to all citizens of Serbia, both those dealing with agriculture and those whose basic activity is science, scientific research, treatment and the like. Mr. Minister, as a correct man, I would have completely excluded you if you hadn't said that the big win was an increase in minimum earnings from some amount to 30,022 dinars. If this data is seen for itself and 54% of its growth, that could be said, but we have to link this to an increasing number of labour drains from Serbia. If they were so satisfied not only with the minimum labour price, but with the cost of working in Serbia at all, they would not be leaving. We have a situation that entire families are leaving, that Serbia's youth is leaving, that those who have been educated for some very rare occupations, as well as those who are almost without interest. That should be taken care of. You've caught yourself, I think, that this government is running a populist policy, although it wouldn't have to do that at all. We Serbian radicals can understand that this is done at the beginning of a government, but, behold, you have been at the head of the Serbian state for seven years and over seven years and do not deal with this population. We are very recognizable here that you are going with this budget rebalancing because 2020 is an election year. If it wasn't, this would probably be different. Secondly, you make some decisions aproximately. You're welcome to bring them. My colleagues have already spoken on the basis of which you suggest an increase in profits for certain occupations. That's exactly what we think, that what you're saying is that you need to increase the profits, but based on what? Why isn't everyone the same? Why weren't you collecting tolls? It's something we all remember that was almost there. Thank you. Three days. If it wasn't, this would probably be different. Secondly, you make some decisions aproximately. You're welcome to bring them. My colleagues have already spoken on the basis of which you suggest an increase in profits for certain occupations. That's exactly what we think, that what you're saying is that you need to increase the profits, but based on what? Why isn't everyone the same? Why weren't you collecting tolls? It's something we all remember that was almost there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61802	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The People's MP Alexander Seselj has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61803	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the state of business in Serbia, according to statements, information and performances of Serbian ministers, we can draw some conclusions that are not quite accurate. First of all, when, for example, a minister in the government says that Serbia's economy is growing faster and more economically successful than Germany in 2018 and 2019, because nominally our growth is greater than in Germany, we cannot say that we are more successful because, for example, if Serbia's economy is growing by 3% or 4%, if the German cash register decreases, however, their growth, given their size, is ten times larger than Serbia's. I think it can be interpreted in a completely different way in public, and Mr. Mali spoke in the principle debate about how we are the most successful in foreign investment. So, in the past few years, Serbia has been the champion of foreign investment. I find it completely fascinating, given that there is a great degree of discrimination when it comes to ours. Domestic businessmen and foreign businessmen, first of all, on subsidies, so foreigners can get the land for free, allow everything in accelerated procedures and free and sometimes more than 10,000 euros per job, for all of these things for which the Serbian businessman has no rights. That's the first thing. And the other thing, which no one sees in the long run is a very big danger for Serbia, which is too much dependence on foreign investment can lead to the great blackmailing potential of all foreign investors in Serbia, who can then, under the threat of leaving our country, above all, foreign policy and other decisions in Serbia. We had an example that “Smederevo Iron ” had to be bought back for one dollar. So, that stranger when he came here, when he used it all, when the extra profit came out of Jusedstil, and then this factory of yours served me with a dollar. With that in mind, we need to pay much more attention and much more thought about potential dangers to approach and talk about investments, not take it for granted, that everything that comes from abroad is excellent.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61804	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, when we listen to our ministers, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, back and forth for 18 years, because the characters have changed, but politics and vocabulary have not. It reminds us of that old statistic of our dick, that you want that painting. We remember after "Buldozer Revolution" on October 5th, the principle that you are today implementing in practice, which has been spoken to us -- entering the EU is only as soon as, foreign investment is never better, unlike the '90s regime, which was bad, we open factories, never a better minimumer, foreign companies enter. Of course, and in the middle of all that in 18 years, all domestic companies, all domestic factories, have been destroyed. The entire economy of the Republic of Serbia has been destroyed, but it is amazing that every year every year when budget rebalance comes, when the budget comes, we hear that this is the budget, the proposal for a budget that is best on the historical level. Only there's one small problem, the citizens won't see anything of it except that when they listen to television with national frequency and information program and our ministers, they live briefly in error until they go to the first store. Now, let me remind you, Mr. Minister, you have spoken here and my colleagues have been overjoyed, I suppose every citizen of Serbia should be overjoyed when a minimumer jumps. Let's see two employees who work more than minimum wagers. Here, let's make them 35,000 dinars. That's 70,000. They only have two children, not three, how many minimums should it take to speed up the growth of our citizens and natural growth and to prevent at least a brief white plague. If we take that they live at an average of 50 square meters, no more, let's figure out what the price of the info, the water and the sewers is, the heating. We'll rule out that they have a car, that they're using fuel, that they don't need, that's a surplus. Let's get the kindergarten. Here, for example, to take the kindergarten, six thousand dinars times two is twelve, a thousand and a half dinars English, that's three thousand, that's a total of 15, per sport a thousand and a half, that's a total of 18 thousand dinars. We'll shut down SBB, Telekom, MTS, we don't need cable, we don't need a fixed phone. We'll get a cell phone. Eighteen thousand dinars is just kindergarten. If we take another 25 grand, which is a minimum price if a machine is included at 12 p.m. when it's cheaper, assuming you're not reported by a neighbor to the communal police, you get a fine, under that assumption, that's 33,000 dinars. Cell phone should be a thousand dinars, so 34. So we don't have a car, we don't have tires, we don't have a registration, we don't have a cable operator. We've got a couple of TV channels. There are 30,000 dinars left for life. For life, shoes, clothes, food. How can you not be ashamed? You can say – All right, here's this draft budget we managed to increase, not good, it's bad, it's catastrophic, but don't say that citizens will live better. From what? By not having to, what, eat the earth, so they can buy some salami? It's easy, for example, for Mr. Orlic. He teaches there next to this parliamentary salary, teaches at some college there, who knows what other boards and boards he's in. He beats 200-300-500 thousand dinars and his colleagues and then gets up and talks about a 30,000-dollar minimal. It's at least hypocritical and cynical of you. I am pleased to see the smiles on this left hand side of the MPs laughing at me, SNS, because it is proof of how much they respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's the point. The other thing is very important. When you spoke about the proposal these days and you say – one-time help to the pensioners. So you said you'd never touch the pensioners, that it was the last thing you'd do and you'd cut their pensions? Now what, before the elections, are you paying them back, for 5,000 dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61806	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. The word has a minister, Alexander Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61807	First of all, I think the government ministers are trying and believing to be able to communicate with parliament and citizens to have a completely realistic story and picture of what life is like in Serbia. For this very reason, we do not say that we are satisfied with all segments, but we have the right to be satisfied with the progress made in Serbia in several key areas that have a high quality impact on life in Serbia. We can now demean statistics here or have some political mathematics that some are, and we know ourselves long, very prone and some who speak and some who sit by and prepare to speak, but the result when the price of working with 19,447 dinars, the minimum price, goes to 30.022, means 54.37% of any demagogy can't be questioned. 54.37% of growth is evident and this cannot be challenged. We can now maliciously add up a lot of different costs and bring them all into line with one or two minimum labour prices, but we cannot forget, honourable MPs, that the average profit in Serbia is almost 500 euros already. With the increase coming from budget rebalances, it will go to 500 euros. Which then you do not make mathematics that is more realistic where we look at all costs compared to two average earnings and then we will come up with a whole series of measures, which, of course, started from the difficult measures in 2014, have come to the point that the quality of life in Serbia today is even better for a shade than it was a few years ago, and worse than it will be the next year when all these measures and all of these effects that we plan on with budget rebalance, we realize and realize. I must say that we will not look at life in Serbia through pink glasses, but we will always fight through it and look through the darkest black glasses that are not real. When we say that Serbia in many segments is currently achieving good performance, measured in European frameworks, and here we are very clear and very real. We're not saying that Serbia grew more than Germany. Well, of course that's hard to say when we look at all the performances, at a relative percentage, or at a percentage, it can work one way or the other. But the fact is that Serbia was declared by reference institutions as the country most attractive to foreign investments relatively viewed in terms of size of territory, population, etc., etc. So these are all indicators that are very clear, which are very precise. My colleague Sinisha Mali, and I have followed closely, absolutely precisely this Parliament and the general public have reported these results in an absolutely correct manner, which is based on a whole series, above all, economic assumptions and indicators.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61808	Thank you, Minister Antic. The right to replica has Miljan Damjanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the first Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, Mr. Antic is a classic example of how quickly a man forgets what it's like to be an opposition and what it looks like to be a proud representative of the regime. You, Mr. Antic, have been a city councilman for a long time, perhaps you haven't... (President: Which member, colleague Sarovic? Article 107. I'm talking about the dignity of the National Assembly. And you, Mr. Marinkovic, obviously failed to hear that the minister had spoken to the MPs and said they were deliberately adding up some kind of cost of life. So, a malicious MP can never be, can be a minister, can be boastful, can be hypocritical, can be maliced, can be a lot of things, but must not be rude and must never address MPs in such a way. If you claim, Mr Antic, that any of the costs stated by Mr Damjanovic is not correct, if you claim that the kindergarten does not cost as much as he said it would cost, if you claim that any of the other costs is not right, please state the exact details. So that's what the point is. The second member you have violated, Mr Marinkovic, is a member of Article 158(7) who clearly speaks about how much the government's representative, in this case the minister, can talk about any amendment, which is two minutes. So, as much as he is, you, when two minutes are up, have to warn him, eventually let him finish the sentence and then turn off his microphone. This is what is the essence of parliamentaryism and if you have already adopted a Rules of Procedure under which representatives of the executive government in the National Assembly have the opportunity to dominate the length of speech, but of course it is quite the opposite when it comes to arguments, then you are obliged, at least by amendments, to respect the Rules of Procedure and to limit them, as well as MPs, to two minutes per amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61810	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Can you answer me? You're not answering. So, no. All right. The word is made by MP Miljan Damjanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61811	Mr. Minister, it was very nice to listen to your answer for almost five minutes, and in those five minutes, we could only hear one piece of information, which is that with 19 thousand, the minimumer jumped to 30,000 dinars and all the honor. But there is one small problem, a very small problem, which is that you are in this coalition, you are in power, thank God, since 1945, but in this moment, you have been with these coalition partners since 2012, seven years old. It should remind citizens of Serbia how much it cost the average life seven years ago, completely, all the other costs, how much fuel it cost, how much it cost, what it cost to pay for a loaf of bread. It used to be the socialists' favorites, to bring out loafs of bread, if it's 500 grams, if it's a kilo, if it's three dinars, if it's six dinars, but it's all irrelevant now. I'm talking about the data that citizens of Serbia feel every day in practice. Here, for the citizens of Belgrade, I didn't give any more information. We need to smuggle into the GSP so we can have kids buy some candy, because if they buy two parents even a buspool, then put it on the figure how much it costs, so we don't talk about other expenses. Why? You now have a situation to keep info, for example, forget to pay one month, wrongly deposit to another account, no more sending you a warning, send it to your perpetrators immediately, and then, and then, there's the extra yelling of the people. That's true. When you talk about the average salary of 500 euros, I understand that you have a need and you have to repeat what the Prime Minister, the president of the state repeats every day, let's see if we're going to talk about the average salary, how do you get to that 500 euros? How? By the fact that the directors of 330 government agencies and employees have an average in agencies of over 80,000 and the directors of 200,000, and 100,000 old people do not receive pensions in Serbia. How do we get to that average? You can calculate that for us, so tell us, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61812	Thank you. The word has a minister. Nemanja Sarovic: How, on what basis? On what grounds is he right? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61813	I've been used to talking for years, and Mr. Sarovic has his own tirad in the background, so I don't mind that color of voice in that sense and I don't get distracted. At a time when I was president of the City Assembly, he was a little bit, let me say, more under control, since I kept him very tight in those frames. I was not as permissive to him as Mr Marinkovic, and he was used to discipline and only discipline respects. I just wanted to say the next thing. I am certainly not known for insulting anyone, let alone the Messengers of the people. So, I didn't absolutely insult any of the MPs, and I didn't say that the MP was malicious, but I said that it was malicious to compare all costs to two minimum labour costs. I said it would be far better if we compared some average household costs to two average earnings. And I absolutely think I'm logical and in any other way absolutely right about that. In the end, I only skipped, I apologize, now I've seen Professor Chevarlich. Regarding agriculture and about your remark that 5% of the budget is not allocated to incentives in agriculture and to support the whole of agriculture, so the budget is 54,614.663,000. That would be 4.99 and you would be right if there were no positions with the minister without portfolios in charge of the even development of Mr. Krkobibic and another 600 million dinars that were planned to support the village, agriculture, cooperative and thus definitely go to over 5%. Here, let me say, we are formally fulfilling the obligation, but we are essentially fulfilling it, to say, with strong support measures and agriculture and the processing industry, in all other segments, so it is without dilemma one of our first priorities. Serbia is a country strongly relying on agriculture and we recognize and respect and strongly support this potential.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61814	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word now has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61815	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to congratulate Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin on his 67th birthday. I think it deserves a round of applause, given the support the Russian Federation and it personally gives the Republic of Serbia to preserve territorial integrity and respect for Resolution 1244. Secondly, when it comes to the replica of Mr. Minister, that is to say, the answer to the question. Mr. Minister, the portfolio-free ministry is a second position and does not belong to the agriculture ministry's division. That you allowed your coalition partner to stand out and form a special position in the budget is the same as for Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, etc. So it should also be brought together by the Ministry of Labour, Social and Combat Affairs. We can discuss this, but de facto, when you look at the letter of the law, there are 25 million missing under the amended provisions of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm asking you to do it. Secondly, it is not exactly your information, Mr. Minister, with all due respect and with all respect to the trend of the increase in incentives in agriculture, that it is not cut off by farmers. I'm asking you how much has been cut off by farmers during your term of office, and it's been cut off in the previous regime. So it won't be slow. So over 11 billion of these were cut off just because nowhere in any country the total budget in the distribution of the Ministry of Agriculture represents incentives for peasants. There is no such thing in any country in the world. It has only existed in Serbia since 2016 to reduce its commitments to agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61816	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. We're moving on with our work. On Article 7th of the amendment, the National MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted. Do you want the word Professor Chesave? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61817	Yeah. Thank you very much. With this amendment, I asked you to respect at least what you misquoted in the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. You've prescribed a minimum of 5% of the total tax revenue. The total tax revenues are 20, i.e. when multiplied by 5%, the total part to belong to the Ministry of Agriculture, divided by 24, is 25 million less under the Budget Rebalancing Bill, as popularly said, and I see no reason why at least you don't respect that minimum figure, but that's how you damage farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61818	Thank you. On article 7, the 54th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61819	Minister Antic, you have made the people very angry in Belgrade. They say people freeze up, say spring you promised to turn on the heating, and some warm rehearsals, that from this fall you would turn on whenever a certain temperature has been set for days. Little children, old, sick, really people complain and say it's high time to turn on the heat that is normally paid all year and in July and August and there's no reason not to be included at a temperature of nine, ten, what is the morning temperature. When it comes to this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, or budget rebalancing, it is more clearly said that this is nothing epochal, you have come out, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with this rebalancing to boast that you have extra money, so now you're deploying that money as you wish, and the problem is a lot. First of all, this is a pre-election budget, a rebalancing budget, and it's obvious that your pre-election will be pre-election. In what way is it pre-election? In the sense that you have still made that decision to ban employment in the public sector. This means that Serbia continues to function for a certain period of time. Half a million people work for a certain time, you will continue to do so, by blackmailing those people who have been blackmailed to vote for the parties in power, to prove, to paint their ballot, to prove who they voted for, and to provide 10 more of those videos along the way. This has already been seen and this law says that you will continue to do so in the next election. Second of all, boast how you skipped some magic number when it comes to minimum profit. Last year, you skipped a $27,000 magic number, so you reached 27,022 dinars. This year again, according to the minister, you skipped that 30,000 magic figure, so now it's a minimum profit of 30,022 dinars, and the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. Minister Sinisha Mali had no answer, maybe you have, how to skip between 30,000 and 37,000, how to skip that magic figure, to have that last week to live? What's the SRS' position, you're talking about raising pensions, first, happened what Serbian radicals predicted. You were here when it was debated, I think the Prime Minister was, too, about the PIO Act and then we said it had to be the law to regulate the way pensions were co-ordinated. You didn't accept it, and it's not the congregation's majority, but you left the government at will. As a result, there was no increase in pensions in 2019. It will be early 2020 because it will also be a pre-election period. To really do something that the people will remember, pension, the lowest pension must be 37,000 dinars, as much as the lowest consumer basket. As long as it is not achieved, you can say whatever you want, the people feel how they live and regardless of your praises, the people in Serbia do not live well. I am convinced that you know that, Minister Anticu, of course, will defend from that position the government's position. It is the minister's job, but the minister's job is to accept at least a few suggestions from the opposition MPs, first of all. Thank you and turn on the heating, Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61820	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61821	Let me start with this last one. Each minister defends the government's position and is part of our teamwork and joint decision-making and joint struggle to improve the quality of life in Serbia. But of course we're not just doing it, as the kids would say, by the difolt, because we believe in it and because there's a whole set of parameters and indicators behind it that show that some progress is seen and that it's evident. I truly understand the best intentions of the MPs who point to a whole series of costs that we are surrounded by, each of us and every man in Serbia, so that profits can be greater and that in all segments of people's income they will be, I say, such that they will enable them more and that is, of course, the wish of each of us regardless of the political party, regardless of political engagement. I guess every one of us as a man wants people in Serbia to live better and better, but what our obligations and ministers are in government, MPs in the National Assembly are above all to make it all real. Simply, Serbia has already experienced several times in its history that because of its various populists, growth in earnings, pensions and other budget categories is subject to political decisions that are not based on economic assumptions and parameters that have led Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy and the possibility that the entire system will pay off primarily pensions, but also all other budget categories will be fully in a state of disintegration. For this reason, 2014 was a strong milestone that said that Serbia can spend as much as it earns in all segments and for this very reason we have been fighting every day for five years, when I say – we, not only think about the government, but also about the whole of Serbia, and this Parliament, which has passed a lot of reform laws and made one huge contribution to everything that has happened in Serbia in the past to change Serbia, so that Serbia can begin to create more, so that Serbia can spend more afterwards. We also work every year, and every year we try to make the real foundations of the success that the state achieves, not me as a minister, not Sinisha Mali as a minister or anyone, everyone participated in that success, to share it with the citizens afterwards, and that is precisely this rebalancing. This rebalancing is due to Serbia's success, which then shares those successes with citizens. How much? As successful as we were. Maybe next year we'll be even more successful, and next year we'll sit down and say, this year we'll share with the citizens more of what we've all created together. I really understand the opposition's view of it all. Dear colleagues, I have not forgotten that in the good part of my political career I was an opposition boardman. From 1992 to 2008, I was an opposition councilman and I know what it's like. I'm just asking that look to be real. We can't criticize what success is. We can ask for that success to be greater, and we will always agree on that. When it comes to heating, there are too many major political aces here experienced to suggest once the minister lets the heat go, and we all know it's a communal activity that local self-government is in charge of, and we all know that the warm season starts on October 15th and lasts until April 15th. We all know that the heating costs are calculated for the period during which the heating season lasts, and for the citizens, the charges are in 12 months. Also, you're right, if the temperatures are lower than the average of 12 degrees from October 1st to 15th, the heat has an obligation to release heat during that period and I want to tell you that Belgrade's heat left this morning precisely because today the average daily temperature is below 12 degrees. Belgrade's heat left heat today. (The Faith of Radeta: When? ) Dear People's MPs, you can't ask the minister for the exact timing of 60 and change heat throughout Serbia that do either hot rehearsals or play heat or do any part of the promotion of their system so that on October 15th, it starts at full capacity. The information I received from Belgrade's heat is that they left today, given that the average temperature will be around 12 degrees, heating. I expect it will be so during tomorrow, as Wednesday's forecasts say the temperatures should be significantly higher in a way that we're going to get a 25-26-degree mini-flight back on the weekend. So in these few days, Belgrade's heat will keep us warm, and from Wednesday, we'll enjoy the sunny days and the last moments of the summer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61822	Thank you, Minister. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61823	It'll be sunny and somewhere around St. Nicholas, so you can turn off the heating. It's really amazing. Mr. Antiću, it is good that you listen to the MPs of the SRS, it is good that you intervened to include the heat because we asked for it, because this morning until nine o'clock in Belgrade there was no heat and thank you for listening to us and for the fact that the people of Belgrade will be warmed up today thanks to our intervention. When it comes to what you tried to say, you said you believed what you said on behalf of the government, do you believe, Mr Antic, that a pensioner can live with 10,000 a month and a pensioner who is not agricultural with 14,000 a month, the lowest pension? Do you believe that's possible? You say next year you'll have even better data. Unfortunately, some of these people will starve to death, so you'll have fewer. These pensioners with the lowest pension in Serbia have the highest, more than 300,000, and they are struggling to survive. You're talking about a profit average, etc. You didn't say - he'll resent you, that maybe in two months it'll be an average of 500 euros. That's what everybody's saying. What's gonna happen in two months, you're a cautious man, you don't want to run. When it comes to the average profit, some of those invisible to an ordinary man's figures, the average earnings are also paid by public contractors who are up to 100,000 euros a month, as if you don't know it, the governor's salary goes to a variety of so-called salaries. independent regulatory bodies, or people who are in charge of these organs, but the solution to that problem is what you've been saying for years, and all you have to do is do, pay classes. Payment classes are a solution to the problem of public sector income. As long as it's not like that, you're not doing a good job. No one's salary in Serbia can be higher than the president's salary. It doesn't make sense. We today have dozens, perhaps hundreds to account for wages greater than the salary of the President of the Republic. I'm not talking about the President-in-Office of the Republic at all. You'll stop paid classes, you know, in your ministry, most of the moneyiers, and they work for a salary that's often below minimum wage, and someone thinks it's a ministry I don't know what pay is. How many assistants do you have that have more pay than you do? You have many, both deputies and secretary of state, etc. These are all illogical things and they're being dealt with by paying classes that we're waiting for from you as a security government.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61824	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61825	I don't want to comment on something after every discussion, but I'd like to say about the heating. I understand, everyone should have a little victory and keep it on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61826	Thank you, Minister Antic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the second item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the budget system laws. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marijan Risticevic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Ružica Nikolic, Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Miljan Damjanović, Filip Stojanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Despotović, Nikola Savic, Petar Jojic and Dubravko Bojic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61827	When we say -- the budget system, they know what the citizens are about. So this is a law that refers to the way and the possibility of spending money on everyone who is financed from the budget, whether it's republican, whether it's local. So these are all ministries, public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia in local self-government, so municipalities, cities and all public enterprises founded by a city. Now the question is, how are we going to control all these public enterprises with such a concise bill on the budget system? Three months ago, we had a report from the DRI and the Fiscal Council, and they, therefore, put the independent authorities, in their reports, the most objections, in the way of spending money from the arrogant directors in public enterprises. Imagine for the period that has been followed, in their reports this was before, 2015-2017, Mr Antić, more than 70% of the funds received from the budget of local self-government or the republican budgets spent by the directors of these public enterprises - on salaries, on back taxes and contributions, on various other things, on the costs of the team, etc. And when will you once report to us, you as a government, about the business of public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia? You've got people out there that you keep in "vd" state in certain companies for years, director for six years, "vd." What does that look like? How do we know? You change the budget and you say -- there's savings. And then where are your reports about how they spend money, who did and how much did he take, what did he spend it for? Serbian citizens must know, you are working under the amended and updated Budgetary System Act, which Bozidar Djelic brought to the National Assembly in 2001. There are very important two positions - services by contract and specialized services. You can do whatever you want, based on those two bills in the budget. And many abuse it and there's the biggest outflow of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61828	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Anticu, when I saw you, I thought maybe you didn't become Minister of Finance overnight? I wouldn't be the first time you've changed the corridors overnight. You seem to be one of those general practice experts, like Rasim Ljajic. But I would ask you one other thing, that I would not report to the Rules of Procedure and that I would not point to a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. When addressing the MPs, keep in mind that these are serious people and that most are involved in politics, not only for more than a few years, but also for longer than 2012. Well, when you talk about those villains who led Serbia before 2012, about these vermin, and those who increased pensions for marketing pre-election reasons, those who led Serbia to the beggar stick, to the brink of bankruptcy, etc., then, Mr. Antić, don't talk about some people there, but say, when we did that, well, here we are now sorry, so we got a second chance. So it's important to see continuity in your politics, or possibly discontinuity. You choose. So you can say -- we're ashamed of that period, you can say -- we're proud of that period, but what you can't say, you can't say that you didn't participate, that you're now some new, some washed, washed, and I don't know what my God, you're surprised at what all these bad guys were doing before you. You have participated in almost every government since 1945, as Mr. Nejo says, until today, even in the transitional government you participated after October 5th, and you didn't hate it either, despite everything they've done against you. You did not participate in the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zivkovic, and after that, from minority support to Kostunica, to open DS support, you participated nicely in everything. So don't think the citizens of Serbia don't remember that. They remember that, and it's especially offensive when you try to convince us in the National Assembly of those things that are absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61830	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61831	Thank you for your compliment, Mr. Sarovic. I appreciate that I look pretty good and fresh for a man who's been in power since '45. I'm holding on well, thank you, I'll give you a prescription for something like that, if you're serious. Since I know you're not, then I have the right to joke, and I don't think any MP forbids me. When MPs are funny, then ministers can respond in a similar way. I really want us to be serious in the first place, and I haven't used these words here that you have imputed to me, nor have I mentioned the criminal governments, nor the enemy governments, against Serbia, and so on. It's your free translation and that's how you work. How do I work? I, neither wash, nor make up in this sense politically, but try to take from the point of view of the function I perform, by observing good and bad experiences, to choose those paths that are good for Serbia. I am absolutely confident that any pension growth, public sector wages, must be based on results. It is entirely irrelevant whether it was at a time when the SPS was in opposition, supporting a minority government, being in government with others or you, whether at that time these unrealistic economic performances were based on political decisions or political commitments, whether they were related to luxury taxes or any other source of income, I observe what is essential, and the essence is to give results. When you have the result, let's share it. Everything that's different is bad, whether it's mine or your party involved in it. I repeat, don't let us keep going back to the past to hit each other under the table, but let's get out of the past that we're only getting bad experiences and not repeating them. I draw bad experiences, I don't politically characterise anyone, I don't judge anyone politically, I just mention that these mistakes wouldn't be done again, and I think we should all have such a policy. If we all have it, then Serbia will be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61832	Thank you, Mr Antic. Yes, right on the line, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61833	Mr. Antic, you wanted this debate, and as you said, that was the answer. So I will never allow you to insult neither the National Assembly nor any other institution, and especially anyone from the SRS parliamentary group. Another thing, if you want to speak the language of the facts, here, I would like, first of all, to give us some official document based on which you spoke and based on which Mr. Sinisha Mali said these wonderful forecasts for Serbia. He said, you said that you followed this whole discussion closely, that there is a huge increase in imports to Serbia and the growth of the trade deficit, because we import a huge amount of equipment, so we expect a boom in the coming years, and we import a large amount of raw materials for processing. This means that if we imported a huge amount of equipment and a huge amount of raw materials this year, that next year there will be a boom of exports in Serbia, that there will be a huge expansion of production. But it's a story. So I'd like you to give me an official document, any document that applies to this year that confirms it. A document from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, anyone. Second thing, if we're already speaking the language of fact, tell your associate not to bother you, wait till I'm done. So is it true, Mr. Antic, that our 4% growth, which you're boasting about, here, I've taken a little time and to calculate it, is at an annual level of $288? You say you're European champions. In Germany, 2% of GDP is $1,035. Double lower growth, and four times higher in absolute amount. That's the point. If you're talking about the essence, this is the point. This shows the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the lives of the citizens of Germany. That's the point. The point is purchasing power. You want to talk about the price of electricity? It's no problem. You're talking about this basic price, no excises and no VAT and no other, maybe even the biggest scam, so it's not the price, because citizens don't pay that price, citizens pay the red tariff. Red tariff, Mr. Antichu, one kilowatt is 17.52 dinars. When an excise is added 18.83, when VAT is added to 22.6 dinars. Now, that's already in Finland, and compare the income of the citizens of Finland or Belgium or Germany or any other European state with the citizens of Serbia. Finally, to draw conclusions and the essence - purchasing power, let's see how much these kilowatts can monthly from the average salary to afford the citizens of Serbia and how much from the countries in the environment. Earths around here, here, I end up in another sentence, no red tariff. As much as you spend, you pay. Is it a market economy to punish citizens of Serbia who spend more electricity by paying three times as much? Is that a market economy? The more products you spend, the more expensive you pay, so where's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61834	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61835	Okay, MPs need to be general practice and I really think it's extremely important, because one MP can't just be a lawyer, he has to be a little bit of his own on everything else, but he has to be in this Parliament when he has to give himself the right to speak rightly and to fundamentally check out what he's talking about and know it. Unfortunately, my esteemed predecessor with whom I have really been working with and have been at war for years, and I have respected him as a man who knows how to prepare for the debate, he didn't do it today. Because across the EU, and take Eurostat data and across Europe, electricity prices are based on the average price of electricity. Such data when compared to Serbia, I repeat, in the region, the EU is convincing with the lowest electricity price. Only Ukraine, and it seems to me that Georgia, which has no parameters to compare, could, in fact, be said to have a lower price. But when it's brought to the level of this data and the one-brave display of data, they're more expensive than we are. You can't pull my red tariff now, I don't know, it's in the daily maximum. Why didn't you say how green she was, how nighty? She's one comatose little dinar. That is why the average electricity price is currently being observed and you are absolutely wrong that Serbia has there, it is called the "semaphor" tariff. It is something that is mass present and is even being introduced now and in EU countries. So it's called "a traffic light," well, here, that's what I call it. So that's something that's generally spread across Europe, and I repeat, Serbia has really the lowest price of electricity on that basis. She can't be simply referred to as a profit either. Simply, the cost of creating energy exists and it must be economically justified and we really keep that price of electricity at a minimum level and we do so in a way that the EPS is literally kept at a minimum of the necessary funds for both investment and maintenance, without profit, without profit, because we respect the social economic situation in Serbia. So maybe with a little bit more emotion, I'm talking about this, because I know how hard it is to have an EPS to be successful and to be competitive with these prices compared to all other electricity producers. We repeat, we are only doing this for Serbia's citizens alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61836	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61837	Mr. Antic, you honor me for starting with that most tariff. No, I just first said what this lower tariff is and what the price of the lower tariff is. The problem is that you in public often... (Alexander Antiquic: What's it like? 5.94 dinars is the basic price of kilowatts in the green tariff, and the problem is, and you should know that as a minister... (Alexander Antiæ: No, I want you from that pay phone to say how much is it.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61838	Minister, I'll give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61839	Come on, be nice, Mr Antic and don't throw it to the MPs. So, you should respect... (Alexander Antiquic: No, only to you. I didn't hear what he said, yeah, just to me. Thank you, I'm honored, Mr. Antic, for causing these special emotions in you and, as you say, holding me tight, well, let's not get any further into it. Now, if we're talking about the price of electricity, you're running away from the essence. So you're talking about how low the price of electricity is. The lowest costs in Europe are costs in Serbia. Is that true? Can you compare the salaries of engineers in Finland, Belgium, Germany and Serbia? You can't. By nature, things must be cheaper, several times cheaper in Serbia than in European countries. What do you want, the most expensive electricity in Serbia? But get back to the point, let's compare purchasing power and kilowatt price, and see how many kilowatts can buy for the average salary of residents in Serbia, as much as in Belgium, as here, as much as there. That's the point. It's very difficult to live in Serbia. You don't know, don't talk about it. You don't know that, because you don't live that way it's completely obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61840	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61841	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when amending the Law on the Budgetary System and the way the funds are spent, you say that, thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, fiscal space has been created which will be used in 2019 in addition to increasing capital investments and eliminating crisis measures in pensions and salaries, then increasing the lowest wages in the public sector and pensions. We have repeatedly pointed out that the price of work is by no means a social category and that it must not be, but rather a profit, and that the minimum wage, or minimum labour price, only makes sense if minimum living conditions are to be provided. The existence and dignity of a large number of citizens and their families in Serbia is threatened precisely because so-called a minimum of 30,000 dinars is less than the minimum consumer basket amount. With such a minimal, that is, with such a minimum profit, most Serbian citizens cannot make ends meet. You know for a fact that most workers in Serbia, and that's more than half a million, receive a minimum. We insist that the minimum labour price starts to be treated as a profit and that it must not be below the minimum cost of the consumer basket, because it is the only way a worker can provide a basic existence for his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61842	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61843	Thank you. To continue this more than interesting debate with Minister Antic and this issue of GDP. Here's a question for you, Mr. Antić, at a happy time in that first extended mandate of the Communist Party from 1945 to 1990, in 1980 Serbia had a $19,000 average gross product per capita. Is that the correct information, you understand? You're assuming he is, okay. Now, at this rate, although it was smaller last year, but with that 4% GDP growth, which is the question of whether we will have every year, unfortunately, the question is, if we have a 4% growth per year for the next 25 years, do you know what our GDP level is going to be in 2044? The same one we had in 1989. Same one we were 55 years ago. And you're now talking about whether you look good, whether you're someone's picture and opportunity 50 or 60 years ago, but the fact is that's not what you promised Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens want a better life, but not for their grandchildren and not for their great-grandsons or great-grandsons, they want them to live better, they want their children to live better and decent, and they want to be able to afford some normal things, that they can buy electrical devices in the house, that they can buy a new car sometimes, that they can buy children's apartments without having to steal, cheat, fake diplomas and who knows what else. Now, that's the point. So, Serbia needs much faster growth, it needs that economic boom you're talking about, you say -- we're world investment champions. Does this mean that GDP will grow so quickly, that gross social product will rise at not 4% but 8%, then that would be an improvement, or 12% or 16%? Because it's not the same as if a country has $60,000 a year or has 7,207 as Serbia. That's a huge difference. Our starting position is incomparably worse, and if we don't want to be the best, but to bring the country into a decent state, that our citizens live decently, then we have to move on incomparably faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61844	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61845	First of all, I'm impressed by one fact, maybe I haven't been in the Assembly for a while, and apparently some things are changing in Serbia. I am today, people, in Serbia, sure that Serbia will be a successful country, when Mr. Sarovic began to deal with the economy, because it is the economy that is the key to everything and we need to get out of the dry policy that unfortunately has always brought Serbia back and that we are dealing with the economy and that we are dealing with the future. That's one big thing for me. If I were an MP, I would applaud, because Mr. Sarovic began to deal with the economy and a great greeting for it. However, what he was talking about best goes in favor of all that the state is doing. Of course, well, the whole of Serbia knows, everyone in Serbia knows that our GDP today is not at 1989 level. And why is it smaller? Well, because since 1989, as a state and society, we have been through one common disaster, the collapse of Yugoslavia, the war in the environment, sanctions, bombings, all these horrors that have hit Serbia and the Serbian people have brought us into this position. That is why today we should turn to the economy and try all together to make sure that Serbia progresses and progresses further in the coming period, and that more Serbia should primarily be politically stable and politically focused towards progress, development and future. Unfortunately, some policy, whether in part ours, but mostly a broader policy towards the former Yugoslavia has led us into this debacle, and we today must not allow as a society, as politicians, as people to repeat it to us. That is why we should turn to Serbia, turn to ourselves and make every single one of us in our domain the greatest possible way to make Serbia progress. It's good for me today when I listen to you too that you think Serbia should go faster than 4%. Of course, and when we say that, we need to understand what we're talking about. Today, even the largest emerging economies, like China, don't go to those percentages you're talking about, 8, 12, 16%, go to some level of 6-7%. Imagine, one China that develops goes up to 6-7%. It is also good that Serbia is developing by 4%, compared to that disaster that we have experienced and let us switch from a policy that can bring us back, rather than turn back to the future, and that we all do together and that every year we have 4%, because it is very difficult and it needs to be done a lot. Many of these people here, I'm not talking about myself, but a lot of people work primarily in the ministries of economy, agriculture, economy, energy and mining, so that the percentage of 4% is feasible. Many both the president and the entire government are making efforts to make it part of the real future life in Serbia, and I am glad that parliament understands that and I am glad that opposition MPs understand these priorities and that at the end of the day, however, as far as I can see, they support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61846	Thank you, Minister Antic. Now the word has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61847	Mr. Antichu, you obviously don't understand anything. So I neither support your government nor support your work nor support your priorities. What you're saying -- well, it's good that Serbia has 4% of GDP growth, it might be good for you, for the citizens of Serbia, it's not. I just explained why he didn't. Because at that rate, we're going to be huge steps for you, and in fact they're steps of the Liliputan, which is only 25 years from now, we're going to reach the level of gross social product 40 years ago, and that's a disaster, that's not good enough. How can you compare Serbia and China? You're trying to demean me, and you say I'm starting to deal with the economy, I've been doing it a long time. But how can you compare China's economy, one of the strongest economic forces in the world and Serbia? On what basis did you compare it? So that's completely pointless. Don't engage in empty political speeches and flossulas. You're talking about how hard it is for you to make those 4%. If you are unable to make 8%, 10% and 12%, get out of that place, don't let Serbian citizens be your hostages for another 20 years. That's not enough. You're not chosen to talk about how hard it is for you and how hard you're trying. No one picked you up with a gun, so he forced you to go to the government, but you were scrambling and lying to Serbian citizens, promising 100 billion euros in investments. Where's 100 billion euros? Did we get that much investment? Did we hear an apology from the citizens of Serbia, that there are no such investments? Of course not. That's what the point is. Are you doing something? You're doing something. Is that good enough? It's not good enough. That's the point. You say the problem is, Serbia must be politically stable. So, what do you want to shut down the multiparty system, you want to re-enter one-party? Do you think something will be better then? So why is it unstable, political Serbia, for what reason? Do you have a majority, almost two-thirds, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why is she unstable? Because you fight and argue with each other in government? Is that why he's unstable? Well, that's your problem. This is the problem of your coalition relations and with 126 MPs, it can be a stable government of the Republic of Serbia. You have far greater support. Therefore, you have all the conditions at your disposal. Always boasting about the huge support of the citizens, boasting about the best of the staff, boasting about the idyllic relationships. Give us a score. When you're asked for a result, it's like he stuck his finger in your eye. Come on, you speak instead of floscules and empty political stories, you speak the language of facts and figures, and so it's best and fairest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61848	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61849	I wanted to commend my colleague Sarovic, he says I'm demeaning him, so I'm withdrawing any compliment from you regarding your dealings with the economy, because you've demoted it now, because at the end of the day my first feeling is not cheating, yet it's always politics and nothing else and unfortunately it's incorrect by many reasons. First, in 1989 she was 30 years ago, not 40 years ago, so for a good economy she needs a little math. So 30 years. Secondly, really when someone tells me, growth needs to be 8%, 10%, 12%, 16%, I realize that there is a fundamental misunderstanding and economy and any economic trends in Europe, anywhere in the world. So, at a time when the whole world was in one strong economic development, countries that had the fastest economic growth and development, at that point they had 6% – 7% in continuity. So that's why I'm talking about China, because China was a leader in it and it had 6% – 7% and I say, exactly what you're worshiping me, so China and Serbia can't measure, according to that economic growth and development. China that has the economy with the largest growth and development, with 6% – 7% and therefore I say it is good when Serbia, under these circumstances, has 4%. This is especially to be said today, when the global economy is in slowdown, when EU countries have a growth of 1% to 2%, as a consequence, I repeat a strong economic slowdown, which is part of the global trend, which is part of the US-China trade war, which is even reflected now and in the strong slowdown of China's 11/2 JJ/VZ economy, to talk about Serbia having 10%, 12%, 16%. Well, it's fairy tales and I'm just against talking fairy tales, because mostly those stories that were spoken from the mouth of politicians in Serbia ended in tragedy, and that's why I'm asking you to do a little more serious economics and to be realistic about it and to be serious, if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61850	Thank you, Mr Antic. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61851	Mr. Antiću, to explain something to you in the economy, there are no high growth rates in highly developed countries. China, when it started with this huge economic expansion, had high percentages of GDP growth in that period because they had an economic lift. You can't expect Germany that's stable for many years, that Switzerland that's stable for many years has such economic takeoffs. Serbia without a serious economic lift, without a major expansion, will never reach the level of GDP of developed countries. If, Mr. Antiću, does not grow, and very soon our GDP will continue to leave the citizens of Serbia, it will go after a better life, the borders are opening. You can see that Germany is open, which is completely insane in my opinion, in collaboration with the PKS, organising language learning courses, organizing everything possible to make it easier for our experts, our doctors, to get documents and to work in Germany. It's a tragedy for Serbia. If we lose the best, the most qualified, the most educated, the most experienced. Well, who's going to make 4% of the GDP increase in Serbia, there's no magician. You need to create conditions for people to stay. What you're doing right now isn't enough. People are leaving more than they left before the October 5th coup revolution. That's the problem. It's a huge problem for Serbia. They're all over the place. Some coalition unfortunate people suggest that migrants settle in Serbian villages and say this way we can solve the issue of negative birth. Is that the best you can offer for Serbia? We don't want it, it's completely wrong for us. It takes economic consequence for people to see the prospect of staying in their own country, without it we will fail as a state and as a people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61852	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61853	First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of the issue of the average salary that has just not reached 500 euros, has been presented as a great victory, so the Serbian government in the economics field, although much has nothing to do with reality. On a simple case, I'll show you how much it doesn't matter. So, if the people sent have a salary of 76,000 dinars, for example, the governor of the NBS, Jorganka Tabakovic, has a salary of 600,000 dinars, so one MP and Mrs Tabakovic would have an average of 340,000 dinars, although that MP still needs 280 more to that figure. There, then, is a bill that calculates the average salary in Serbia. So there are about a thousand directors in public companies with 300 or 400,000 dinar salaries, and there are people who work for a minimumer but on average that's 500 euros. So, nebulose. The value that divides two groups, about half of which, which could be said to be the most frequent salary in Serbia, does not exceed 300 euros today, in all of Serbia, and these averages, it really has nothing to do with relativity. Since 2000, since October 5th, a mob coup, there has been a privatisation robbery in Serbia, so-called "Privatisation". shock therapy where sugar can be bought for a dinar, where our businesses, factories and everything else have been sold. We heard promises that it would change in 2012. What has changed economically since 2012 to today? Nothing. It's all the same. Foreigners still have an absolute monopoly in each sphere, in Serbia's economy. The International Monetary Fund wonders what will be the price of electricity and the price of this, and the price of that and wages and pensions, and everything else, and the least important is pre-election promises. You, Mr. Minister, represent one party that participated until 2012, in the ruling coalition and since you failed to bring that coalition down from within, you are now among the critics of what was happening back then. But if we talk about it, we can't say that it was all bad, but what difference does it make, we won't look into the past. Well, it doesn't start with one government, everything like it wasn't anything, and it doesn't end with one government. Just because this government may be better than some previous government does not mean that it is now good or that it is now a golden age for citizens of Serbia, it is an obvious fact, especially as some economy is stronger, the richer the country is, that economic growth is smaller. And this economic growth of 2.3 or 1%, if I were to compare to economic growth in Serbia in absolute numbers, is about four or five times higher on average per capita. And now we say that China and Serbia have some points of comparison that's really ridiculous. Do you think the Chinese will now suffer from Serbia's sudden economic rise? So, first of all, dependence on foreign investors and, of course, to reduce, and then care about the poorest, rather than those invented with 500-euro salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61854	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. The word is Alexandra Belacic. Here you go, Mrs. Whitey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law requiring the erasure of attitude 35 in an existing Article 27e. I think it's extremely important that we hear what this attitude is about. So, he says -- exclusively from the position of 34 of this member, working relationship with new persons can be based with the consent of the tele-government, on the proposal of the competent ministry, or another competent authority, with the previously obtained opinion of the ministry. The attitude of 34 states that users of public funds cannot start a working relationship with new persons in order to fill open, or empty jobs by 31 December of this year. This, in practice, means that you banned employment in the public sector by your 34th position in order to allow for such employment by way of a position in 35th. I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know that when the media transmit that there is a ban on public sector employment that it applies only to permanent employment, while, of course, employment in certain types of contracts is very accessible and that is how the government employs its staff. That's how he keeps them on the leash, because then they're obliged to prove themselves, to work for the party that hired them, to write those comments on social networks, to ask for safe capillaries or whatever, so that their contract can be extended. If someone in these jobs points out, we can still see that there is a possibility that they end up getting a permanent job. It's actually two trends that appear before each election. The first trend is this alleged ban on public sector employment, which then takes place behind us all, through these contracts, temporary and occasional. The second trend is to increase wages and pensions, which of course we have opportunities to see before each election. But, as my colleagues said in the budget debate, it's only pre-election, and it's so little that its effects over a few months when life costs don't feel at all. With that in mind, I'd like to give you one suggestion, if you want to raise wages and pensions to a sufficient extent to make their effects feel even after a few months, it would be good for you to find the money for that increase by stopping funding a number of agencies and NGOs that only work is to muddle your country and your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61856	Thank you, Mrs. Whitey. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61857	I suggested that this percent of 10% be replaced by 2%, and now let me explain what this is about. You have foreseen this bill that you will be able to employ up to 10% in the public sector for a certain period of time and in the occasional and temporary jobs. Then you say you did not accept the amendment that we have submitted because you say -10% does not contain the law but is given the authority of the government's body to decide on new employment and additional employment in the control of public funds. Well, thank you for admitting what we say. That is the problem, because you have a government commission that formally, in fact, only exists and covers what is done realistically in public sector employment, that is, for all direct and indirect budget users. And you predicted that it was possible for 10% of people to work in each segment, 10% of people at a certain time or under a contract for occasional and temporary jobs. It's just unsustainable. You know, in any company, any legal person who employs some people if a long period of time needs to be employed for a certain period of time, it's normal for it to mean that a certain amount of time has to be interrupted, because it means that there is a need for people to work all the time. If in one of these state-owned enterprises, institutions, NGOs and government organizations financed from the budget, if 10% of the people are scheduled to work for a certain time, so why don't you see these people permanently? Imagine what 10% is. We've suggested that it be a maximum of 2%, because it really happens sometimes such circumstances that it takes some people to hire for a certain time, but 10% is too much. On the other hand, in many institutions you have people who work overtime for much longer and much more hours at work than they are paid, because the law limits how many overtime hours can be paid. Instead of looking at it, you say - no, no more employment in the following year, because those who are for a certain time will welcome us in a pre-election campaign for all those jobs that should be done by party activists, and more importantly, they will provide ballots where they will photograph circled that they voted for ruling parties. It's already been seen, so we're not finding hot water now, it's already been seen. On the other hand, you've agreed here and you agree to have some McCallister, Cook, Fleckenstein and so on, and you won't listen to the MPs of the SRS, to do some things that really make this election campaign as clean as possible. It is not a problem in that basic law, the Law on Elections, except that it is a problem that you do not want to return the possibility to implement in the law the position of the Constitution which says that the MP has the opportunity to entrust his mandate to a party whose lists have come to the National Assembly, so you will not do such a thing, and you will listen to who knows the stories of these two exhausted European former parliamentarians. Imagine a function, imagine jurisdiction, imagine authority, imagine the influence of "ex-legislator"? It's simple. It's amazing. You listen to someone you don't need to listen to, and you don't want to solve problems here in the National Assembly. You must remove the employment ban for next year, you must, because people from Serbia are leaving. You disagree that doctors go mass, and can you imagine, Minister, that in this situation there are still unemployed doctors in Serbia? It's just that you're not thinking about life. When I say that, I mean generally government, and as for this employment for a certain time and abuse, believe me, McAllister will resent you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61858	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61859	Indeed, I repeat, I listen very carefully to this, and I don't want to do so much in every micro-second, but just to say that the Public sector's maximum number of employees expires at the end of this year, and it's not up to it to extend it, so those issues in 2020 will be, I say, in another regime, where we will try not to get any excessive employment in the public sector, but there will be no more of these legal bans themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61860	Thank you, Minister. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61861	You're wrong, Minister. The draft law on the budgetary system states that the application of the law continues until the end, that it is also applicable for 2020. It's in this bill of law. Are you going to change that in the Budgetary System Act with the budget for next year, we don't know, but it says now that you obviously missed it too... (Alexander Antiæ: Just a commission...) Well, I know, Minister, just a commission. I understand what you're saying, Minister - the commission only extends the work, and the commission serves not to strip... What do you need a commission if the ban is lifted? Then you don't need a commission, then every ministry, every public enterprise, every institution, every body, etc., will be employed according to their needs. What commission? Now there's not going to be a commission sitting there dawdling and talking, I don't know, Minister Djordjevic how much he needs an inspector to work, because we're here complaining he's missing an inspector. Minister Zlatibor Lončar complains that he lacks an inspector, Zorana Mihajlovic complains that she lacks an inspector, and we say every time - remove the ban, receive the people. How dare the minister complain to the assembly, that he lacks an inspector, that he lacks any? Did the congregation ever put on the agenda and ask for a reduction in the number of employees? No, it was asked by the government, and the congregation majority accepted that new employment should be banned. So, Minister, to avoid confusion, for the sake of the public, you have extended the ban on employment in the public sector for the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61862	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61863	We have extended the work of the Commission to prevent us from having excessive employment in 2020, not to have, to say, "explosion" of public sector employment, but to be part of a system in which all budgetary users will be able to have those jobs and those jobs they need at this point. For several years, we had, to say, certain bans, i.e. slowdowns in public sector employment. We don't want it to be an uncontrollable process now that we've abolished that legal restriction, in which we'll have everything we don't want, either you or I. So, over-employment in the public sector, over-costs of the public sector, don't give God party employment, etc., so that the Commission has to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61864	The true replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61865	It's not a neck. It's a neck. Really, Minister, do you think I don't know anything about what I'm saying? First, don't give God party employment, now whoever's been watching this session is laughing people out. Well, how do you hire rather than party? When was the competition someone got a job at? Don't touch what we haven't already started. If we go into it, we'll go far. Minister Atnic, let me teach you something. How can there be an explosion of employment in your ministry? Do you have a job system? Yes, you do. Is this systematization approved by the Government? Approves. So what kind of black commission, the government says – Antic, you have 120 employees, you say – I need 150, at the government explain why you need another 30. If you conclude at the Government that you should, you say – well, we accept the systematization, and if they say – no, no, you're getting a lot of what you have, you're reducing. So don't talk fairy tales now. Do not insult the intelligence of the peoples and the peoples. So that commission means and implies that it is an extension of the ban on public sector work. None of the ministers who sat before you these days reacted and no one objected because they knew we were right, and now you're trying to defend the undefense. So, will you take away that commission's jurisdiction... that is, the commission needs to be disbanded. What's with the commission? Government. There are ministers sitting on that committee. What's it to you if there's no restrictions on employment, and there is. So you're still not going to hire and it's not for a job explosion, as you say. I told you before, I counted three ministers, there are at least five who complain that they can't do their job because they don't have enough inspectors to do what they know is a problem on the ground. Who's gonna do that? Well, those people you're gonna hire. Work, Minister, but as long as you need and no more party, call the competition. You have young lawyers, economists there at the Employment Service, looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61866	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61867	Mr. Minister, you've gotten the impression that with disgust, you're talking politics, and you shouldn't, but you're saying we're not talking politics, economics and anything else. If you weren't a politician, Mr. Minister, you'd never sit where you're sitting right now. You're an economist and I'm going to need a little explanation, given that you're an economist, that you explain to me why the establishment of a culture is a 10% increase and the preschool institution is an increase in salary from 1 November by 9%? Why does some increase 15%, some 9%, and some 10%? What's it on? Are there any economic rules there? They're not very clear to me. I've been trying to find out a little bit, see what it's about and what it's about. Whether it's left to someone at will when they open a factory or something like that they can say – now you're going to have an increase in that amount. I hope you'll explain it to me a little bit, so it'll be easier for me and I can explain it to the citizens. By the way, we don't mind increasing the income of the people that are provided for in this article, even if we could do more. We're real people and we never ask for more than we can ask for. That might be good, and they're mostly covered here by employees in those spheres where they're either hard-to-responsible jobs or there's not enough or to sort of speed up staying there. You talk very often about an average salary of 500 euros. Let's say that's quite true, and one of my fellow SRS has explained how to get to that average, but explain to me, Mr. Minister, from my love, it's one small place, over the last year, about 950 people would say from 40 to 45. This year's trend continues. I think there'll be about 1,000 people. If these are such high and good average wages, what makes a man leave his family, leave his home, and go after the bread with his belly, what would you say? Let's see here, if possible, change something. This, when you say you'll keep a commission that will control that there won't be an explosion in employment, which you don't trust, Mr. Minister? There are no Serbian radicals or others who are against this government, so now, there is something wrong with you, so they will suddenly receive a number of new employees, which would bring a new number of votes. There's one more thing. When pensions and salaries are reduced, they are reduced linearly by all and the value added tax has been increased. The lower tariff rate was 8, now 10%, higher 18, now 20%. You never talked about it. Have you thought about how roses bloom so much that the rate of value added tax is reduced, so that we can try to get the citizens to meet? There's one more thing, I think, everyone sitting in the Department of Energy like there's some kind of ball or something. There was one lady who was right before you, but she was in that ministry and she advised the citizens of Serbia, you haven't yet arrived at that level, of course, I hope you won't, advised if they can't settle their obligations to Infostan and others, to sell these large apartments, so that they can sell apartments located at a location near the Moscow Hotel and so on, to buy some of the others less on the periphery. Sometimes you too go in that justice when you advise Serbian citizens to use the night tariff. What, make vampires out of Serbian citizens now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61868	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61869	A few old ones just taxing. First of all, I absolutely didn't talk to any disgust about politics. First of all, everything in life is politics and this debate today is politics and we live in a system where politics has an absolutely significant place both in us and in the whole world and in this time. So, I absolutely respect politics, I understand, but I'm talking about the economy and the economic tragedies that Serbia has experienced, I think, with great right, I said that politics has played a strong role in all this both ours and the environment and globally. That is why I am saying that I highly respect that, at this point in time, if we really want Serbia to move forward, we put the economy in the right place, and when it comes to establishing a system of political tolerance and political stability and so much about it. When it comes to employees, it's not about trust, it's about mistrust, it's about the need for some things to be consolidated. You know, it's not good when ministers go out and complain that they're missing executors, inspectors or employees, and it's not good that the fact that each of us certainly lacks a number of perpetrators is then solved in a way that is more politically powerful, who is faster, who can exert more pressure. For this very reason, we also need to have a body that will consolidate and prioritize all of our demands in relation to real needs and financial opportunities. We simply won't be able to go from January to each other to solve all our problems, but we'll have to do with financial opportunities and the fact that we have a budget framework for earnings, that each and every once in a while solves the issues of missing employees in its system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61870	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61871	I personally think, Mr. Antic, that you're a good minister, and right now you're saying what I insisted on you to come to those positions. Politics is something that can't be avoided. Price policy, here's now for someone to know, there's a policy price and there's a lot of policies. Now you say politics in public administration and so on. It is necessary and it must exist, but you have talked – dry policy. Not only did politicians in Serbia participate in creating such a situation. Serbia was under a lot of pressure, especially in one period before 2000, and even after 2000, strong pressure from the outside. Of course, they found those who would help them inside, as they are now, and then the citizens of Serbia paid tribute to that too. They didn't tell me anything about how it came to be these different percentages in salary hikes? You don't even have to answer, I'm going to tell you one danger that will arise after this kind of adoption, or this kind of amendment of the law. Many executives, presidents or what is called there, in independent regulatory bodies, NGOs, do you know Mrs. from the Ministry of Finance that their personal incomes, or incomes, are related to whether to the judges of the Constitutional Court or perhaps to the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation? So, they will unfairly come into a situation to raise their wages because the Laws on the formation and establishment of these bodies provide that their wages will be tied to the salary of the judge of the Cassation Court or the Supreme Court. It is now a great danger, and here if there is a sincere need for public sector employment, I think that, Mr. Minister, is without reason this level of fear that there will now be some excessive employment. This has to be responsible. This had to be taken into account by now. And indeed, the fact is that, when I tell you, I don't personally think of you, the most appropriate job opportunities for a certain time, especially now, they said in 2020, are more serious employment on an undefined basis where objective needs exist, will come after the elections have been held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61872	Thank you, colleague Perich. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61873	Mr. Minister, I would consider this day to be a great day for the reason that you have maximum involvement that the facts you on your part, we, on our part, are going to show, because the court of citizens is the only one who is valid and the citizens will know that the assessment of who was right. Now, we've heard a lot of your arguments, and we've heard from our MPs the key things we wanted to talk about, which is what Serbia's citizens' lives are currently like in relation. One is numbers, the numbers can't affect every citizen individually, that's normal, but let's look at how the situation really is. You're at one point when we talked about how much life costs, who lives with two minimumers or a little more than minimum wage, so we could also take those who work for the minimumer and the average wage, but one thing we can't, one fact, we can't forget. There is a good part of Serbia's citizens, and you probably know them, married couples, where at least one spouse is unemployed. At that point, however paid, whether it's minimal or average, the question is how much above average, where it would be employed, if we look at the current factories and investors that are coming. Here, I watched 2 investors from Turkey last night, it's a good thing investors came, but they were mostly employees with basic and medium-sized expertise and salaries are minimal and slightly above minimum wage. So if one spouse doesn't work, life is even harder and it's a key thing that we can't agree on when you're out there, government representatives, in public, and you say -- here, it's going at this pace, going at this or going like this or going at it. So sometimes we have to set up a wider picture and we also have to talk about those citizens who are really very hard to live in the conditions that are in force today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61874	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61875	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6(1). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. I asked the amendment to say, “the government act” is deleted. Payment and spending of all public revenue must be controlled by the National Assembly. It is a fundamental democratic norm and there must be no deviation from it. Otherwise, what does the National Assembly serve? The MPs of the National Assembly are elected by the people in direct elections and the MPs have the highest legitimacy. People's MPs go out with their name and last name, so even before the election process ends, they know who will be their representative in the National Assembly. For government members, or ministers, this cannot be said. It is the MPs who choose and relieve the government and ministers. Of course, no one argues to the government and ministers to do business in their own district and no one wants to interfere in their jurisdiction. But on the other hand, no one should deny the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. One of the basic tasks of the National Assembly is to exercise control over the government. This is especially true of the most sensitive, which is the spending of people's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61876	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61877	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, submitted by the Serbian MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, proposed to delete Article 8. Article 8 of the Proposer wants to amend a member of the 54th existing law. The Serbian Radical Party through these amendments expresses its position on IPARD programmes and possible abuses in the distribution of these funds. It is proposed that the limitation laid down in Article 54(1) does not apply to the taking of commitments for investments in agriculture and rural development under IPARD 2 of the programme, and that there be restrictions on the obligations undertaken directly, i.e. indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources and beneficiaries of the mandatory social security organisations. In fact, these obligations must correspond to the appraisal granted to them for that purpose in that financial year. The essence of the Budgetary System Act is intended to spend budget funds, and it is precisely this member who defines it, and the proposer is now seeking to make it possible to disregard the law. Otherwise, the Budgetary System Act was devised in 2009, when the provisions that defined the crime were deleted from it, i.e. the criminal liability of the responsible person of the beneficiaries of the appropriations, of the then member of 74. In 2006, criminal provisions were laid down by law and criminal acts under the Budgetary System Act, but a new law was passed in 2009 that defines only a criminal liability for the non-compliance of this law. This creates the conditions for budget beneficiaries, i.e. their responsible persons can dispose of the budget, as well as those who wish to break the law and act only in violation of it, and most often they will be punished only by the warning of a misdemeanor court and no one at all. With such and similar practices, it would have to be interrupted. That is why we from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group have submitted amendments, so that this extremely important law would not be even more devised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61878	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61879	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system, where I asked for the removal of the said member in my amendment. In the light of my amendment, I have stated that this law and its application do not contribute to the successful application of the fiscal strategy of this government and this state. Of course, the government has not accepted this amendment. It's no wonder. The government, in principle, does not accept the amendment of the opposition. But what is indicative is an explanation why the government has not accepted this amendment of mine. According to the government, the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it cannot be associated with its reasoning. I believe that this argument is at least incorrect, because if one parliamentary group submits a large number of amendments to the proposal of one law, most or almost all of which, and sometimes all amendments, require the removal of members of that law, it is a clear stance and a clear sign to the Government that there is something wrong with that law, that a different approach, that perhaps the previous law, the old law should remain in force or so on. Indeed, this argument, which the Government has given, that it cannot be brought into connection with the amendments and its reasoning, absolutely does not stand, because from all the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, our position on this law is clearly expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61880	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61881	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin this story of mine with an old folk post office. It's not all about money, it's about money. This tautology speaks of the key importance of finance for both the economy and the individual and the business at all. We are entering the last quarter of this year or, to be precise, the financial years and this budget rebalance, future budget beneficiaries are being positioned for next year. The budget season starts, the atmosphere heats up, the temperature rises, the money is at stake, its distribution and redistribution. We know that there is no such precise apothecary scale that will accurately measure and divide how fair it is. We're a long way from everybody getting the same thing, because not everyone has been equal before, but there's always been budget favorites. In the end, there's no big difference between 8% and 9%. The budget system law, along with other finance laws, means searching and putting on the agenda of the state register. It's a serious job that requires a strong argument, with one inevitable question - are we throwing ourselves away or are we modest in our poverty? An open question for the government what does it want to strengthen, security, social security or development, science, culture or education? The government is on the test, in her hands are fiscal policy, rules, procedures, programmes and other instruments. The Serbian Radical Party has no objection to increasing the reception of those who wore crisis measures on their backs, only it would not be good if everything were done with some hidden thought, as it is going to the elections and such a gesture of government is the best way, or motivation for potential voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61882	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61883	Mr. Vice President, I would like to briefly support what Mr. Bojic said and add a few more sentences and ask Minister Antić and Madam Secretary of State, if we could one thing after this rebalance in preparation for the 2020 budget to return to the agenda, which is the debt of agricultural producers for health and pension insurance. Those debts are enormous. We have tried several times in this Assembly to start this idea, we have tried to form a working group within the Ministry of Agriculture, Finance, Health, Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and I think the moment has come before the budget for 2020 begins to be put back on the agenda. Debts are enormous and they amount to over two billion solely for health insurance. It's nice when we can rebalance the budget to share something that's earned and which can be adequately divided and it's nice when we talk about culture, about everything else, but on the other hand, no one mentions peasants here. On the other hand, none of them have any trouble hearing them, and it would be very good if in the upcoming budget the issue of health insurance debt... Once again, at this point more than 300,000 farmers in Serbia do not have a certified health book for debts from previous years without using health insurance at all. Please, first of all, Mrs. Tanaskovic, let these questions be restarted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61884	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE INVESTMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION ON THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION, you have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law: Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Ružica Nikolic, Nikola Savic, Petar Jojic, Zoran Despotovic, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Filip Stojanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Marijan Rističević, as well as the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61885	In the case of the Value Added Tax Act, Mr Minister, the biggest problem is the functioning of VAT vomiting for exporters. The law is one thing, but the other is a sublegal act. We have warned on time, and now it is an opportunity, when we are discussing the amendment and the addition of this law, to tell you that it is not right for this area to be regulated by any sublegal act, not just this one, but any one, and especially in the financial sector, because it can be interpreted twofold. Serbian citizens need to know that there is a VAT refund rule besides this law. If you, as an exporter within the prescribed time limit, submit orderly documentation and our exporters are in and how difficult this import lobby, which costs at least 800m euros a year to the state of Serbia, you should enable those people who are very difficult to place their products, mostly on their own, without any help and the incompetence of Chad from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and anyone else, to get that minority money when they submit the request. Why should they hold it back? You say we have an excellent inflow based on VAT collection, but please why, at the moment when the orderly paperwork is not given up, you do not make that vomit, but you are waiting for the last day. There were various extensions of those deadlines, but when any of them rebelled and called the tax administration, there could be a huge problem. What's so hard about that local tax director sending him a tax inspector? The tax inspector will always find something to punish him for. Mostly people are silent and suffering and waiting, and they don't have the opportunity to get through that money, because they did a great job, not only for their company, but also for the state of Serbia, when they expect that money to come back, invest in something they need through them, then they're forced to take short-term loans and loans for a month, three months, to have crafts, and that's how everything goes round, then the state and the Tax Administration of Serbia destimulate them. That's why this law isn't good, and that's why we've submitted these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61886	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61887	Mr. Minister with associates, risking to interrupt while you're eating chips in the National Assembly, I'd like to ask you something about VAT. I think this is a great opportunity to remind the citizens of Serbia that by 2012 the VAT rate in Serbia was 18% and 8% of certain life supplies and a certain other, I say, product group. One of the first moves of the regime in September 2012 was to increase the VAT rate. At the time, you justified it with a desire and a need to have higher revenue in the budget, and as we can see, the revenue is indeed higher. In 2012, the revenue of the budget amounted to 750 billion dinars. This year, Mr. Antic, just smile, it's 1,290 billion dinars. That's the difference between 540 billion dinars. So you were able to increase the revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget by an incredible 540 billion dinars or 72% compared to what was at the time of the previous government in which you also participated. My question is this, if you had to ban employment in the public sector, to cut salaries for employees, to subtract part of pension pensions from pensioners, even though it is now a golden age and it has finally blossomed Serbia, do you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia think about reducing a little pressure on the citizens of Serbia? So 540 billion dinars is not small. That's the amount you take more from the citizens today than the economy of Serbia, than the state took seven years ago. That's a huge amount. The question is, why is there only one-time aid of 5,000 dinars? The question is, why are you still holding that high VAT rate? Why not make life easier for the economy in different ways, and perhaps that is what is needed for this economic upheaval? Why don't you increase that untaxable share of the profits? There are many ways to help those who have the least in Serbia, to show solidarity in this way, and that, according to these economic indicators, is something that would be possible. I am interested in your position and the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61888	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61889	First of all, if the value added tax went from 18% to 20%, then when you turn it into a mathematical formula, it increased by some 10 comas to a little percentage. It is impossible, Mr. Sarovic, in any mathematics or even yours, that when something increases by 10%, it causes an increase in income of 72%. It's just impossible. If you were 18 and you raised to 20, it's 10% increase and it can't cause an increase of 70%. To achieve an increase of 70%, the overall economy and everything in this country must be increased. So you've been carrying out your data that you may not have understood very well, but you've read it well, you've proved exactly what we're talking about, that Serbia has had huge growth in all segments over the past few years, so as a result, of course, VAT growth. Of course, when you have growth, then you share that growth with budget users, which is why we have this much cost increase. I would remind you that with this rebalance, which we were considering at point one, we had an increase in revenue of 3.7% and an increase in expenditure of 4%. So, all that new budget revenue we share with the citizens of Serbia and we're just coming to why we've been doing this. So, we have succeeded in one responsible economic policy, growth and development of Serbia, in which the whole of Serbia has contributed, from every citizen, parliament, government, all participants in Serbia's economic life, to contribute to this growth of Serbia, and this has been reflected in our budget, and then we share that growth with the citizens of Serbia. So no one took the citizens of Serbia 72%, as you said, more than it was some reference year. No, VAT has brought only 10%, Serbia's growth and development remain, and we all need to be aware of that, I hope and proud -- and this parliament, which has made a huge contribution to its legislative activity, to all of this, to its constructive proposals that we always listen to and take a good look at and understand well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61890	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61891	Mr. Antic, whatever you've been eating in those benches in the National Assembly, I'm asking you to stop, since it obviously doesn't suit you. So, I'm not just saying something as stupid as you just said -- if I thought that increasing the 2% VAT could increase the budget by 72%, I could never think of such a stupid thing, let alone say it. Mr. Antiću, come on slowly, I'll talk slower now and you concentrate, I reminded myself of the fact that in September 2012, the Government of the Republic of Serbia raised the general VAT rate from 18% to 20% and a special rate from 8% to 10%. Among other things, that and all kinds of other charges, excises and a lot of other things. So all of this has led to the increase of the budget in these seven years by 72%, which is a huge amount. So 72% is away from increasing gross social product in that period and you can't say -- here, we had an expansion in Serbia because we didn't. My question was completely different. Try to concentrate and answer it. So -- did you consider it to be one of the additional incentives to reduce the VAT rate to that 18%, what was it? So I asked additionally -- did you think about increasing the untaxable part of the profit, because that could also be one way to help just those who have the smallest incomes? You know, when the VAT rate is reduced, then you help everyone who spends something. If you increase the untaxable share of the profits, then you help the lowest incomes the most. And the state needs, above all, to take care of those who are on the minimal, not those who have salaries of 200, 300, 500 thousand dinars. They'll, we suppose, be able to manage themselves. Don't misread what one of the MPs says. If you don't understand, take a stenogram and read and see what my question was. So, in no way did I think that with an increase of 2% of VAT, it could increase the budget inflow by 72%. I did, Mr. Antic, finish law school in Belgrade, but before that, the first Belgrade high school, the legal and mathematical direction. To me, as far as I know, you're the University of Forests, right? But I've never disrespected you for your education, so be kind, Mr. Minister, neither do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61892	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Antichu, would you like a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61893	Of course, Mr. Sarovic tried to insult me here, but that was always the result of lack of argument. Since we, I repeat, co-operate and get along well or not for many years, but it has always been very clearly indicated by him, unlike distinguished colleagues who are always absolutely ready and always at the height of the task. He and when he's not ready, he loves those chips, and you're biting something that doesn't suit you, but, well, he certainly didn't learn it in first Belgrade high school, because we who finished fifth Belgrade high school know the first ones and they've always been nice and nice. Mr. Sarovic, you've heard from Cynthia Mali more times to negotiate with the IMF to increase the untaxed part of the profit from 15 to 16 grand, so you know it's done. You made it very clear that because of the increase in VAT, we achieved a higher budget revenue, or you said - you took 72% more to the citizens. Take a stenogram and look at it, because I wrote down what you said very carefully, and we know that when you and I enter the element that you sometimes forget, that's why I recorded it, and you, if you don't believe me, take it and read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61894	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61895	Mr. Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen, the main reason for this law is to comply with EU rules governing the area of taxation of VAT consumption. What is certainly not good is large imports from EU countries that are the largest and contributed to the crisis in Serbia, and we need to introduce customs duties on EU goods, as this will ensure revenue of more than half a billion euros. We insist on it. We suspect that if it continues like this, that is, if you persist in what is called the so - called “resistance. ” on the European path, that Serbia will lose these significant funds every year. It is then proposed that this proposal prescribe tax exemption with the right to deduct the previous tax on goods and services carried out in the context of the realisation of highway construction infrastructure projects, for which public interest has been established in particular by law. So you legally release the payments of this one that will build highways and anything that will be imported in the name of building these roads. We all agree that it is good for the roads to be built and that we need them and it is positive to invest in it. However, I can't help but mention Bechtel, which you gave 300m euros more because of a set tender, you even freed them from customs. The basic question is -- how many more miles of highway could it have been built from that 300m-euro difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61896	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are considering amendments to the proposal for a very important law, it's about a law of added value, so VAT law. When it comes to this law, you can't recant, or complain about the previous, former, DOS regime, because their VAT was lower than this. We know this VAT, so the value added tax was 18%, and now it's 20%. So it's increased by about 2%, or relatively, when it's recalculated, it's over 10%, or, exactly, 11.11%. It's a transcendent number, so you can't exactly say the exact number, because it's 11, so now it's an infinite number of units, because I see the minister doing well and beautifully with numbers. So, it must be acknowledged that, just like that, if closely observed, DOSs were more successful in this regard. Of course, and this VAT of 20% is one of the smallest additional taxes in Europe, especially smaller than our environment. Except for BiH, Macedonia and Montenegro in all other countries and in our environment and in the EU, especially if, for example, our two neighbours who are EU members are 25% in Croatia, as much as 27% in Hungary. So that's not the point. Their salaries are higher, pensions are higher, they are higher, and the main thing is to see with incomes that an ordinary citizen has, or an average citizen, can live. It has been shown that this minimum wage announced, the minimum labour price is still far from that minimum consumer basket and when these parameters are equal, when minimum pensions, minimum wages are in a position to cover the minimum consumer basket, well, then you can talk about the performance of fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61898	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61899	We are here in this article seeking intervention by asking to be added, as Article 16 states: "The official needs of international organisations, if provided for by the International Treaty, will be exempt from value added tax," and we have demanded here one precision, yes - if these contracts are ratified, then it is binding. You know the practice in the world, when it comes to applying these international contracts, that they have power even above domestic regulations in the form of laws or sublegal acts, only if they are ratified. Of course, a number of countries don't do that, but we also want to respect those international agreements that have been ratified. But here, when it comes to value added tax, Mr. Minister, more of my colleagues and members of the SRS highlighted and highlighted the problem of increasing the value added tax in 2012. And when that Mladjan Dinkic, known as the "gulkoza" ruled the finances of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, he did not have that amount of value added tax. Now we understand that the state may have, by doing and implementing exactly that kind of policy, found itself at a certain point in the crisis and that it should have been dealt with in some way, so let's just let the citizens of Serbia pay the price, you say. But was it necessary to run an analysis? For eight years, these increased, or increased tariff rates have been applied. What are the financial effects? What is the possibility of this country that you say is constantly, financially observed, in the upward line? Something you can see isn't everything that isn't, but we're still too much in charge of the state. Very often those in the finance sector say that we are now taking loans under more favourable conditions than we used to be. The price of capital on the market has a lower value. There are high obligations on employees, high obligations on employers and founders of companies receiving personal income from employment. Has the Ministry of Finance considered that reduction?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61900	Thank you, colleague Perich. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, another in a series of essential laws, when we talk about the area of economy, the fundamental problems that are happening in practice, and something that, when last year since the introduction of VAT and its increases, we didn't get a key answer – what is the level of taxes we've been making as a state? Secondly, I think it's a much more important thing, and as things stand, we're not going to hear this year, and that's where these financial resources are spent. We here listen months ago from ministers, government representatives to invest most of the resources in infrastructure, travel infrastructure and everything else, but the next question is asked – when will a government bring and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, pass a law on the final budget? That, what some minister is going to say, are you going to be convincing enough to tell us – here, that's where it went now, we're going to cut down here, we're going to add here, I can personally trust you, I know you well and I can trust you by word, but will the citizens of Serbia believe you? They won't, because they don't see where these funds are regularly paid through programming different financial assets and liabilities, where these funds have been spent all these years. That's where the questions are asked. And why, if you're not hiding, why, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia after 15 years, be the first government to pass the law on the final bill, look ourselves in the eye and see exactly where those funds are, as you say, saved or additionally earned, whatever they call them. Spent for all these years, so we're going to get to that 72% in seven years, through excises, through VAT, through everything else, where the budget is increased, the total nominal value that, where these funds for these seven years have been spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61902	I thank my colleague Damjanovic. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 8. At its meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to Article 8 was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61903	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8(3). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Act to add value. I asked the amendment to remove the provisions relating to specific purposes from the bill. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the law must clearly and loudly define all the things that are the subject of the law. I don't think there are any special purposes that can't be regulated by law. Otherwise, this immediately causes a certain suspicion that something is hiding and that someone wants to benefit from all of this. This, in particular, is about a law that regulates the most important fiscal matter, which is a value added tax. The additional value tax is the item from which the budget is most charged, so there must be no doubt here and no special purpose whatsoever. The value added tax may be discussed on the amount of that tax as to whether it is primary, our GDP, and the like, but there must be no place here for so-called. specific purposes. That's why I think you should reconsider and adopt the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61904	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61905	This article should be deleted and we have suggested this, because this article actually foresees a percentage of the relative tax deduction in the determination of goods and services, the determination of the percentage of the proportional tax deduction. Why do we think this should be erased? First of all, because of this attitude where you predicted that this applied to the occasional traffic of immovableity, you said from item 5 of point 3 of this article, and that under this, two immovable traffic are the highest in one calendar year. So this percentage of the proportional tax deduction will not be included in the case of someone carrying out two real estate transactions over the year. That means someone can resell two hotels, and he'll be free of VAT in this part, and he's making a little money. Then here you tried to explain to us how we didn't really understand what you were going to say, so then you said as an example, occasional immovableity traffic, it's those twice a year, you wrote in brackets, very often in these cases it's about VAT-free traffic, which is not entitled to a deduction of the previous tax, and less about the traffic for which there's a VAT obligation. Here, we've cited cases where there's no VAT release, and that's what I said, reselling two hotel complexes, twice a year, and reselling some big mall, so we can resell two times a year, and then resell some big restaurant, and again, twice a year, or all of this individually once a year, or twice a year. So, this is obviously meant for someone, we'll see by the end of this year and the beginning of next, it'll probably be in the papers, who's selling some big complex, hotel, or some mall, or some good restaurant, worked out, with a sound name, and then we'll remind the public that that's why you're someone, or some of them, or that you'll pass a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61906	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61907	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. First of all, speaking of VAT, as one of the greatest legacys, one of the biggest criminals in power since 5 October 2000, Mladjan Dinkic, and everything else that is the assets of October 5th and this policy that has been conducted, there is one thing that adversaries, i.e. SNS and SPS adopted by that DS. The Socialist Party of Serbia supported this in the establishment, so in 2011, the advances who criticised it when the institution I'm talking about, the public enforcement institution, first appeared in Serbia, the advances were against it, and after that they accepted and restored it, i.e. adopt the laws of 2015 and 2019 concerning the subject of enforcement. Mrs Nela Kuburovic said in the Assembly that they were only for the last six months or so. In the first half of this year, perpetrators paid in the name of VAT more than a billion dinars in Serbia's budget. So, public contractors, private workers, in fact, who charge debts and are enormously wealthy on debtors, are making extra profits, they paid billions of dinars, so they earned 5 billion dinars, because VAT 20%, and the Republic of Serbia, not only gave up four billion dinars in half a year, because this job was taken over by a public executioner instead of courts, closes our eyes to all violations of the law, brutality, haughtiness, indiscriminateness and crime that these perpetrators today in Serbia's service, but it's important that we have a billion dinars in the budget. So they paid their share, they gave 20% to rob Serbian citizens for that half year. So they paid taxes on their robbery. No one in Serbia's government finds that strange, no one cares and no one sees the problem. Then here we throw gold at each other, 500-euro salaries, never better, compare with China, and what I know. So that's what reality is in Serbia. On the other hand, if we really need to make some sovereign decisions and that we are interested in our progress in the sphere of economy and standards of our citizens, we should, above all, stop listening, without talking, the dictatorships of the IMF, and this government and the previous one, and even before 2012, the government in which you participated, has worked exclusively in the economy what the IMF says and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61908	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61909	Since this is the last amendment to the last of these three draft laws that we have discussed, which you are likely to adopt today, I would like to take this time to remind myself of some of the essential elements of these laws that the SRS MPs spoke about in principle debate, and here today, in particular, by amendments. We said it was quite surprising that the budget rebalancing was only a month before or a month before and the other day before the adoption of the new budget, as you announced it would be, and on the budget calendar and staying and how it should be. But you actually wanted to boast of the state of the budget, to boast of the surplus. Now, you know, it's not always a surplus that you should brag about, because the surplus also says that you didn't plan your budget and you didn't plan your spending well. You had where and how and during the year to spend this so-called. Excess funds and you have often boasted, all the representatives of the government, how about in Serbia there's money that you don't know what you're going to do with them. Then we often see those sad pictures, like multi-member families, kids that fate left without one or both parents in wasted, ruined houses, etc. You've never decided to talk to local self-governments and in some way order them, suggest, however, that everyone in their community solve these most drastic examples. It certainly wouldn't be much for the municipality, and for those families it would be a lot. You know, and today and today, we have, unfortunately, many families living in houses, homes where electricity is off, and we don't want to tell a populist sad story here right now, but we just need to sober you up, tell you what the real situation is in the state of Serbia. Let's remind you that in Serbia for so-called The minimum, for the lowest labour price, works more than 400,000 people today. You see, Minister, how it's possible that someone with that minimal that's 27,022 dinars, and that's how it's going to be by the end of this year, and from next year, it's going to be 3,000 more, so it's going to be 30,022 dinars, so let's ask how that gymnastics, when it's done, can someone push that month with that kind of money? Of course he can't. This is exactly the kind of family they are now with either the power off or the perpetrators at their door, or the perpetrators have already taken away something that has movable assets, threatening and confiscating immovable property, etc. It's a reality in Serbia, it's a state of affairs in Serbia. You like to brag about how you built, I don't know how many miles of highways, you finish corridors, etc. No one in their right mind is going to tell you anything bad about it. On the contrary, We will say: it is good to do it. Of course, we have these remarks. When we talked here that Bechtel would work part of the corridor from Preljina to Pojat for 300m euros more than the Chinese firm offered, we wanted our eyes out here. They say we make it up, that's not true. We've been saying this since October last year, here, just about these days, it's been a year since Vojislav Seselj first made it public at the conference and showed evidence, some kind of pre-contract that Zoran, without the knowledge of anyone in the government, signed with the "Bechtella" representatives. Here, 10 days ago it happened. Then they told us, you're against building highways. Imagine what a smart conclusion. So, it's not a problem that the highway is built, part of Preljina to Pojat, on the contrary, it's necessary, people who live there can't wait for those who pass by, and that's great, but the problem is that there's 300 million euros that could have ended that leg to Požeta, for example. Experts say it would be about that kind of money. It's not a good thing they made so many mistakes on the Grill, the wall collapse. The problem is that three or five days after the release of such a spectacular corridor, cracks appeared, which turned out to be an asphalt not six inches [5 cm] thick. The problem is that you build highways with a guaranteed two-year deadline. Well, the usual home machine you buy has a guaranteed deadline of five years. These are the problems we're talking about, when it comes to the infrastructure that you're boasting about. So, as far as the SRS is concerned, build, build roads, build corridors, connect all the villages along the road, a road network with municipality seats, but make sure that this job is clean, that it's not stolen on these jobs and that it's done in quality. But what's the everyday life of Serbian citizens is what we're talking about these days and what we want to talk about today, now, before this debate ends. Here Minister Sinisha Mali has told us several times that from next year, pensions will be coordinated according to the so-called. Swiss model. Incredibly, five minutes later I read the news, some of your pro-government newspapers, says – The Assembly of Breaks, pensions are coordinated according to the Swiss model. The congregation neither received the bill nor debated, nor adopted, amazing. So, you're trying this story to cloud the truth, and the truth is that in 2019 there was no increase in pension, and the truth is that Serbian radicals claimed there would be no increase in pension, because as nowhere else in the world, you left the government to determine how much, whether and how it would coordinate pensions, instead of being immediately in the bill, or later in the law, you predicted it. When the law comes on the agenda, we will read to the Minister what he said, and what we said, and it will be unpleasant for him, and for the MPs of the majority, and especially for those who read the written texts, they will be uncomfortable when we remind them that they have claimed that they should not be governed by the law, and we expect them to do so anyway. When it comes to pensions, you know, ministers, it's unacceptable for the lowest pension to be 7.5 times the highest. It's just amazing. This can't happen in some countries where you can live off the lowest pension. What's the SRS' position? Our view is that the lowest pension must be in the amount that this pension can live on, and that means, like that minimum pensioner, that it can't be less than 37,000 dinars a month. You said, your statistics, your data, that 37,000 dinars a month took a month to survive. What makes you think there's no right to survive 400,000 people who work for the minimum wage and their families, and why do you think there's no right to survive more than 300,000 pensioners who have these lowest pensions? You don't have that right, no one has that right. As scary as it is, I can't find another expression right now, it's terrifying that 105,000 people in Serbia, pensioners, receive about 10,000 dinars of pension. So what can he do with 10,000 dinars? What can he do? To buy a crumb to hang himself? It's just amazing that you've ruined that oldest part of our population so much. A pension of about 14,000 dinars receives 132,000 pensioners, 132,000 pensioners receive a pension of about 14,000 dinars. Do you think it's possible to survive with that amount and how these poor people are being abused and tortured? Try to walk through the market sometimes, to hear the troubles, to see how they buy and what they buy, to see how one fruit, one apple, is bought, and on the day when half of these 14,000 dinars are received. It's terrible, it's really terrible how much on the one hand you're trying to show how you're doing, how you're sorting out the facades, the roads, etc., we repeat, what no one has, but instead of doing these systemic things, you promised that everyone in Serbia would start to live better, you didn't feel that improvement. On the contrary, very difficult to live in Serbia, very difficult to live in Serbia, Minister. When you go around Serbia, don't just hear what they came to applaud, and they live hard, but they are people who believe in party politics for their own reasons. We have nothing against it, everyone has the right to think, to decide, to choose, etc., nothing is disputed. Listen to some people who aren't here to applaud you or anyone else in power. These people live hard. Do you know, Minister, that also the official data of about 300,000 children in Serbia does not have a third meal? Do you know, are you aware of how creepy the truth is? And you know what a third meal can be? And a third meal can be a piece of bread on some margarine and a cup of tea. He doesn't have that either. So, I'm finishing up my colleague Milicevic, and I can see that the time has been spent, just to recap. Minister Antić, when you are working on the budget, I believe it is already in the final phase, the draft budget for next year, take care of the ordinary citizen, the ordinary man. Don't make such proposals, where you finance NGOs and agencies and great-grandfathers, and I don't know what kind of gatherings, and the people are hungry, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61910	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61911	First of all, I would like to thank all the Members of the People for their discussion of the amendments. I think we had a dialogue that tried to throw a good picture at everything we're doing. Of course, it's not the opposition's job to praise the government and it wasn't, or anywhere there was, nor will it be here with you and with that population, indeed with one philosophical calmness, I understand certain critical tones which are not always absolutely real and we know ourselves that no one in Serbia, nor can we say that we are absolutely satisfied with life in all segments. It is hard not to say that Serbia is really progressing in those key, above all economic performances. You know what, we can argue now about whether 30,022 dinars are like minimum earnings something that from each of our individual angles is enough. Of course, we'll agree mostly, each of us thinks it should be more, but there's one thing we can't argue about. The minimum earnings in Serbia have increased by 54.37% in the past seven years, from 19,000 dinars to more than 30,000 dinars. It's a repeat success. This success is not just for ourselves, it is a success for Serbia, it is a success of the government, it is a success of parliament, but it is a success for all citizens who have taken active participation in all the measures of financial consolidation that have brought Serbia to the green branch. Serbia was in front of bankruptcy. Guys, I know that every one of us likes to have everything that's ugly and packed up for us somewhere in the small brain and relativize, but we just have to remember that Serbia was in front of bankruptcy and that the heavy measures of financial consolidation that they got out of it have been taken. I'm not saying, and I'm not pointing my finger to anyone that it's guilty of being in that state, and I'm not politicizing it, but it's a fact. That was and that's a fact we can't argue about, Serbia was ahead of bankruptcy. Serbia is stable today. Serbia had a public debt that was in the phase of seriously jeopardising liquid liquidity and all of our other economics, to say flows, today it is at 51% and so on and so on in all elements. People used to make rebalancing to cut certain payments through these rebalances, because they're smaller revenues. This is the first time that this government is doing budget rebalances and it does it because it has higher incomes and because it wants those results to share with citizens and that's why it's growing and paying, and that's why it goes to support pensioners, and that's something that I think we should all think is positive, because I repeat it's the country we live in. Are we satisfied? Believe me, neither did you nor I. Can we do more, can we do better? Absolutely, yes. Should we all work together? I absolutely believe that we will all work together to make Serbia a better place to live and, of course, in this fight, everyone should contribute. The government will work hard, the president will be a locomotive, parliament must be one of the key places where we will also create a political and economic environment for Serbia to progress. I thank the ruling majority once again, first and foremost, for the great patience and great support it gives the government, but I also thank the opposition for the criticism that is indeed very, very high-quality and productive. Of course, sometimes it's politicized, but it's part of our political life. Don't blame the squirrels on the media because some times they misrepresent the debate from parliament. Well, sometimes we don't understand each other, most of the time it's hard to understand and we don't understand each other, so they can take it wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61912	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Right on the line, the People's Messenger, the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61913	The problem is that these media are quoting the minister, not quoting the MP, and that's why there's a mix-up. As far as the locomotive is concerned, it may move faster once you've built the railroad you promise. But, Minister, you say it's not the opposition's job to praise the government, so it's not, but the opposition's job is to point to failures in the work of the government, but as Serbian radicals do and to say what's good. We have never done this to you or to anyone, especially to this government that we think is good at keeping in touch with the Russian Federation, not enough in our opinion, we think we should interrupt the EU's path and seek integration in the Euro-Asian countries, with Russia primarily at the helm. These are different concepts of state leadership. When we're in power, we'll do it for sure. Minister, you're saying we don't argue about 30,022 dinars of minimum profit. We're not arguing, and we can't, so we're not silly to say, it's not good that you're up 3,000. It is 30,000 more than 27,000, but in the meantime, it's costing a lot of money, Minister. The expensive bread, the expensive bit of electricity, the one for maintenance, gas, toll, the expensive goods of broad consumption, I also spoke to Minister Sinisha Malo, the expensive meat of pigs, the meat of June. So, I said, there won't be any special increase in consumption, at least not in some other segments, it'll be spent on what it is now, because there's nothing more for that amount. When it comes to public debt, the number of employees, the average salary, and so on, ministers, the Department of Statistics, and we all know that, has changed the methodology and that's why we have this brilliant data. They say good economic experts are asking Minister Cynthia Malio to give us the data, not the data they want, to give us the right data, so we will calculate the average earnings and the number of employees and public debt and price growth, so all of Serbia will be surprised how far your official data is from the real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61914	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law, in principle and in particular, and in general. Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I now set a break of up to 14 hours and 50 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-07-0.u61915	Ladies and gentlemen, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for the vacant parliamentary seats, in order to allow its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the MP's mandate to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that they had obtained the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP with a proposal for the National Assembly to be a member of Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Nevenka Kostadinovo, elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Vukic - Serbia wins. On the basis of the decision of the RIK Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). By confirming the mandate of MP Nevenka Kostadinov. I congratulate the MPs on the election, and I ask that they prepare to take an oath. Dear Members, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly repeats with me the oath I will read. I swear that I will carry out the duty of the MP of the People's Parliament in a committed, fair, safe and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties, and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice for the best of all. Congratulations. Please send a letter to sign the text of the oath. On behalf of the National Assembly and on my personal behalf, I congratulate you on the election of the MP and wish you successful work in the current, term of office. We'll wait for the letter to be sworn in. Thank you, you can take your place. Dear Members, since we have completed the debate on the 1, 2nd and 3rd agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure, according to which the President of the Assembly can determine that the day for the vote on a bill should be immediately after the finalisation of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I determine Monday 7 October 2019, starting at 15.00 hours, as a day for voting on 1, 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert your identification cards to check the voting quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly is most of the votes of all the MPs, the bill of law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to article 1 with a correction. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Miladin Ševarlic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Marijan Risticevic to Article 1. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the Ruzica Nikolic amendment to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Alexander Seselj to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Miladin Sevarlic to Article 7th Section 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to article 7th division 54, with a correction. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am voting on Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote on article 10. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to Article 12. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the Verice Radete amendment to article 12 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Having concluded our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the Amendment Bill and the Supplements of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BUDGETS SYSTEM I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Nomanje Sarovic on article 1 with a correction. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Marijan Risticevic to Article 3. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote of the amendments, Aleksandra Belačić, on Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the Verica Radete amendment to article 4 with a correction. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by the people of Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for seven MPs. The amendment was not accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing the Tax Code to add value I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 135, against – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – eight. No amendment has been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: for -8. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 136, against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
