ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64615	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. I find that we have 65 MPs, and in the hall we have many more, so to determine the number of present in the hall please, MP Obradovic, insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda. Let's welcome the representative of the government, the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Nedimovic, who is with us today, and we move on to the debate. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić and MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who is not with us today. On behalf of Head II, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who is also not with us. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by Ambassador Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 8th Amendment together. The word is George Komlenski, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64616	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the important reason for this amendment is that on 1 January 2020, it will be exactly 10 years since judges for violations received the status of judges in the Republic of Serbia, but their salaries are not equal with other colleagues who judge in regular or other special courts. The objective of this amendment is not to prevent the budget from adopting such a law and to pay judges, or judges who judge criminal matter, to pay equally with their colleagues as they were due in 2010. Namely, the amount needed to make this possible is an amount that is four times smaller than the difference that only the Belgrade Criminal Court puts into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, there are places, reasons and needs for the adoption of such an amendment, because the Belgrade Criminal Court, in the name of fines and charges, has brought a billion 222 million into the Republic of Serbia's budget. The salaries of all the employees in that court, but only in that court, and where the other courts that judge criminal matter, are 465 million. So the 800 million dinar circus in 2018 between salaries and fines charged was provided by the Belgrade Criminal Court. To equalise all judges in the Republic of Serbia's salaries with their colleagues, 210 million is necessary. For this reason, we have submitted this amendment, believing that this one serious injustice can be corrected in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64617	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is Ljubisa Stojmirović. There's no time, I'm sorry. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: I have time. I know you have time, but technically. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Momo Colaković. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64618	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Minister Nedimovic and his associate, the honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 of the Law, which speaks of funds for the Minister without portfolios, Mr Krkobic, and related to the security of resolution funds...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64619	Ambassador, please just, you've covered the microphone with paper and the minister can't hear you, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64620	Thank you very much. The amendment refers to the funds regulated for the development of the village and the resolution of the cooperative problem. The part of the business within the government of the Republic of Serbia is done by Minister Krkobic. In that regard, I thought and felt that these jobs were very important to our country and needed more resources. However, since this amendment has been initiated by the government and the government has submitted an amendment to the same member, which is more favourable than the amendments I have submitted. It foresees more funds than I have suggested and therefore I accept the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I support it. Dear President, since everyone has spoken widely, with a broader aspect of the budget, and not just in particular, let me say something about it, too. By our estimate, my personal, budget law is very good, budget law is developmental and it's commendable. I also have to notice that the law with great social characteristics is also very good. We have to ensure, if we have created conditions in the previous, that our citizens live better, especially this applies to a significant number of pensioners, I spoke about it at the last meeting. I wouldn't repeat that data, but in any case, I support this draft budget. Another thing I wanted to say, we have achieved, by my assessment, the best results for the 2014 reforms. I'll just mention two things. It's that at about 48% of the budget's contribution to pensions, we've reduced it to below 27% at this point, with a tendency to fall further, which is very positive and good. The second data that speaks of this, it is the data that pensions in the GDP below 11%, it is now at 10.2%, also with a tendency to further decline, which is positive and good. In that sense, a lot of stories have been here these few days about, as I say, pensioners, not pensioners, as others say. As a result, I believe that special attention should be paid to those pensioners who are in a difficult material situation, which is about a million and fifty thousand. These are those whose pensions have not been reduced in 2014. I also want to highlight the need for activities and concerns of local self-government about pensioners who are in such a situation. I'll give you an example of the New Sad. In Novi Sad, provided activities that provide a variety of pensioners in various ways to burn one-and-a-half pensions in one-and-a-half years, agreements with 48 companies that provide certain benefits and benefits for pensioners. In this sense, coalitions within Novi Sad, headed by Mayor Milos Vučević, ensured that we take special care of the old people and especially 10,5,000 pensioners living in such a situation at the level of the city community. In particular, I think it should also be said to provide significant resources. In the last few years over a hundred million dinars to provide conditions for socializing and meeting pensioners in pension homes, in daily centres. It was also provided thanks to the mayor of Novi Sad Milos Vukevic. In this regard, honourable New Sad MPs Jasmina Obradovic, Zarko Micin and others can confirm what is being done. Personally, I think that in other local self-governments, it also needs to be provided and thus to increase care for old people to a higher level. I believe that a single policy is at the level of state and local and state level, and that is why we will pay greater attention to those who need it now. Finally, I would like to say that, for these reasons, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this budget in the voting day. Dear Ambassador Borisav Kovacevic spoke about the case of Sinisha Mali. We confirm and support this and in particular express that support to the President of the Republic, regarding this issue, Alexander Vukic, at the position he has expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64621	Thank you. On Article 8th of the amendment was tabled by an MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64622	In my proposal for this amendment, I have used, from the position of the Ministry of Defence, that the part relating to the purchase of machinery and equipment has been reduced, i.e. I propose that about 4.5 billion dinars be removed and transferred to other positions that I think are far more significant and important for this country, and that is, I will now specify in which order I consider that all positions should be added to the funds. First of all, what concerns the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, is the part that refers to the construction of the road of the First B Order of Novi Sad-Ruma, so-called. The French corridor that we have mentioned here several times, which, unfortunately, is intended for only 200 million dinars in the position of the Ministry of Transport. The other day when I mentioned it in principle, I received a reply from the finance minister that I did not see the budget well and that I should look at the position relating to the borrowing plans. There are 500m euros in that position, something we may not be able to borrow from different international institutions until next year. But it's something that's a plan and it's just supposed to be agreed and come to ratification in the Assembly as a loan that we're going to raise for these purposes, and he's actually here, as an existing asset, not existing. I was, of course, looking at the budget of what it was, and that's meant to be, the 200 million dinars, just to finish the paperwork. We have heard something similar every year since 2016, plans related to this corridor, and unfortunately on the map that I have shown and I want to show it, and now I want to show it, there is no such plan for the territory of Vojvodina, or the surface of Vojvodina is completely white, except for Kuzmin-Sremska Raca and this time mentioned Ruma-Loznica. Practically north of Ruma, there is no road planned or road that is built except for the existing highway Novi Sad – Subotica and of course this old highway towards Zagreb. That is why I felt that this position should be strengthened and that it should finally go into an expropriation that was announced even for last year's budget, i.e. this year's budget, and none of it was. Which means that this time is definitely not a priority and that practically with such small means from year to year some kind of fire that should not be extinguished. So I felt that this position needed to be strengthened and more operationally worked out. Then I suggested that, in the department for the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, the budget fund for water management should be strengthened, because I believe that those funds that are at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture for this fund, which is about three billion and 900 thousand if I remember correctly. I felt it should be strengthened when it comes to transfer at other levels of government, and again I felt that some of the funds should be given, given that the water sector in Serbia is in a worrying state. Since we also have a problem with drinking water, first of all in Vojvodina, then we have a problem with waste water, and there it appears in this position of planned borrowing funds intended for wastewater treatment plants. It's something that's like that, let's say, in the air that is operating practically not active at this point, and what might happen if it's next year. That's why I thought it was necessary to strengthen and move things when it comes to the water sector. If we know that some of the analyses have shown that it takes about five billion for the wastewater area alone, the figure changes in the analysis, with such a rate of investment, I don't know if we'll be able to reach the level of developed countries, and at the end of the line, the level of countries in the region that pay much more attention to this area. Then, the following funds that I felt was necessary to separate from this sum, and they concern the Ministry of Environment Protection, and above all for the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, and I also stressed in principle the extent to which the area of environmental protection in this budget was underestimated. Only 7.9 billion dinars are meant for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and when you look at it relative to the total budget, that's 0.6%, slightly less than 0.6%. It's so small a means that it really shows that we have no good will, no intention, or it's ignorance, or it's a lack of understanding to separate more significant funds for this position. That's why I thought the Green Fund needed to be strengthened. I'd like to remind myself that somewhere around 12 billion dinars are collected annually as an eco tax. According to the Environmental Protection Act, polluters are obliged to pay an eco tax. However, only 4.3 billion in this year are the environmental budget. What about the other funds? What are the other funds being spent on? Unfortunately, this fund is still a budget fund, and it is not an independent institution, as it is, for example, in some other countries, such as in the Czech Republic, where there is a fund to protect the environment and water, a completely independent institution, and where only projects in the field of environmental protection are financed, i.e., it is so-called. Green dinar. It's not here, it's a budget fund, and we don't know where the funds are spent outside of the 4.3 billion for the green fund. Then I suggested that some of these funds be spent on the reuse of waste. Here, just today, a conference on the circulatory economy is being held, that is, on the use of waste as a re-surgery. It is a trend that has also been defined in the objectives of sustainable development. We are signatories to these goals of sustainable development. So, we declare ourselves to everything that is the liquids of all other countries and what is the trend in the world, and then in practice, when we come out with this kind of budget proposal, we show that we don't really understand anything or we're to that extent, so let's use that word, rudely that we won't respect what we signed and what we've confirmed through different conventions. So I think that we should behave in the right way and separate significantly higher resources when it comes to waste management, when it comes to the circular economy, or we should also go into practice to apply what we have signed. Furthermore, I have proposed funds for the rehabilitation and closure of non-sanitary dumps and certain funds for transfers to other levels of government, because local self-government has a problem with wild dumps. Here, I come from New Sad every day, we're all witnesses and we can't close our eyes to it, that we have a problem with wild dumps, smaller, bigger, with messy official sanitary dumps that aren't really. Here's just an example of the New Sad, which has a huge dump along the highway itself, which, Malten, takes the situation of a hill, where nothing on this issue is still being solved. It's the same case when it comes to wastewater. There's nothing going on in Novi Sad, so far there's only one pump station that's going to stop at least a pier, an exclusive walk in Novi Sad, from smelling the septic pit. It's just going to be some kind of opening phase in building some future facility that maybe some other generations will come after us after all. That's why I've suggested that other levels of government be done to edit these sanitary dumps and take action. Also, software activity - realising projects to build a waste management system, the same transfers to lower levels of government, it is precisely to edit dumps, to finally start with the serious construction of regional dumps, to stop with these dumps that are in some habit or I don't know by which rule they make along roads and highways. Also, Ruma, for example, has a dump that literally leans on a regional road, or a wild dump near Nova Paza, which since 2014, we've been following her and my colleagues in a joke say - Nadia dump, because I've been asking on two occasions what's going on with that dump, because it's growing more and more, along the highway. What kind of image do we make of ourselves for all those who pass by, tourists or anyone else who comes into this country? It was simply my wish to move from a dead end with this redistribution and to make this small amount of funding that this budget provided for these purposes, however, better. Well, that was my intention, and that's why I proposed this amendment. Unfortunately, I received an answer from the government of the Republic of Serbia that it cannot, none of what I have suggested to adopt, because this will lead to the planned funds for the implementation of earlier conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of the purchase of equipment and weapons and that it cannot. I'm really wondering which way we're going, if we're going to single out this kind of means for the purposes of equipment in military structures, and we're not going to take care of something that is vital and important to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64623	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64624	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I would like to say a few things about this amendment, purely for the public. There's always trying to make a replacement for thesis to buy missiles and not buy anti-building protection, that someone wants to buy military equipment and doesn't want to deal with the environment, or, at best, that they don't want to build a highway. If you've got more highways done in one period than you do now, I'm taking off my hat. You cannot deny it, in Serbia, in the Republic of Serbia. This is not the National Assembly of a local community, some local self-government or something, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We must take care of projects throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You're absolutely right when you say we need a new Sad-Roma highway. And therefore, in the draft budget law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined the funds necessary for the construction of Article 3. It's as simple as beans. Project documentation is being done, more expropriations need to be completed, financial details of the contract with the contractor and moving. You have several highways now located in the area around us, around Belgrade, at the end of the line in Vojvodina. You have the part that you mentioned, that's Sremska Ratca - Kuzmin. You've got the part about Ruma - the Hatter. So, where does he go? I don't know what space it's going through. You must know that. Let's get back to one other thing. Let's go back to environmental pollution, the fact is that it's necessary to put resources into it. But be careful, before dawn it can't dawn. I haven't seen anyone build a new Sad-Rum highway in the last 20 years, and now it's done. I didn't see anyone trying to single out 500m euros to regulate the water supply system in the Vojvodina area. Let me inform you that two months ago there was a meeting of the finance minister, the Prime Minister and all 45 mayors in local self-government to prepare projects for 2020 to build a water supply system and sewage systems and waste water purifiers. That is why there is, among other things, this budget, since I see that you have focused on one part of Serbia. Let's take it one step further. I don't think I have any right to talk about this ministry. I was a minister there for nine months. Now the 7.9 billion budget, one three times bigger than when I was a minister, and one ten times bigger than it was before. This part about the Green Fund's status, I might agree with you that it must have some institutional character, that it's not just like one financial line, one as a budget classification. But it's a matter of thinking, it's a matter of political decision as to how you want to manage those funds. So, I think absolutely what the government has put into account is valid, because there is money for both of us and for the third and fourth needs. Please, don't change those thesis, say – it's taken here, it's not given for this. It just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64625	Thank you. The People's MP, Nada Lazic, wants a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64626	As for the Frushkogorski Corridor, I will remind you that due to the construction of the railway line, the rapid railway for Budapest, Novi Sad and part of Vojvodina were literally cut off by 2022. If building the Fruscogorian Corridor wasn't a priority, I don't know what else would be a priority. Now all of a sudden it turns out to be Rum – Loznica – Šabac's priority. I see in the explanation that the citizens of Platicov, Krtkovci, etc. to have greater passability and so on. With all of this I can agree, but the citizens of Iriga are suffering such heavy traffic through the village itself, that the houses are collapsing. When a while ago my colleague mentioned that people were killed, then she only got caught up in that statement - people were killed. Fortunately, I guess by this point no one has died, but such a traffic going through the Fruska Mountain National Park, if it's not a priority for the next year, and it's not a priority. What you're saying is, these are just intentions, just like you're saying that the intention to build a wastewater treatment plant is to see if it's going to be realized in the coming year, because it's about some over nine billion euros in borrowing that's supposed to be boarded here in this institution. So don't tell me something that's real. At this point in the Frusch Mountain, we don't see any aces, no workers doing anything, but we see a huge transport, a heavy transport going on towards Bosnia. The impression is that all these hubs and these roads are being built in service of Belgrade. Here, it's said to be planning a fast road, a highway to Zrenjanin, a highway to Vrsec. So we don't have any dates between, say, Kickinde and Somboro or, I don't know, between Zrenjanin and Somboro, and on this map that I've shown, where Vojvodina's white surface, when it comes to the planned roads, it's not seen for the budget for next year, what you're saying. As for the Green Fund, as regards these funds and that progress, as you say at a time when you were Minister and so far, you know, a high percentage of the small value is still a small value. If you look, let's say, for the purposes of the IT sector, I don't blame it, I say, it's about 60 percent increased compared to separations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64627	It's replica time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64628	I'm sorry, I don't know if I have time for any more parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64629	No, you were looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64630	Nothing, then so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64631	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64632	The Honorable President, honourable MPs, just for the sake of the public. Please show this. This is the draft budget law. You have exactly where it says – The project of building fast traffic stations Novi Sad – Ruma – Šabac, with numbers. As far as I know, if there's a vote tomorrow and this is passed, it's the law, not some future uncertain circumstance that you're talking about, what if it were. Before dawn, you're right, it can't dawn, but now it's dawn for this highway. And ask those 20 years ago why they didn't even project it, they just signed some memos with China. I don't want to talk like that. There's one other thing. In the announcement is the design of highways, i.e. fast cars that will go Sombor – Vrbas – Kikinda, to connect that part, if you follow closely. There have never been this many highways and fast traffic, and someone thinks there is a future uncertainty in Article 3, I ask you to press tomorrow, vote yes, and then there is a certain circumstance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64633	The word is from Ambassador Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64634	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, let's get out of propaganda, stick to the profession. So, it's a good thing the budget provides funds for the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor as part of the shares of Novi Sad, via Ruma, Šapac, to Loznica. It's better than not to stand, as was the case in previous years. But to be completely honest with the citizens and give precise information and accurate information. What is foreseen by the budget for the construction of this stock is seen at budget expenditures, and that is only 200 million dinars in 2020. I'll fill in the information. The credits that are scheduled, these are the loans that are foreseen, it is not the money that was planned to be spent on the construction of this share in 2020. The consumption in 2020 is projected at the expenditures of 200 million dinars. The loans foreseen for 2020 and beyond, and we don't know until when, are billions of euros for this share. You have three loans in your budget. A billion euros per share of 130km is over seven, nearly 7.5m euros per km. You have Azerbaijani credit, 250m euros; you have Chinese credit, 550m euros and you have foreign investment corporations, funds and banks, 200m euros. That's a billion euros, but it's not spending for 2020, for this share. These are loans that will cost 200 million dinars, whether from that loan or from other sources for this stock next year. Two hundred million dinars are not enough to seriously even start working on that stock. So there's no point here in whether or not there is. There is, but the point is, as you said seven years ago, faster, stronger and better, because it's better possible. Had investments in military and police equipment been a 50% reduction last year, the military and police would have again been the largest budget winner in those investments, more than a year earlier, but would have freed 30 to 40 billion dinars for other policies, social ones. To return the money to the pensioners who were taken, for example, through a reduction of four years. That our mothers and families don't get messages from banks that they've been paid 850 or 2,500 dinars a month. At the very end of the line, this stock starts to work more seriously. We will certainly support credit obligations, provided that the texts of the special laws are acceptable. Because we think these stocks are necessary, but let's not talk about spending a billion euros on building that stock in 2020, because that's not going to happen. At your expense, you predicted 200 million dinars in 2020. A billion euros are next year's loans and we'll see when and how. Remember how many years we've waited for the start of the Moravia Corridor. So let's release the propaganda and let's not compromise on principle -- I guess you believe in my words more than your own eyes. You're a Sremac, you're being rotated, probably driving in a column that carries freight international traffic through the heart of the National Park of Fruška gora for decades, when you're on the road to Ruma – Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64635	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64636	Because that's what you want to do, to deal with facts, let's get to the facts. If it wasn't, what would the children say - S.B.B.K.B.B., what would happen if it were. I don't have rotations or darkened glass. Go outside, take a look, and talk facts. Those cheap demagogy and propaganda, leave it somewhere else. I am grateful to you that you are taking part in the budget debate, because it is one of the most important things, the most important laws of this House. That's very nice of you to do and I'm grateful to anyone who does their job for it. As for this, please, that saying that, I don't know what's going to happen either, as you said, I can't even quote. We end things. Project documentation is over here, the rest is to finish the expropriation. Since I live in that space, there are construction machines there that prepare nodes that will serve later activities on that road in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64637	Thank you. A Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Chabrai. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64638	I can also use time for amendments. May I?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64639	Yeah, it's time for the amendments, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64640	First of all, I would like to comment that the draft budget should be discussed after considering the final accounts for the previous years, because then we would have arguments that the funds were being spent and that the budget proposal was being discussed better. Secondly, I'm not going to get an answer today for the questions I've been asking in the previous sessions. What are the 100 largest taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia? Do they use incentives from the budget, or are suppliers and contractors of certain business on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as partners of the state? Thirdly, I don't understand why the promise made by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Education, will provide the Faculty of Agriculture with nearly 1,000 hectares of land allocated to them in 1950, for the school's sake, for war and livestock production, and until today, it's a college that celebrated 100 years of work and development? Next, I am not responsible for the question whether a readmission agreement has been signed for migrants from EU countries, which are inappropriate for them, and have been registered for the first time in Serbia? How much of the costs of migrants are contained in the 2020 budget? Then, I don't understand why such minor funds are provided for in the position of protecting and using agricultural land, only 32 million dinars, and that's 60% of what this budget singles out for a musical event that's not exactly in the spirit of our national image, which is 50 million dinars. With 32 million dinars divided into 3.5 hectares, you get 9.14 dinars per hectare. With that money, I believe that even in a Chinese store you can't buy a cleaner, for a hooch, for a fool, for a hack, if you want to do hand-to-hand work on protecting and using agricultural land. Essentially, my objection to the draft budget is that the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act provides that funds for an incentive in agriculture and rural development should amount to 5% of the total tax revenue. As tax revenues are estimated at 1.132,100,000 dinars, 5% of the amount planned should be 56,605,000 dinars. Instead, subsidies in agriculture and rural development are foreseen by the same budget proposal at 46,588,753,000 dinars, which is less by 16,016,247,000 or 28.3%, at the same time less for about 3,200,000 dinars than for the 2009 budget. Finally, as the end of time is coming to an end, I have reviewed the seized subsidies to farmers and villages, meaning for agriculture and rural development in the seven-year period that is common in the EU, from 2014 to 2020, it amounts to over 90,000,000 dinars and bearing in mind this principle that 5% of tax revenues are minimum reserved, or should be provided for agriculture and rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64641	Thank you. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64642	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I start with this last most painful topic, 5% stories for subsidies in agriculture, I have to show the chart, the 2020 funding from the national budget is the funds that will be realised through the IPARD. Eight years we've been told there's no IPARD, they're 5.2% plus this amendment that's been through, I think it was a committee amendment, or from MPs, I can't remember, with 720 million dinars. So you have to add a little bit better, so it'll come out right. If necessary, I will help you with that, and my ministry is at your disposal for any information regarding the subsidy. The fact that subsidies have increased by almost 45% the amount of money for agricultural subsidies over the last three years. I think we can all agree on that. As for the use and protection of agricultural land, you cannot safely deny the matter of doing land irrigation, only in a second position, to do the protection of agricultural land system of automatic anti-building cells. Now we're going to do a major 50m-euro project to co-operate and regulate relations on agricultural land. To go back to those 1,000 acres for the Faculty of Agriculture. The city of Belgrade, as located on the territory of the City of Belgrade, is now changing it, changing it, correcting it on the basis of a proposal from the Agriculture Land Administration and those matters concerning the Agricultural Faculty based on their demands. You can't be looking for something that doesn't want a Faculty of Agriculture. If they say we will, period. Like any other college that gets, like any other institution that gets agricultural land, whether it's agricultural professional service, social protection institutions, institutes that get onto multi-year agricultural land leases. For the first time, we now have long-term land leases. It's been a year, isn't it, Professor? I think so. And consider this, as far as the Faculty of Agriculture is concerned, that we'll be forced out into the open.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64643	He's got a word for it, Professor. Shevarlic, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64644	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask for information on the obligations that farmers owe on the basis of pension, disability and health insurance, which have reached about two billion euros or 200 billion dinars available to them. This amount is extremely large and practically represents a debt slavery of farmers in this country, which even if you took away their entire assets from those small agricultural holdings, the state could not compensate, would only create an army of Lumpenproletarians in this country or potential immigrants from this country to other areas. But I can't agree with the finding that the amount envisaged to encourage rural development in agriculture is greater than prescribed by the Rural Development Incentives Act. I would like your experts to ask me, and at every session of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, I have asked the State Secretary present from the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance how much 5% should be required under the provisions of the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, they never wanted to respond. I'm sure they know how to multiply total tax revenues by 5% and say that amount, but they're not going to say it on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64645	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go, Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64646	Madam President, honourable MPs, I have to show this to the public again. This is your year 2020, which clearly shows that the national budget asset... Well, I don't know the professors you have the charts on, but I have the charts from the Ministry. I guess I should know something in that whole story. But it seems that some maths one and two maths disagree. There's money for that. To get back to a thing that cares a lot about farmers, which concerns agricultural pensions, or debts for contributions to PIO and health insurance. I don't want to limit the numbers, but it's over, surely, 240 million euros, billions of dinars already, how much is it for both health and pension. Together with the Ministry of Labour, the World Bank and I are currently working on a project to address this problem that will take a few steps to resolve debts... Don't scare the people, no one will take anyone, let the farmers not worry about it. On the other hand, you're absolutely right, they don't have the economic power to pay for it at all, because someone who came up with a law like this in 1986, and then changed it, where a man who has a hectare and has a hundred hectares of pay the same contributions, so I didn't see it anywhere. Did anyone come up with that from 1986 to 2008, 2009? That's how all these debts came to be, just sticking to each other. We are now preparing a package that will solve the whole problem and in terms of health insurance, which is a fact, health care has not even happened. You've got to work it out. How can someone pay for something they never made? On the other hand, let's regulate retirement. How are you going to connect people, to put it this way, conditionally your internship or not, and how are we going to deal with farmers' economic strength from that moment forward? That solution will be in front of this House in the near future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64647	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go. Ambassador Kovacevic waits 45 minutes to come to order and has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64648	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister and your associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I wanted to say a word, continuing what my esteemed colleague Momo Colakovic was saying, but the circumstances technically skipped him. Here's what I'd like to say. Mr Minister, I think that in recent years, especially since 2014, when an existing, valid Agriculture and Rural Development Strategy for the period from 2014 to 2024, you can certainly better assess whether I am right, but it seems to me that in that period somehow, when it comes to, first and foremost, the Government and the President of the State, more than previously gives attention to the agricultural sector, which is one of the most important resources this country has and which as such can contribute to the planned accelerated development of the country as a whole. That's why I welcome the government's attitude and behavior. However, although this Budget Law shows that the strategy for agriculture and rural development was not forgotten, it was in mind, and this also shows what Mr. Colakovic stated, the initiative to increase the item by 200 million, that the government increased that by 300 million. I think that these are good things, but I also think that we should think, I don't know if you are, and I don't wait for the end of the period for which the Agriculture Strategy was made, that it should be before that deadline, or now think about its innovation because it's not the same situation five years ago and now when it comes to the country's internal situation and the country's development and, more importantly, it's not the same situation compared to five years ago, when the security side is in which the country is now unlike five years ago. Why am I saying this? We in the development of agriculture, especially in rural development, have made major steps, especially in the form of cooperative development, which is also spoken of through Mr Colaković's amendment, etc. When we touch the security aspect, we have a situation that the country's border belt is a vastly rural area. We have few urban environments in that belt, etc. In such a situation, it is very easy for me to use the term conditionally, not purely militaryly, on the outside to attack the suburban parts of this country and therefore our people living in the border belt, and in the present very bad conditions, or so far, under such pressures, easily and most likely to pull back into the interior of the country. We will be left with a border belt unprotected in the sense that the territory is not protected unless it is possessed alive. So I think that this direction, in this sense, is very important and very important to me, and also through the budget itself, that the government is very present, just because I think it should, I hope that this will otherwise be continuity, but that we should pay even more attention and go faster, because the situation of security is still complicated and on the outside and see what the infactor is doing, which all moves are making etc. etc. That's why I think it's good to focus on this problem, because we need to take care of the country's safety. I'll talk about it wider, because, as you know, a defence strategy and a national security strategy have been prepared. They'll be here in the Assembly soon, so I'll talk about it wider. I'd stop here this time. What I was about to say, Mr. Minister, is that we're developing, I didn't even see it in the Strategy, that aspect of the specialization of agricultural production depending on the conditions in certain regions and territories. I don't see any significant developments in, say, vegetables. In that case, I mention, let's say, as I said to the Sword, the area of the Sword. You've got a field where the land is the highest-class, grainy land. You have a whole sword on warm water, you have the largest two rivers that limit the Sword. 40 years ago, if anyone remembers, the French asked us to give them concessions on the Sword when it was first established to lie on warm water. Why? Because natural heating can be done, you have natural irrigation, you have the highest quality land and you can have, instead of grains where you once a year collect fruits, year-round harvesting of fruits, exports and others. Another thing I think is that in the context of agriculture, to which I should throw the total, I will end up, a significant effort, to improve not only primary but also secondary production in agriculture. This means that we are not producing and sending to the market the naked fruits of agriculture, but to reprocess them, so that we can place that product on the market. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64649	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Now the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Professor Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64650	Thank you. Yesterday, Madam President of the Assembly, seven, eight times, led the controversy with a colleague on the other hand. Then it could have been more than one replica. I don't see any reason why he can't today. If the three of us sitting on this right, as opposition MPs, can't get a replica, I don't count on the SRS, because they always give you replicas. Nemanja Sarovic: But the one is security. No, no, no, I'm talking, don't take my time. So, I don't think that's correct. A team before the minister said one thing that no one is doing anything for those who have unmistakable obligations based on pension, disability and health insurance. Your friend and my friend, the editor of the village newspaper, after the death of his father, had to pay three hundred and a few thousand dinars in order to finish the desert debate. The mass of farmers who turned 65 when they received a pension solution, the branch director asked to sign to take one-third of his pension, on behalf of the debt. So it's not true that it doesn't work. It's working. Check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64651	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. You were just looking for and talking about my injury to the Rules of Procedure, (Miladin Ševarlic: Not yours, but the injury of the president, who did not allow... All right, chairman. So, you know yourself, you have to do a direct injury to the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand, respect the principle that you don't abuse it, as it is, and you've replicated it again, but good. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yes, you do. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64652	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 103, 106, 107. Now I ask you, firstly, Mr. Chairman, what will the Assembly say about? The previous speaker failed to list a member of the Rules of Procedure to whom he had called and who had advertised. Now I'm asking you, what are we going to say? I agree that each chairman has his own tactics, but every MP has his own tactics. Well, let's just say, if Mr. Chevarlic had come in a folk costume, you might have had a discount, as he was yesterday. So when he puts on a folk costume, he has the right to more replicas than he does when he's gone. I'd like to see a picture of him before 2016, until he became an MP, see where he put his folk costume on. Let's see a photo, etc. This is where he complained about pensions. The peasant pension is less than social aid, but our peasants need to know that peasant pensions are dominating by 80%. Because of the debts incurred at the time when he received 600 rural pensions from the start of the projects for the Old Mountain cattle restoration project, for some study on cooperatives, which was never printed, printed, the minister knows, we kept looking for it by the Ministry of Agriculture and we found no copy of those thousands. Even if he had done these thousands of copies, it would have been the most expensive piece of Mr. Sevarlic, more expensive than Andric and Cosic, because every copy of that study on co-operation would have cost 60 and a few euros. Unfortunately, it wasn't, but 600 peasant pensions were spent. And that's why pensions may be far less than they would have been. But the truth is, because of the laws they had created, the debt of two billion for PIO and social security, because all the members of the peasant household had to, regardless of the country's surface, they had to pay mandatory PIO insurance for farmers, and we changed that in 2013 after the change. If it hadn't been for their crazy law, pensions would have been bigger today and budget donations would have been less. And, to repeat, peasant pensions should be bigger, debts should be regulated, all their problems should be solved, but they have no right to complain to us as quickly as possible not to solve the problems they've left for 100 years. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64653	Thank you. You're not asking the National Assembly to come forward in voting day. Thank you. Professor Chevarlich, on what grounds are you answering? Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. ) You do not have the right to report for a advertised breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. He mentioned me by name. But you don't have, I just don't have an option, I don't have the right to give you a replica. If I do, I've opened Pandora's box. You can answer it on some other basis, go ahead, I don't mind. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64654	Mr. Chairman, let me use my two minutes and tell the farmers. Those who object to their budget, agriculturals, usually let me make a little more money. I must say, Prime Minister, now the President of the Republic and the current Prime Minister and Minister, they were all favored. So, little by little, the subsidies in 2012 were 19 billion and 950 million, remember. Same course, same country. The course was 117 dinars coma something. The subsidies for agriculture, which they planned, amounted to 19 billion and 900 million and some million, which was about 165m euros. Today, incentives, along with the amendment of counterpart Martinovic, are 41 comas of some billion or 350m euros. And now we are objecting to those who have set aside 165m euros, and in doing so, their pocket has always been, for cattle farming on the Old Mountain, and then consulting services, and then millions, planes, trucks and highways that have been built exclusively in their pockets, and not according to the needs of citizens. That highway was poured into state money, etc. Now we are objecting to those who have allocated 165m euros for subsidies, to us who allocate 350m euros annually for subsidies. And let me tell the farmers in these two minutes that the deal with both the ministry and the government is projected on the basis of the needs and the resources spent in one year, so it's a little bit added. If more money is needed, all requests submitted for incentives in agriculture, direct payments, rural development, etc. will be respected at the price and this paragraph of the Budget Act will be breached. In that case, we're going to do budget rebalances or we're going to pay public debt again. Generally, if more money is needed for agriculture, as God has given for subsidies, if there is more demand, all these requirements will be respected at the cost of breaking this 350m-euro item as well. I'm obliged to tell our farmers that they know and that they can handle all the requirements they think they meet the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64655	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 3rd Amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Dubravko Bojic and the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64656	Since I didn't have a chance to lead the replica before, Mr. Minister was showing some kind of chart, probably with the participation of the agricultural budget, or the means to encourage agriculture and rural development in total tax revenues, claiming it was over 5%. Mr. Minister, here I have your answer, with your signature, from the Ministry of Agriculture where you signed that in 2013 the participation of incentives in agriculture and rural development was 4.37%, in 2014 4.55%, in 2016 2.87%, in 2017 2.96%. If that's not true, say it. If true, I ask you to say how much was it in 2018 and what is it in 2019 and how much should it be now, including these additional billion dinars under the adopted amendment for 2020? Is it 5%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64657	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64658	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I will go very briefly, and only for the sake of the public to show it once more. I'll raise this paper 918 times if I have to. For 2020, the budget is 5.2%, national funds plus IPARD and plus this 720 million amendment. That information you requested and received from the ministry refers to subsidies. It's in the Budget Law -- the Agriculture Budget. You need to distinguish the whole division from what you're saying. They don't have any citizens who are following this and who are very important, and the paws that you have in front of you, not to mention Abu Dhabi, that we're not talking about the NIP that's going to go, how much it's going to be, over 5%. Let me tell you, in 2018, if you're really interested, it was 4.6%, but today it's bigger - 5.3%. What it writes is the amount of the subsidy in 2013, and it is not the same as the subsidies in agriculture, subsidies to farmers. Subsidies in agriculture include much broader and veterinary services and what is obtained through this and what is obtained for land and through a hundred wonders that are going on. Please read more, which we have sent you information and we will send you a supplement, because it is very important for me that every MP be informed of every dinar that is being spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64659	Thank you. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic is entitled to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64660	Thank you very much. So we finally agreed that it was at least one year when the agrarian budget or incentives for agriculture and rural development were not 5%. Now you said that in 2018, if I wrote correctly, it was 4.6%. Incentives in agriculture and rural development are regulated in point 8. - Incentives are the funds provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, etc. It doesn't say anywhere that the incentives are all split up by 23 or 24, depending on what year it's in any way. When there was the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, it was split up by 23, now mostly divided by 24. Therefore, they cannot have the resources objectively necessary for the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, wages and everything else, to enter the incentives for agriculture and rural development. Also, rural development measures envision an amount of 800m dinars for over 4,500 villages. I don't know who needs it anymore, if you'll excuse me for saying "yours", because it's on the territory of your town of Sremska Mitrovica, Lazarka, which represents one of the most populated villages in Serbia with more than 11,000 inhabitants or those who are on the air to survive like villages, but if you divide it by 4,500 villages, those 800 million, it's less than 178 thousand or 1.513 euros. With that amount of one village, like Lagarka, there's nothing practical she can do without talking about some others where it's even harder to do it because of the configuration of the terrain, and solve a number of infrastructure problems. In doing so, I'd like to say something else, it was here for rural development measures, from, say, 2017, three billion 847 million dinars. Which is why in the coming years it's reduced to 800 million, eight billion, excuse me. I'm sorry, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64661	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64662	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. When someone persists with ten explanations won't see the difference between agrarian budget and subsidies, then there's not much help. I believe it's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The Agrarian budget also includes the cost of carrying out subsidies. It also includes veterinary protection. It includes a residual examination, the Institute of Meat Hygiene and Technology, veterinary specialist institutes that operate in the food industry. It also includes phytosanitary protection. It also covers veterinary checks and phytosanitary checks at border crossings. As well as the EU budget, which is 45% of the common European budget, because of the common European agricultural policy, covers the cost of implementing that budget, so our agrarian budget covers all costs and the level of subsidies. In order to avoid deception and violation of dignity, I am obliged to tell our farmers that all requests that are filed will be paid regardless of the level outlined in the draft budget, and when we adopt it, it will be the budget law. If there is more demand than what was last year plus the increase we planned, in that case payments will be made uninterrupted if the requests are applied in a timely manner in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The problem is a little bit about processing demands. In the cost of money, there was no problem this year or the previous year, but the number of officials was somewhat smaller to handle all of their demands, and one agricultural land suffered five, six demands, for example, for cattle, for these heroes, etc. If simple application is made, in that case the payment will be faster because the money was never missing. If we break that item, those demands will be paid and now I'm asking you, we can plan 100 billion... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... and the requirement has 30 billion, so the budget plan must be realistic in line with the opportunities and needs of farmers. If they're bigger, they'll all be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64663	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 9th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic and MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64664	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, in 2018 the threshold so-called For obtaining subsidies from small cattle, figuratively speaking, in sheep, pigs, goats, was a minimum of 10 throats. In 2019, you increased that threshold three times. Such a reproduction is not possible to secure at all from its own trap, and given the number of farmers who had such a small number of throats, ten, it was not possible to secure at the level of the Republic of Serbia from reproduction on other farms, even if other farms had more than 30 throats wanted to sell it all. I ask you, why have you made a decision that is contrary to the interests of the smallest farmers? I guess it's in our best interest to keep them, to allow them to survive in the country? That's one thing. Secondly, why, how much of their participation is, by this basis, a reduction in the number of users in 2019? I spoke to vets in central Serbia's territory. I did not speak in the territory of the Vojvodina. They told me that it was about 20% of the number of registered agricultural holdings that in 2018 had reported more than 10 pig throats, 10 sheep's throats and 10 goats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64665	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64666	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I tell you the truth, I didn't understand this very well, and I tried very hard to absorb every word. I can only ask why, Professor, when you were a lecturer at the Faculty of Agriculture, 17 sixes, 38 weeks, 116 eights, and I don't know what else? (The Belief of Radeta: It doesn't matter.) Well, it doesn't matter how it doesn't matter. I'll give you an answer to this. We have to move forward, we have protected the small by leaving the lower limits in the marginal areas. In these others, we increased from two to three dairy cows. Increase by sheep to 20 now limit, not to 30. In devasted areas 10. In doing so, for the purchase of new sheep, lambs, for the purchase of new bodies intended for later production, we give 50% of the money. Now I ask you nicely - do you know how to add the subsidies that you get based on genetics, you get 50% to buy breeding throats, plus the subsidy you get? In sheep, of those 10 missing you get 7.5 or 8 completely free. Is that right or not? I'm talking about annual stuff, not some stuff in 10 years. I don't know, obviously this ministry is only good for you when it's your personal interest. You obviously don't care about other things, and if there are any more questions on this subject, I'd be happy to show you once again 919 times. These 5.2% of the national budget plus the IPARD, and it says in the 5% budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, not the subsidy budget, and I just don't know this, with all due respect, and I respect the debate and everything, but I don't know what to tell you anymore. I want everything, but just ask me questions, not this 10, three rabbits, six rabbits. I have no idea what's really going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64667	Thank you, Mr. Nedimovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64668	Ladies and gentlemen, don't leave now, Mr. Nedimovic. I've been looking forward to finally having a conversational minister, likes to talk about facts, likes to show off official data. Here, Mr. Nedimovic and I brought it, but Mr. Nedimovic and I hope Mr. Mali will follow the example of his colleague and will finally talk about what he should understand most. According to the Ministry of Finance's data, and that was an amazing piece of information to me, the real value of pensions has been on the lowest branches in the last 20 years. Is that true, Mr. Sinisha Mali? Is it true that the real pension growth rate since 2010 is negative? Is it true, since we can't discuss DS power now, Mr. Sinisa Mali, that if we took 2012 when your regime came to power, if we took it as a basis and took it as 100% of the value and applied these real growth rates as they stand on the Ministry of Pensions website, we're talking about average pensions and averages in the period I'm talking about 2011 in 2012, 2013, 2014 etc. For example, in 2012, the real decline in value was 2.2%, 2013 was a real growth rate of minus 3.5%, i.e. the decline in the real value of pensions was 3.5%. If we took the base of 2012 from 100% and applied to these two negative rates, this would mean that in 2013, the real value of pensions was 97.8% of the base. (President: Thank you. I have time from the parliamentary group. Thank you, too. And in 2014 the value was 94.37%, 2015 followed by the biggest decline – 5.5% and then the pensions came to 87.13% of the real value compared to 2012 and this is the biggest decline recorded in the previous 10 years. We have a growth of 0.1% in 2016, so pensions amounted to 87.22% compared to 2012, so that in 2017, there would be a decline in the real value of pensions of 1.2% and there would be a historical minimum because in 2018 the real value of the average pension in Serbia is 86.17% compared to the base of 2012. That means 13.83% less pensions than in 2012. These are data from the Ministry of Finance that you can find on the Ministry's website. This is true and that's what hurts you the most and that story of yours that pensions have never been in history is a bigger lie. Even on the Ministry of Finance website, real data can be found, and I assume Sinisa Mali knows what the difference between nominal value and the real value that comes from including other impacts such as price increases, inflation and many other things. (President: Thank you, Mr. Sarovic.) ) The most important thing, I end up with, is what is the real value of pensions and real purchasing power, and today this level of pension is practically at the historic minimum and for the last four years they have marked exactly the lowest possible average pensions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64669	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64670	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I have repeatedly responded to your essay on pension levels in the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad you're reading and consulting the Ministry of Finance website. I just want you to come to the conclusions that you come to in one logical way. Anyway, I'm not going to get into a big controversy with you. I know you want to promote yourself and your attitude, which is fine. What is important for Serbian citizens, last year after the pension increase, this year after the payment of 5,000 dinars of one-off aid since January 2020, we are going to apply the Swiss formula and raise pensions by indexing this increase each year, or pensions on the basis of an increase in the average wage and on the basis of the inflation rate in the Republic of Serbia. As of January 1st, we expect a 5.4% pension increase, and you want me to respond to the analysis you made with only one sentence. The analysis you have made should give you one very clear data, which is that pensions from 2014 with an estimated increase in 2020 will be greater than in 2014 between 13.7 and 19.4%. Whatever analysis you do and whatever analysis you do, I respect, it is your mathematics, and what is true, which is important for the citizens of Serbia, with the increase in 2020, with the application of the Swiss formula we will have an increase compared to 2014 depending on the amount of pension between 13.7 and 19.4% and that is true. What's even more important to our oldest citizens is that pensions will only grow. In years that come pensions just grow. We do not do this as the previous government did, from expensive loans, from growing public debt, so that the state leads us to bankruptcy, as they did in 2013, we are doing on the basis of serious, responsible, economic policies. We try to have high growth rates year by year, which is the higher the growth rate of our economy, which is both higher pensions and higher wages. For the third year in a row and wages are increasing. So, honourable MPs, the standard of living is improving, we will have in December over 500 euros in salary, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia, the promise we made. Can you do it faster and better? We can and will. Let's not forget that last year we had a fiscal consolidation process, so we consolidated our public finances. We didn't expect high rates of growth in our economy, but we still have 4.4% growth. Last year 4.7%, in the third quarter of this year, growth will be between 3.7%-3.8% for this year. Therefore, if you take the indexation of pensions through the Swiss formula, which increases pensions based on the growth of the average wages that grow, based on the growth of inflation that is stable, it guarantees for our oldest citizens, stable, safe and ever growing pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64671	Thank you, Mr. Mali. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64672	So, Mr. Mali, as much as you're trying to ramble the truth with empty stories, the facts remain. What you're saying is simply not true and evidence of it is on the Ministry of Finance website. I'm going to read again all the data that says that today's pensions are at a minimum in the last 20 years for how much data is available on the Ministry of Finance website. By 2010, pensions were constantly growing. Since 2012, they have fallen sharply. I could've talked about the earlier period, I've only considered the period since 2012 since you've been in power. So, negative growth, i.e. the decline in the real value of the average pension in Serbia. In 2012, the average pension was 23,024 dinars. Is that true, Mr. Mali? Yes, it is. If I didn't say one thing correctly, for a single dollar, correct me. You're telling an empty story instead. You're saying what you've learned by heart, and what with reality and real indicators has nothing to do with it. In 2012, the decline in real 2.2%, in 2013, the drop in real pensions was 3.5%, in 2014 the decline in the real value of pensions was 2.3%, 2015 the record drop of 5.5%, and that's the fact and that's the truth. So you came to a historic minimum that compared to 2012 the real value and the pension height is 86.17% and that's a fact. That's what the finance ministry site is for. We had one increase in 2016 0.1% and one increase in 2018 3.6%. About what you're talking about, we've given you a one-time aid of 5,000 dinars, return what you owe, return what you didn't get in line with your pensions, return what you've counter-constitutionally reduced the base. That's the point. And it'll be hundreds of thousands of dinars, not 5,000, and it won't be necessary for the pensioners of that church. You are refusing, as finance minister, I have asked a parliamentary question in written form and asked you to respond to the amount of savings for each year when this anti-constitutional law on the temporary payment of pensions for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 has been applied and you refuse to publish that information. You, as minister, refuse to answer the MPs to a question directly related to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64673	Thank you. Right on the replica of Sinisha Mali. Here you go. (Nemnja Sarovic: Allow me as much as he spoke. I can't, I let you, you had three and a half minutes of your colleague Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic: He is three minutes and 40 seconds. I'm really trying to give you equal time and have the same chance. Don't worry, you'll probably get a chance again. Mr. Mali, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64674	Thank you very much. Your Honour, the height of your voice and your aggression does not speak of the strength of your arguments. You don't have to yell here, I hear you. It's fortunate to have these speakers around and everything. I haven't avoided anything for you to answer. I'm telling you the exact data you can also see on the finance ministry site, just need to collect the figures how and what you're going to get the same result that I just told the citizens of Serbia. What is particularly important to me, to point out once again, you forget yourself and you said in the end, that you were looking at the data by 2012, since 2012. And what happened in 2008? How could you not ask yourself why four times the pension increase was based on which our country's public debt increased from eight billion to 17 billion euros? It's because of that irresponsible policy that those who were before us made. You're not aware of that, are you? Then when you ask where the pensions are in 2012, in 2013, we said, "No." He spent Gilas, he took to his private firms, spent these others who were with him, gone. Public debt came to 70 and some percent of GDP. If you do not understand economic policy, if you are not sure or aware of the situation in which Serbia was in 2013, and we were on the verge of bankruptcy and bankruptcy, then I have nothing to explain to you. Were the fiscal consolidation measures difficult? They were heavy and brave. Most of these measures were taken by the oldest citizens. I thanked them last time, I'll thank you now. Don't disrespect that. There's no need. Thank them, of course. Was there any other way? Did you have any other idea in 2013, how would you handle it? Is it? Great, when you win the election, you also present the proposal to the citizens and let them vote for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64675	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has Nemanja Sarovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64676	Mr. Mali, you made another lie, I told you I've been tracking data since 2001, and that's the data available on the Ministry's website. You just said that in 2008, pensions were four times higher. So, real growth then was in 2008, 14.2%, and since 2010. In 2010, it was 5.6%, so in 2011, it was 3.6%, so in 2012, 2.2%, so in 2013, when you say we were on the verge of bankruptcy, pensions were already significantly depreciated. Once again, give me specific information. Your colorful lies don't interest me. The second thing, you, with your thanks to the pensioners, can't achieve any effect. Do you think someone's worked for 40 years and paid off the PIO fund so that some Sinisha Mali would thank him after he took his pension? I didn't hear anything more absurd. Give the money back to the people you kidnapped. You're saying it could have been different? It could have been 1,000 ways. You could have been kidnapped by NGOs, you could have been kidnapped by a lot of other things, but you have no right from pensioners. That's a fact. It's not a retirement category that depends on the goodwill of the regime, so let's say we gave as much as we had. And if it's a temporary way of paying off, it's time for you to pay off temporarily, now's the time to come back. You say it's a golden age now, it's never been a bigger budget. You have a budget that is 5.5 billion more than seven years ago. Is that true? Yes, it is. Well done on such a budget, but give the money back to the citizens of Serbia that you took.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64677	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I have Professor Chevarlich in my system now, but I suppose it's an accident. Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64678	Let's go through those digital phases one more time together. So, the average pension in 2008, I have here under the circumstances of 2008, I may have others, just to see, 4.505.00 dinars, in 2001, 6.134.00 dinars in 2002, 7.390,00 dinars in 20013, 8,705.00 dinars in 2004, 10,568.00 dinars in 2005, 12,151,00 dinars in 2006, 13,612.00 dinars in 2007, 17.639,00 dinars in 2008, 19,788.00 dinars in 2019, 19,890,00 dinars in 2010, 21.285.00 dinars in 2011, 23,024,00 dinars in 2012, 23,947,00 dinars in 2013, 24085.00 dinars in 2014. There is a fall after the fiscal consolidation rate of 23.196.00 dinars in 2015 and then grows to 23.488.00 dinars in 2016, 23.913.00 dinars in 2017, 2018. 25.278.00 dinars and 2019 for the first eight months of 26.343.00 dinars. I really don't know what numbers you're reading. Thank God we have accurate data here. So, from 4,500,00 dinars in 2011, here we are now at 26,343,00 dinars in 2019 without a single aid of 5,000 dinars and we are going to increase from 1 January 2020 to 5.4%.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64679	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Right to replica, or comment on Nemanja Sarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64680	Mr. Minister, you have good information, that's exactly the data I read, so don't pretend to be ignorant. Under this column you've read, there's another one and it says real retirement rates, Mr. Mali. You're an economist, as you say, and you have to make a difference and you claim to be the best student, you have to distinguish between a nominal increase or a pension drop and a real growth rate, or a pension drop. There are many other influences that affect what is real purchasing power and what is the real value of pensions. Is it true that every piece of information, Mr. Minister, that I've read is correct? If we had a 2012 drop of 2.2%, in 2013, the real pension value dropped from 3.5%, in 2014 the real pension value dropped from 2.3%, in 2015 the historical maximum of 5.5% is the real pension value drop, these are in addition to the nominal reduction. We had a huge fall in real value. Then in 2016, one single growth, that's 0.1%, so that in 2017 we have a 1.2% drop again, so in 2018 you have a 3.6% increase. When calculated, if taken as the base of 2012 you get to a minimum of 86.17% of the real value of pensions compared to the base of 2012. If I didn't say one particular thing correctly, go ahead and say it. But you know it's true. How are you going to get from this real value from 86.17% to a pension of 14.73 to 25%, as you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64681	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64682	Here, to end this discussion. You're all right, Mr. Sarovic. You're all right. I've read how pensions grow from year to year, you're talking to me about some growth rates. I'm telling you about fiscal consolidation, you continue the same way. I think you've promoted yourself and your ideas enough. Let's move on with these amendments. In any case, what is very important for the citizens of Serbia, we are going with the pension increase for the third year in a row, we are going next year. The Swiss formula, stable finance, and this is an indicator that we are on the right track, that, with the increase in wages and the increase in pensions, we are going to an even higher growth rate of our economy from year to year, the pension will only grow in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64683	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Sarovic answered, but as far as I can tell, the minister confirmed everything. There's no need for a replica now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64684	Maybe you didn't get it the right way. So Mr. Sinisha Mali finally admitted that all the data from the Ministry of Finance's website that I read was correct. He still needs to admit another thing, that these data for him and the ministry he runs and the government of the Republic of Serbia are defeating. So the fact is that the real value of pensions is far less. What it means to us is that pensions are nominally higher and will be nominally higher in the next year if their real value is far from that. My question, Mr. Minister, since you've confirmed that I'm right about all this is, when are you going to return your pensions to the level they were at before your regime came to power? When are you going to compensate the pensioners for what you took from them by passing an anti-constitutional law on the temporary way of paying off pensions that you permanently reduced the base? So, to figure out what the pensioners are talking about. Once you reduce the base to 86.17% of what was, then add, then increase your pension by 2%. You're not increasing from what it should be, but with its foundation, you're going to do permanent damage to the pensioners if this doesn't work out. You have one option. This is what we require you to calculate how much each individual pensioner is less paid by passing such a law, to pay it off, and then to move beyond what should be the basis in accordance with the pensions that each individual pensioner has earned by paying into pension disability funds. It's only then that you can move on. It's not enough thanks. But let us correct that injustice and that which has been taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64685	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64686	I gave you a nice way to get fat out of what you started to talk about, but you didn't use it, so you got a lot more stuck. Now I'm going to give you a number, so you think about those numbers again, it's just not worth it when you're trying to be polite. So, the average pension value, the 2010 pension rate was 190 euros, the average pension rate today is 223.4 euros. With January 1st increase, the average pension will be 235 euros. So I'm talking in euros, I'm talking about what you're talking about growth rates, I'm talking about real amounts just given inflation, not nominal values, but inflation rates. Statistics are like that, and the percentages that you've caught up with can be seen from both left and right. They don't eat people's percentages, they don't pay with percentages what they need to eat or pay for communals and everything. They pay euros or dinars, or dinars, the euro's equivalent is real value. Do we agree or disagree? If we agree it's a real value, let's do it one more time. The average amount of pensions in 2010 is 190 euros, today 223.4 euros. It's actually bigger. Yes or no? With an increase of 5.4%, you have 235 euros from January 1st next year. Yes or no? In the real amounts you mention, so real figures, not nominal but real. It's just, of course, it's supposed to be shared and read, add, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64687	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64688	Thank you. It's article 116. As someone attending the National Assembly, the minister has the same rights and obligations as all MPs, which means he should respectfully address the MPs. For several days now, since this debate began, we have been very actively involved in the work, we have been making remarks, in line with what we consider to be an observation, which we see as an observation, we warn the public, pensioners, employees, etc. to what is hidden in the budget and it is normal for what we as an opposition party say to be drastically different from what the government says and what the minister says. Mr. Mali, the SRS and our MPs are very correct in the debate with you these days, and at least you should appreciate our relationship with you as a minister, not that you say that Ambassador Nemanja Sarovic, you are helping him to be "scave". Be whiten yourself, Mr. Minister, and Nemanja Sarovic presents the SRS' views. You said several times that he was trying to promote himself and he was expressing his views. You may be from a free flyer party, but Serbian radicals have their own political programme, they have attitudes and everyone here in the same way, of course, each in their own way in terms of performance, but we represent unique attitudes. You can do whatever you want, you can say whatever you want, your budget sucks. Your budget is pre-election, you will hear more during the discussion of a concrete remark, which is why we claim it. And please, Mr. Mali, this is not according to the Rules of Procedure, which I address directly to you, respect the fact that you, with great respect, are being addressed by the MPs of the SRS these days, that you at least give it a polite return. We understand each other, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64689	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. And I agree, and I just don't think the debate has come out of some respect and respect for each other. It may have been a tough one, but you'll admit Mr. Sarovic is also very tough. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) The word is Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64690	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe he is a member of 107. The Rules of Procedure are injured, and it concerns the dignity of the National Assembly. It has been said here many times that in some unconstitutional way something has been taken from the pensioners. I don't know if Col. Sarovic, who often mentioned it, is the judge of the Constitutional Court? Or maybe there's a constitutional court decision that we don't know about, and only he knows? Such a decision of the Constitutional Court, as far as I know, does not exist. There's one more thing. I don't see any difference between Dragan Gilas and his colleagues, because they, increasing pensions by borrowing the state, bought votes from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, it is not Minister Sinisa Mali, nor any minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia, who kidnapped some pensioners, that pensions were reduced under the laws passed by the National Assembly. He means the National Assembly is breaking the Constitution. Thus, it injures the direct dignity of the National Assembly. One more thing. The government of the Republic of Serbia and every MP must take care of everyone, not just one population, but agricultural producers, children, employees. Now, there's another statistical figure, which is that in 2012, it was 27% unemployment rate. This unemployment rate shows what our pension fund was, which is being charged out of contributions paid by employees. So if someone is doing populist work, which targets only one group, which is in this case pensioners, to get cheap political votes, working against employees in the Republic of Serbia. He wants the Republic of Serbia back in time before 2012. That's why they'll never get enough votes to run the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64691	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Now the right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64692	You see, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, how much the truth hurts. When I release the data, and that information from the Ministry of Finance, which is correct, which are accurate and which are completely true, you ignore yourself. You're saying that I'm promoting myself because I said that pensions have reached a historic minimum of 86.17% of the real value. Is this information correct - here, says Sinisha Mali that it is. And this can be checked by any citizen of Serbia on the Ministry of Finance website. The data is absolutely correct. But it doesn't suit you. The problem is that you have your mantra that pensions have never been bigger can't prove any data. It's just a story, a hollow story. And when someone shows you information available to everyone, it hurts. And then you start with insults, then you talk about decency, this, that. You would now, in every way possible, turn the topic away from what hurts you most, and these are the data from the Ministry of Finance, who are inexorable and who say - the decline in the real value of pensions from year to year. That's the point. Will you get the strength to give the pensioners back what you took from them? I ask you for the hundredth time, directly, Mr. Sinisha Mali - what is the price paid by the pensioners? Please state that amount by year. For 2014 you saved on pensioners so much, in 2015 so much, in 2016 so much, in 2017 so much. Let's finally hear what that amount is, if you have the courage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64693	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64694	I didn't insult anyone. I see you told me I was upset. I'm not as offensive as you are, but I want to answer your arguments for the truth and for the citizens of Serbia. I'll give you two more information, but first I'll repeat what I said. I quote as you actually said - never a smaller pension. Once again, if we watch pensions in the euro, in 2010, the average pension in the Republic of Serbia was 190 euros, and today the average pension in Serbia is 223.4 euros. With great respect both for Verica and for you, 223.4 is greater than 190, so it is impossible for you to be right when you say that in Serbia you were never less retired than today. I quote you, because that's what you said - never less pensions. We can take a look at the record. For next year, with an increase of 5.4% from January 1st, the average pension in euros will be 235 euros. So we've concluded in the figures, argumentarily, that the average pension in euros, so in real terms, is now larger than it was in 2010. Let's move on, one more piece of information for you. In 2010, there were 400.5 billion dinars. So all pensioners got the total amount of pensions of 400.5 million dinars. This year the total pension fund is 581.2 billion dinars, 581.2 billion dinars. You have approximately the same number of pensioners, so a higher amount of nearly 180 billion dinars is the mass of pensions today than in 2010. Next year it'll be even bigger. So that's the numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64695	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64696	Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly, as well as the minister, is insulting or misunderstood by the speaker, I do not know on what basis Col. Sarovic was given the right to replication. Minister Sinisa Mali said that he admits that he was right as well as Mirko Cvetkovic was right when he said, statistically, because he is constantly referring to these data and various tables, that the Republic of Serbia has come out of the crisis, only that's not what the citizens have felt yet. Well, it seems to me that these measures now carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to increase pensions are one part of the citizens, i.e. the pensioner, that's why he doesn't trust Nemanja Sarovic. And why doesn't he trust him? Because pension savings were just as much as Dragan Djilas stole while he was mayor of Belgrade, and Nemanja Sarovic helped him by delegating members of the administrative and supervisory boards of public enterprises where he founded the city of Belgrade. So 600m euros and a few million euros were stolen by Dragan Gilas. Such were the fiscal consolidation measures applied, unfortunately, to pensioners. We are now returning it to them by increasing, and someone would, it seems to me that whoever is attacking that policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will bring us back to the time of Dragan Gilas
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64697	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. Let's move on. I'm closing this circle. Member of the 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Professor Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64698	Thank you. Let me take a little look at pensioners' discrimination. If employees are reduced by 10%, why are pensioners reduced by 20% and 25%? Because everyone under the Constitution needs to be proportionate to their economic power, evenly contributing. Therefore, it is already constitutional discrimination. Mr. Minister, if this isn't constitutional discrimination, explain to me what it is. Secondly, you claim, which is true, that you were giving social aid to the pensioners. You did not give it from the department's division of labour, social and combat issues, but you gave it from other sections, or the position of that budget in the department's division, but you also gave it to the pension fund's burden, thereby reducing the potential available funds in the Pension Fund to increase pensions. Fourthly, Mr. Minister, do you realize that it is demeaning to receive 5,000 dinars of social assistance for those who do not need it? Come on, treat the pensioners if they are socially endangered in the same way you treat the socially endangered citizens of Serbia. Fifth, you're talking about Euros. Please, the gas was 90 dinars at the time, now it's 170 dinars. Back then, at the time, the citizens weren't paying a subscription to television, and now you've transferred it to the citizens. How many other positions did you load on the back of the citizens directly instead of on the budget? Why isn't public service financed from the budget? Can you explain it to me? Did you say that only a year of citizens will pay a television subscription, that it will then be installed into the budget? That's not true. You're constantly increasing. I'm not saying it's not for that. But, please, if the citizens are already paying, let's see what's on the public service. What are the shows? Why isn't there a village in every Dnevnik for three minutes, so that the farmers know, the village residents know they're paying for a television subscription because they're serving them with at least three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64699	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64700	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, again for the viewers. In 2012, Mr. Minister, you certainly know how robbed pensioners are. Public officials have made private businesses public. That's where Dragana Gilas came in first. Some of them helped him with his money. He gained a 619m-euro income, plus some related companies, you can add it all up, it has almost 800m euros. He even boasted on television shows that, during the previous government, he could only earn 74,000 euros, and during his government, while performing public office, his firm or his companies succeeded in incomeing 619m euros. Tim was proud. He also owned his own certain media and owned the seconds of all the media. That's how Dragan Gilas made money. At the time, Mr. Minister, pensions were under way from a budget that was quite poor, amounting to 824m euros. The pensioners were touched with 273 billion from the budget. Because half of the pensions were paid out of the budget, which means that pensioners touched those who would never have a pension or farmers who were 80 years old, they didn't have a pension, but when they fell into a tractor 100 liters of fuel they touched the pensions of people who were receiving that pension, but they had no right to do so. Retirements are dominating today. The speakers say the state, I don't know, is cutting off the pensioners. Pensions are earned. Incomes in the PIO fund are not enough today to pay out pensions in which they are paid, and next year they will be increased, I think, by 5.4%. Pensions will also touch next year with 151 billion. We are obliged to tell our pensioners that the pensions they receive are still being donated to approximately 90,000 dinars per pensioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64701	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64702	I'm finishing up, I think our pensioners deserve to make bigger pensions and that one day if they need to have a pension and a thousand euros, but that we as a generation that works, earn those pensions they don't receive, to receive them from the PIO Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64703	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64704	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, speaking to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, we heard that this budget, and also from the ministry's representatives, is a developmental one, but we know from experience that every budget to be passed in the election year is pre-election, because it is necessary to satisfy the appetites of large budget users because they are all ultimately potential voters. I have to point out here that unlike earlier ways of working, it is the government that the Budget Law unites with dozens and dozens of other legal proposals. The draft budget for 2020 is something for which we can give commendation to the applicant's address, as well as for the time foreseen for getting acquainted with the text of the proposal, as well as for the duplicated time for discussion in the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, today as you say, we have avoided a financial crisis from ten years ago, before this government there are major challenges in reducing the fiscal burden of profit and increased public investment, because building the basic infrastructure is very bad, especially travel and rail, and especially the environment. It's not just my opinion, it's the opinion and the fiscal council. The resources provided for to address this burning problem are negligible compared to the actual assessment of the size of the problem. So much more investment is necessary in the improvement of the municipal waste management system at each stage, both in preparation, disposal, and in particular in the processing that is almost non-existent. The municipality I come from, Prepolje, which I have spoken on several occasions from this pay phone is one of the examples of not investing, not planning and solving this really big problem for this environment, as Mr Trivan said, that it is one of the most beautiful environments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64705	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64706	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to point out to the chairman, Mr. Marinkovic, personally to you, please apply the Rules of Procedure in the future and follow how the ministers address the MPs. It turns out that ministers choose MPs, not MPs choose ministers. I would point out to Mr. Mali Sinisha, Minister of Finance, that it is inappropriate in parliament to address the MPs and tell the MPs that he is promoting himself. That's unacceptable. Secondly, if he's aggressive, it's unacceptable, I don't think he's right. Look up to Mr. Djordjevic. When did he say that? Never. It's a minister to be respected and respected. Secondly, Mr. Mali and your budget, it's "cow mazara". You see, "Politics" also published the assembly in a photo of "Muscar cow with a peasant". But let's see who milks that cow. Muzu is the cabinet of ministers, numerous ministers, numerous deputies, numerous state secretaries, numerous advisers, numerous secretaries, other officials, various commissions, various institutions. What are these institutions that are corrupting and spending their budgets? Many administrations, numerous funds, numerous directors, numerous councils, numerous protectors, numerous national services, numerous cabinets, numerous cabinet heads, numerous agencies, over 150 agencies in Serbia, numerous commissions and numerous NGOs. Mr. Minister, I wouldn't have this courage to go to the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia and to the NGOs, we predict that they are given 9,243,000,000 dinars, for which 5,000 tractors could be purchased to our agricultural producers. Mr. Mali, you said you were helping pensioners and you gave them one-time help. True, you gave 5,000 pensioners one-time aid that they could buy wood cubes, but without transportation and without cutting.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64707	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, and thank you for your previous suggestion. We'll pay attention. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and MP Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, with correction, submitted to the National MP. The word is Mrs Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64708	Thank you. Since it's a short time and I can't overstep it, I'd use a few questions to ask Mr. Finance Minister, and that's where's his idea for a new product in this 2020 budget? What you thought you were producing is both how and who to produce you, and did you even think about that way of doing it at all, or do you think that GDP is being made the way you do it with buying foreign investors, by paying our money to those foreign investors. Please, I don't think it really makes any sense how no one looks at an MP until the MP speaks. Since we don't have our economy, please, since we obviously don't have our economy, because we haven't produced anything, because we can't even export anything, because what we exported is just raw materials, and those raw materials were just exported by your privileged individuals, where the farmer, or the manufacturer, didn't know, or any profit with these exported raw materials, or has any connection whatsoever, that means that we didn't create any product, that we didn't make any pay in the real sector. What you gave the salaries, you gave the salaries exclusively from the scope of the taxpayers, you paid the taxes. These tax salaries you've given a very perfidious way. I don't want to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64709	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic Vukajlovic. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of the Minister of Finance, Mr Malo – how much in Serbia is owned by state agricultural land and to answer my question, Mr Mali, and what are the revenues from the state agricultural land issued in a criminal manner in local self-government. Does anyone know, I asked a parliamentary question to the government of the Republic of Serbia to give me an answer as many hectares of state agricultural land in Serbia? I've been waiting six months because he's running away from this data, because criminals, thieves and profiteers and tycoons take thousands of acres to rent state agricultural land, and a peasant who wants his child to stay in this country and to deal with agriculture can't get 10 acres, or 10 acres. It's a huge crime of deep roots, and you don't seem to be following me when it comes to state agricultural land. I insist that I be given an answer to this parliamentary question, because I have information that criminals are hired, and they haven't paid rent in years. That is why the state is obliged to take care of farmers, citizens, those who want to deal with agriculture. You have people who have taken three, four acres in lease, but it's interesting not to pay rent for years. I got an answer to one parliamentary question, three, four years ago, when it was found that there are people in some environments who are applying to bid, to hire, but profiters and criminals agree, to apply, and to give up, and to hire that thief and criminal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable SNS MPs are telling us about Dragan Gilas that he has stolen and won 600m euros, so why don't you arrest him? What are you waiting for? And give that money to the pensioners. Pensions are acquired right and this acquired right cannot be reduced. He's got to solve the looks and the Strasbourg about it. That's why we need to think, Mr. Mali, about getting the pensioners back. The state has opportunities, and I believe, that there are people among the SNS MPs who are considering the possibility that these pensions that have been taken in such a way, for the needs of the state, of course, come back, but with a legally tight interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64711	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic and MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Mrs. Mihajlovic, please. Excuse me, Mrs. Mihajlović, Professor. Shevarlic, seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64712	I had an amendment to article 17. You called me earlier, and you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64713	Well, yes, but you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64714	How I didn't sign up, so I can't sign up while they're talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64715	I've read your name and last name, all regular and by procedure, and you haven't answered, and there's a secretary next to me who can confirm it. Sign up, please. Professor, I can't give you my word right now, I have to give my first word to Mrs. Mihajlović, and you are now on the same amendment to Article 18 and I will give you the word right after her.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64716	Not on Article 18, I'm looking for a word for Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64717	I can't. We passed that amendment, you didn't pick up, you just didn't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64718	How am I supposed to answer that, when you said we had the same text of the amendment, the two of us?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64719	But you haven't answered at all. Mr. Jojic called, you didn't pick up. There's really no reason not to give you my word, and now we've moved on to the second amendment. Mrs. Mihajlovic, please. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64720	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment proposes that Article 18 be deleted because what this member regulates is already contained in some other laws. In the draft budget, only tables of revenue and expenditure are essential. The budget law cannot amend other material regulations. The proposal states in this article that fees for the work of the president and members of the committees, as well as other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector, cannot be increased in the following year. In particular, attitude 2 is interesting in which, according to the Proposer, competent authorities and public funds users are tasked to examine the need for these commissions to exist, as well as the amount of current fees, all in order to reduce expenditure on this basis. Of course we agree with this because hundreds of millions of taxpayers spend on paying commissions without clear criteria and without labour control. So, everything from the verification to the suspension of fees, i.e. the suspension of commissions, is in the report and the recommendation of the DRI to the Serbian government, as early as July 2016. Today, the same government in its proposal tasks the competent authorities to carry out all this, although it is she who is obliged to do all this. It is certain that the introduction of order in this area would certainly make the budget easier. To be honest, this is an inherited situation from previous regimes' practices, but it is time for the Serbian government to finally deal with these commissions, of course, if it really wants to bring changes into Serbian society. From all of the above, it follows that it is necessary to delete Article 18 in full. Draft budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64721	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64722	Thank you. Because according to the information funds, I read, Aleksandar Vukic said Serbia will provide 10,000 vouchers per 500 euros for the summer in Albania. If so, I ask the finance minister from which positions it will be paid and should Serbia pay, not only to Albania, but to any other country, encourage our citizens to go on vacation to those countries? The funds could encourage rural tourism development in 500 villages with 10,000 euros or 250 villages with 20,000 euros of grants for young couples, and they would gather around them, at least five more agricultural landowners to produce all that is needed to serve guests in these rural, tourist households. Also, these resources could be much more rationally used to, for example, in Vranjska Banja, encourage the end of a hotel complex that stands as a ruins, a skeleton of concrete, and water with 90 and a change of degrees at the source flows without any benefit. They'd develop that area, etc., and they could organize plastics there for flowers and vegetables.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64723	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64724	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, and we have asked, that is, to delete it because, as counterpart Mihajlovic said, what has been regulated by this article of the bill has already been contained in some other laws. The Budget Law is essential only to the table of expenditure and revenue, and it represents a technical means of showing numerically what the rights, obligations and responsibilities are. Here, this article is talking about costs that cannot be applied in relation to separate accounts, which you yourself stated in the bill and we believe that this matter should be regulated in another way, because the Budget Law cannot change other material regulations. We have also shown you in previous discussions through previous amendments both to a more balanced and better distribution of funds, and we believe that the funds that are intended for NGOs and various government agencies, that these funds should be transferred to agriculture, then to pensions, or to the payment of those funds that you took from pensioners in an anti-constitutional manner, and then to traditional religious communities, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64725	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64726	Thank you. I would take the opportunity as well as the presence of both ministers to ask another question, referring to the pensioners of farmers. Why are pensioners discriminated against and have lower minimum pensions than do pensioners who were employed by the employer or were independent entrepreneurs? Minimum pension, the concept itself speaks of being minimal and can't have two minimum pensions. One for two socioeconomic groups of pensioners and the other for farmers. Just a moment ago, it was said that all citizens should be taken care of by the chairman of the continent, that is, all citizens, why are not all citizens in the same position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64727	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Comrade Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the morning part of this debate the most heard about those items of the budget relating to pensions and pensioners, or agriculture. Of course, these are also important items in the budget and very important things, but since the beginning and principle debate, we have at least heard about those items of the budget relating to education. The Ministry of Education is one of the largest, most massive Ministry and most of the budget goes to that side, but above all for the reason there are the most employees. If you look at the structure and salary of people working in that ministry and the qualification, or educational structure, it is the Ministry above many ministries, but the salaries are wherever and where less than in some other ministries, especially if you compare the degree of professional training in one and the other ministry. My idea is not to point out that now, but here we have heard the representatives of the government boast that over the next few years there will be so many digitized classrooms and let's take it and believe it will be so, although I doubt it. However, my counterpart Filip Stojanovic, who comes with KIM, asked a question yesterday from the minister who and how much of the education budget is scheduled for schools in KIM teaching in Serbian and those schools, of course, which work under the Serbian State's programme of teaching and programme and which see Serbia as their own. However, we did not hear from the ministers or from anyone else in the government and get the answer that I would like to ask this opportunity to ask Minister Malo a question to answer that question about how much data you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64729	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64730	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards agricultural land, since the Minister of Agriculture is not here, let me say that there are about 520,000 hectares of state agricultural land in Serbia. On the country's slopes and pastures run by the meat communities, 75 thousand are under the control of the Land Administration. The Land Administration registers all 520,000, and those 70,000 are under the control of local communities. It's morning pastures and pastures. Of the 455,000 hectares, there are now 280 thousand to be leased. The rest of the land has no interest, it's mostly in Golia and the rope, so-called. part of Serbia, where the land is of somewhat lower quality, has been torn apart and has no interest in such a type of land, nor are competing. There are two to three thousand hectares of usurped in total, and this is what disputes are about. Three, four years ago, when we changed the Law on Agricultural Land, the usurped area was over 100,000 hectares. In the meantime, land has been brought in for purposes, leased, and these usurped areas are all between two and three thousand hectares and disputed over it. On the website of the Land Administration you have in electronic form all the state agricultural land that has been declared and on every agricultural land you can find out whether or not it has been leased and, if there is any evidence, I ask to be delivered to the Committee on Agriculture with the Minister we are working on and to see who the usurped parcels are and whether court proceedings are being conducted, since each parcel is now entered into digital form at the Land Administration. The site is very easy to handle and can be seen if there is a tenant or not. If the tenant does not exist, and the land is processed, I ask that the parcel numbers be delivered to me, and in this connection, unless there is a court case, we will bring a court case to usurp the agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64731	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64732	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, with my associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. I requested an amendment to delete the said member. I've been looking for a few reasons. First, the matter contained in this article has already been regulated by some other laws. The most important things in the budget are tables of income and expenditure, while everything else is in the other plan. The other material regulations can't be changed by the budget law, so this, as you suggested, is completely excessive. On the other hand, the wording of that member itself is completely unclear. Thus, the law sets out both the definition, or the definition, which allegedly refers to the same meaning. It is clear to all of us that these are concepts that exclude one another and cannot possibly have the same meaning. That's why I think it would be best for the government to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64733	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64734	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, proposed to delete Article 22. We suggested this because what was regulated by this article was already contained in some other laws. We had the opportunity to hear from the finance minister several times in the debate that a stable basis for growth is being created through this budget, as well as a better Serbia, which will be a better place for our children's lives, and President Vukic says - people are leaving us because they are looking for a better future, not to eat. We can really treat this as political paroles of the representatives of the government and a way to only boast. The fact is, and it's nothing new, that the acts now adopted by the National Assembly are actually political decisions translated into law. These passwords that the government is referring to to the public we've had the opportunity to listen to for the past few years, and the fact is that they're really just passwords. The reality in Serbia denies those who pronounce them. In addition to what I'm saying, we have an undisputed fact that a growing number of young people are leaving Serbia. Leaving is everyday. Mostly young people and middle-aged people go away. The same goes for highly educated people and people with secondary education. All these people are leaving, among other things, because they do not trust this authority, and the reason is, I quote what was said on 10 March 2014, Vukic told representatives of international institutions that savings in the budget can be made through a reduction in the number of official travels or cars, a reduction of salaries in the public sector of more than 60,000 dinars, but that they cannot be made in the area of pensions. I don't let retirement touch it, as it's said. If we touched those rights, we would not only create a problem for pensioners, but also the state, President Vukic said. This government has tried to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64735	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Time. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64736	We in the SRS have been talking for days about the draft budget, we offer arguments, we express our views, we present very specific data. We also often present data published by the president of the government, ministers in the government, etc. And then you in power get angry and tell me the story of the budget we're collecting cheap points. Well, we certainly address voters. We're not talking, as someone just said, to the audience, because this is neither a movie nor a theater. We're talking to the general public, everyone who wants to hear from us. Our points from here we want to make are political, but yours are expensive political points, because instead of arguments, you give people bags of food, you give the euro in cash, you give bags of hygiene packages, etc. Now these are expensive political points, and what we're doing is really a story for political points. You now say whether we will be in parliament, how many we will be, etc. We are ready to stand before voters and we are proud of what we do in the National Assembly, we are proud of our consistency, our expertise, our knowledge, our seriousness, and we accept the only thing that is normal is that our number in the National Assembly really depends on voters. You obviously have a problem that your future stay in the National Assembly depends only on the words of one man and then you try to tell us something that has nothing to do with what we are essentially saying. Here's some data. The people of the profession, economists, doctors of science, people who have published many scientific papers, many books and who are members, or experts of the SRS, of our economic team – ask Siniša Malia and ask Ana Brnabić, say we are asking that they deliver real data, and not those they consider to be their methodology, make data, so the public will be surprised and the average profit in Serbia, what is GDP, what is the percentage of the unemployment rate, etc. So, you're all about what you're saying in public, what you're reading, and it's different from real life. Here, for example, from 2001 to 2019, pensions have increased, Mr. Minister, by 33 euros, and you count your percentages in whatever way you like, as statistics set you up. That means 3,880 dinars. And, in the meantime, since 2010, how many more communals, how many times, how many electricitys, how many goods of broad consumption, where did the VAT go, where are the excises? The average pension, you say, is 235 euros, and you say it yourself, Minister, and you say the average salary will be 510 euros since December, and yet you said that pensions are 85% of the profits. If that is true, then the average pension from the beginning of December must be 433 euros, which is unfortunately far from the real situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64737	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64738	Mr. Minister, I will use this amendment to talk about one non-existent item in the budget that is necessary, and it will also agree with Minister Djordjevic, who was defence minister, concerning the problems of the homeless military. For 25 years now, this problem has been extremely pronounced in Serbia and I will be talking about the problems of the Kragujevac military homeless, over 90 families for over 25 years, these are officers, members of the JNA military, who have come to my hometown, waiting for the state to solve it. There were all kinds of promises. In some cities in Serbia, you find some property-legal relations that prevent the problem from being effectively solved, but that is no excuse. However, in the town of Kragujevac, with a little bit of goodwill, you personally, the defence minister, the entire government, and we trust future competent authorities, because this one with Radomer Nikolic is unable to do so, therefore, in the next fiscal year you have to start solving this. Not only will you solve the problem of the military homeless, but you will realize that the town of Kragujevac will also receive additional income, by entering into an arrangement with the Government or Ministry of Defence's Department of Property, on the purchase of the barracks "Radomir Vojvoda Putnik", which is absolutely unusable since the vicious NATO bombing, where several hectares are thousands of acres of surfaces that can be used and estimated to be worth 30m euros to 35m euros. Maybe the town of Kragujevac won't be, now he's too in debt because of this incompetent rule of Nikolic, but in the future he might be able to pay a lower price, you know how it goes, when you sit on one side and the other to talk. However, in the context of a public-private partnership, where a building block, a business space, an extremely attractive location, in the very core of Kragujevac, can also be created, and I think that you as a minister should seriously deal with this, as well as the defence minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64739	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sinisha Mali, here's a little more information from the Ministry of Finance's website, which in the most picturesque way can speak as much year by year as your regime in power has worsened the position of pensioners. In fact, the ratio of the average salary and the average pension in 2012 was much more favourable. So in 2012, the average salary was 41,377 dinars, and the average pensions of 23,024 dinars and then the average salary was 55,65 % of the average salary. From year to year, ever since you came here, that relationship has been getting worse. In 2013 it dropped to 54.5%, 2014 the average pension is only 54.08%, 2015 52.2%, huge decline in 2016 50.95%. In 2017, for the first time under 50% is the average pension compared to the average salary of 49.93% and finally, in 2019 48.29%. This data you say will be the average pension of 235 euros next year and the average salary of 510 means that there will be an even worse drop and that the average pension will be only 46.07% compared to the average salary. In 2001, after the bombing, after the sanctions, after all the problems we had, the average pension was 74.12% compared to the average salary. And this shows that the golden age and the biggest pensions in Serbia's history are actually not real value, nor compared to average wages, they can't be measured, they're getting smaller and worse from year to year.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64741	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the University of Belgrade has received 820 million more since academically. With this in mind, in today's press, you could read something interesting about those who insist on studying all the doctorates, but that only the doctorates of those MPs, those officials who support power. But, behold, miracles, one of the loudest, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, whose mother works at the Anti-Corruption Agency, so I guess she can do anything, so she can influence, she prescribed her doctoral work. So it's about the person who copied, plagiarized and votes. You all know that Sasa Radulovic received votes for the association, many of them, and then the lady plagiarized 15,000 votes and passed them on to Gilas. Why Gilasu? Because Gilas' party official Tijana Mandic, is her mentor. Her mentor knows well that she prescribed her doctorate, doctoral work, and it is seen immediately in the introduction that she prescribed Michael Mamford's work, Sven Hamlin, etc. Here, I got it, I got it. I got it out of the press today. So I appeal to Mrs. Rector, who received 820m more for Belgrade University, now has more space to examine, when she was already on her way, the doctoral work of Ana Stevanovic, our fellow Member, who has been receiving a salary for a year and is not coming here to work, em plagiarized the votes, transferred them from Sasa Radulovica to Dragan Gilasu, em plagiarised the salary, em plagiarized the doctoral work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64743	Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when designing this budget and delivering to the Assembly, were to announce here who the great taxpayers are. It is known that there are many and that huge money is owed to the state, and they don't pay. Among them are numerous tycoons. When it comes to the budget and this item relating to services, I think it is the most possible place to abuse it, because it is 78 billion 362 million dinars. No one can control this. Here are huge funds that can be manipulated and can be spent on non-purpose purposes. When it comes to funding the judiciary and the legal system, I believe that in this case, the Ministry of Finance was wrong and wronged the judiciary. We need to raise the judiciary to a higher level. You can't ask the judge today to have 90,000 dinars and ask him to solve the most difficult cases. In that case, Mr. Nedja can here, as a folk MP in front of the SPS, confirm that small salaries are employed in the judiciary, that they are small salaries of judges, and that in order to eliminate possible corruption, and that corruption is confirmed by even the holders of judicial functions, salaries must be doubled to the holders of judicial functions. Secondly, as a lawyer, I have more insight into certain cases in senior courts. I believe that there is a lack of judges in the Court of Appeals and in the administrative courts. There should be an increase in the number of judges, as citizens are waiting for a decision in the appeal procedure for five years, especially when it comes to cases concerning social or labour matters. (President: Bring the end, colleague Jojic. ) I therefore believe that this budget should have been designed and, in any case, intended differently and allocated these funds in the general interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64745	The People's MP, Neđo Jovanovic, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64746	I thank you, Chairman. It is true that what my distinguished colleague pointed out is present in the courts of the Republic of Serbia and that judges, especially in the first degree, have a slightly higher income compared to the average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. When I say it insignificantly, I refer to the fact that, given the role of the judges of the first degree courts, and these are the courts of general jurisdiction, the basic courts and the economic courts, they must be greater. I also asked the opening debate in several of the announcements during this discussion of the Honorable Minister to consider increasing wages to the court's tenants, given the extremely small amount of earnings they receive, and on the other hand the extremely significant jobs they do. However, what I have already pointed out, dear ministers, you were right to react yesterday when you pointed to a projection provided by the Justice Ministry, when it comes to burdening the budget with extremely high fees, therefore, amounts of compensation, due to violations of the party's right to trial within a reasonable time. I have to be very precise this time to make sure that the rights of trial are not only generated by courts within a reasonable period of time, but also by other elements, factors, factors, factors, whatever we call them, which, by their actions and inaction, contribute to the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, such as the Agency for Restitution, such as the Office for the Real Estates, such as the situation we have in Kosovo, where due to the enormous duration of bankruptcy proceedings, because our bankruptcy authorities in Kosovo cannot act adequately, we have this problem. So the multiple action is when it comes to the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Lastly, the esteemed chairman, which I want to say is the fact that we must bear in mind, which is that we must never allow this burden, which suffers the budget, to be passed over to courts that did not cause it, but to those who have indeed generated this consequence, and to what the distinguished colleague Jojic pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64747	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64748	Mr. Chairman, in any case, he states what he has brought forth today by the distinguished Mr. People's Messenger of Nedha is standing. A lot of this must be resolved in the judiciary, as the SRS sees the judiciary as one of the most important pillars of state power. Through its functioning, the full nature of the state order and the political regime can be successfully seen, and it implies and requires a whole series of actions and political actions to be able to function in accordance with the requirements and needs of the modern state, notably in the sphere of protection of the interests of citizens and their legal certainty. The only states in which it is completely autonomously entrenched to the judiciary is a system in which they can fully protect their civil rights... Therefore, I have pointed out earlier, but I would like to further support, and allow me, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to draw attention. We have a smaller number of judges in appeals, administrative courts, because citizens have been waiting five and a half years to resolve the appeal procedure, and that is, in any case, of the general interest of the citizens. That's why I think what Mr. Jovanovic, the MP, said is necessary. The judiciary in the set, first of all, financial support and thus we will have the right to justice, an independent judiciary, but with my note. We want the judge to be independent, to be impartial in making legal decisions, but we can't say that he's independent of making an illegal decision, to say in a verdict – the prosecutor is right, and the claim is rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64749	The People's MP, Neđo Jovanovic, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64750	I thank you, Chairman. I'll be in touch this time, given the right of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Of course, fully agreed with the facts that are highlighted by the distinguished colleague, and with only one small addition, and this supplement is in no way irrelevant. When it comes to the judiciary, given that the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia is in the highest focus, let me say, with the greatest degree of attention from the European Commission, all relevant factors, the international community and how they see shifts in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to chapters 23 and 24. Of course, the number of judges in certain courts must be increased, but it must also be borne in mind that certain parts of the judicial system are inadequately and untimely responding to the phenomena that I and my esteemed colleague have shown. Where no competition has been called, it is known that there is a possibility that where there is a shortage of judges, judges from other courts, even low-level judges, can be referred to the work so that an optimal job can be carried out for which judges are obliged to do so, for which they are competent under the law. The only thing they're not independent of is their independence from the law. In addition, what has been very present lately is the very fact that we have a large outflow from the judiciary, a large number of judicial holders who have left or recently retired, and we have a responsibility, as a legislative body, which still has jurisdiction, when it comes to the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, that in this direction we make sure that the courts are not in a position to perform functions, nor are there in a state of lack of judges due to the urgency of the case and the citizens' interest in the availability of justice in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64751	My colleague Jojic, on what grounds? (Petar Jojic: He mentioned me. No more, colleague Jojic. You're colleagues with respect. (Petar Jojic: How is there not?) So, by principle, I'm your duke, you're my lord, and then we're gonna be replicas? National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64752	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 30. The bill regulates the schedule for the use of the sectoral budget support received under the IPA programme, which the Ministry of Finance can schedule according to the priority and the IPA funds are the EU financial instrument supporting the EU enlargement strategy and providing assistance to candidate countries in the EU accession process. However, we have repeatedly pointed out that the EU is the one who constantly blackmails Serbia and sets out different requirements, as well as the conditions that the funds they have given will be used. Do you think anyone will give us money just because they love us? On the contrary, it is clear to all of us that they will seek something in return for their money. I'd also take advantage of the opportunity and look back at the incentives in agriculture. Although you say that the funds that are intended for this budget are more significant, we cannot agree, because these are still insufficient funds in relation to subsidies that countries in the environment or anywhere in Europe give to their agricultural producers. We believe that agriculture is one of the most important pillars of our future development and almost half of the population lives in rural areas and it is necessary to help farmers. The government of the Republic of Serbia follows the EU's path and takes orders from Brussels and cannot meet agricultural producers while the EU protects its producers at the expense of Serbian farmers. We also believe that our farmers need to be given more significant resources to become more competitive and to improve agricultural production and the placement of Serbian goods on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64753	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64754	Here are some data that show that your budget is pre-election. No developmental, no social responsibility whatsoever. So, you can see in that table two that you've increased the separation by 29.7% and now you're going to say – you're against us helping the socially endangered. No, we know how to do it. We know that your activists, i.e. the officials, the day before the elections, call all the socially endangered and say, "Here, today you will get so much and so much, or you will get on Monday when you bring us a picture that you voted for us." Well, it's already been seen. Repair and maintenance of equipment - you increased the amount by 82.71%. It's one of the items we've been looking at for 20 years, 19 years from budget to budget. No one ever explained what that money was and where that money was going. We expected from you, Mr. Sinisha Mali, that you would release the budget of these balasty, these hidden costs that are in nominal amounts, and no one knows how they are spent. Material 41.94% increased. What's a 50% increase in material? Subsidies - 33.3, grants to international organisations - 51.55%, donations and transfers - 38.94%, again taxes and penalty pens - 49.24% increased, fines by court solutions - 33.71%. This last one has nothing to do with the election, at least not the election day, but it's about the sad state of justice. For various damages, I prefer this when it's different, suspicious, vague - 27.59%. Machines and equipment. You've increased the amount by 58.68%. So voters know that those who are now in power in the next election are probably sharing laptops. That's about to fit this amount. Real estate and equipment. It increased by 1,038.53%. Who's gonna buy real estate in the state? For what? What equipment? What are you doing, my people, what does this look like? Immaterial property 336, 36% increased, etc. And then what they're already doing to you, before these transfers to municipalities go to this budget for next year we have a pearl to the pearl of your local self-government. This morning, we read that Goran Cvetanovic paid for the 45,000-euro budget in Leskovac for the assembly toilet and imagine it was a budget rebalance due to the installation toilet. This is amazing. If it's from Cvetanovic, it's too much. But we have something even more interesting. Milicko Milickovic, from Rakovica, is not officially the president of the municipality, but here's what Rakovica Municipality has done. Otherwise, Rakovica has about 200 employees, bought 600 jackets, winter jackets, so many duks, vests, T-shirts, 500 hats, and all that paid 2.5 million dinars. Aren't these hats, T-shirts, jackets for activists to run a campaign in Rakovica? Imagine, they don't have at all, they may have 10 people working on a freighter, who should possibly need a jacket to know there that it has a mark where it works and what it does. So, the employees are going to what-- wear these jackets with the hoods that are being taken off? This is embarrassing and embarrassing. This is what shame and shame means to you, this is a crime for which someone has to go to jail. Indeed, your blasphemy ahead of these choices is too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64755	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirjan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64756	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's a lot of talk here about pensions, about rights. I'll try talking about debts. Therefore, gentlemen ministers, we need to find a way to write off or write off a large debt to the PIO insurance of farmers. At this point, the debt is more than 160 billion in interest. This is the product of that meaningless former regime law that has prescribed that all those involved in one agricultural land which is over 18 years of age must be necessarily retired as farmers if they are not employed. If they lost their jobs and returned to their land, they also had to be secured. That's how uncharging debts were created. That 160 billion is almost non-chargeable. We have to write it down to a large extent, write off the interest and part of the principal, and in such a way allow the new generation of farmers to retire, and therefore we will have a larger number of payments. At this point on that poor peasant pension, which is often less than social aid, and with that in mind, the average payment for the farmer's pensioner is 18 years, and for the employed 38 years, and for the independent activities of 32 years. So, and what little they get is covered by everything with 20%. In order to get more users and for farmers to get a higher pension, we need to liquidate a debt of 160 billion to increase the number of people who pay pension and disability insurance. Now with this debt they have no desire to pay it, because it's by them throwing it in the well. Therefore, the PIO debt needs to be regulated as soon as possible, as well as contributions to health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64757	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64758	We have brought, MPs, to remind you, and you, Mr. Martinovic, as president of the parliamentary group, the Law on the Serbian Literature Society. You remember that, it was this year. But there was a disaster after that. The culture minister defined, through a project to co-finance only one million and a half dinars for this institution, which is of cultural, national, immeasurable importance for Serbia, which has been in existence for over 120 years, whose edition "Colo" has over 740 editions. And today, when people come to a celebration or even enter the rooms of the Serbian Literature Association, many people also cross over because they know that their ancestors also came here, that the Serbian literary cooperative was founded primarily by the greatest minds of both Serbian politics and literature. It's just amazing that on the other hand, you're giving out the 2020 budget, Mr. Minister, 62 million dinars to maintain the court complex on Dedinj. Here you have on your list of advances, MPs who say - the Crown Prince, that and that. First, we are with the Republican state order, no heir in Serbia exists. The one who falsely presents himself is the son of the father who betrayed Draž Mihajlovic and who invited members of the army in the country from London to betray General Draž and to join, he said, marshal Josip Broz. You give them 62 million to garden, and they seek through the process of restitution, against which we are, to return all their property, not for the Serbian literary cooperative, but for the poor millions and a half of dinars. You're not giving enough funds for the Serbian Matrix. You do not, after all, give enough funds for the wine festival of the parish in Alexandrovac, for the regatta in Baja Basta, for the trumpet parliament in Guca, there are not enough funds, and you throw your hands and hats at NGOs that have spy and anti-constitutional activities in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64759	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just talking about the functioning and work of the judicial authorities, but I have to draw attention to the government to break the practice of the yellows who sent prosecutors from Belgrade to cities and primary and senior prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. Why would they do that? Well, they did it in 2010 so they wouldn't come under the influence of those involved in crime in those cities and these municipalities. You see, prosecutors are being sent from Belgrade to perform their duties in other cities. You have one drastic example, from the Third General Prosecutor's Office, Rastko Zivadinovic, a man who served as the primary public prosecutor in Prijepol. Imagine, for a year and three months that he had the cost of a separate life of 853,000 dinars, and then he had paid off, on behalf of duty, 538, two and a half million, three of them spent a year and three months. What is this country that can finance these tourists more? That's what the yellow ones did, so I suggest that the current authorities stop this practice, because the man who was sent to Prepolje has finished law school with six, so don't we have better lawyers in the basic prosecutions, senior prosecutors, than to send those from the yellow brigade, that they go with the sixes to share justice. As you can see, here's only one for nearly three million a year and three months caused the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition, that public prosecutors be eventually elected, because 34 of them, according to my records, are acting as a public prosecutor. Secondly, to point out one phenomenon in that direction, as these charges arise. You have a bankruptcy mafia in one case, 280 million were paid out of the budget on behalf of court expenses, because the charges and charges were unfounded, so the court had to reject it. Therefore, the government here has to do with its officials, and the public prosecutors are government officials, because the government is proposing that they be elected by the National Assembly and that must be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64761	Thank you. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64762	Nearly 90m euros in Serbia's government has defined with this budget that citizens of Serbia and citizens in the southern Serbian province of KIM know, for the next year, what our countrymen in KIM need. We, by this amendment, Mr. Minister, have asked you as a promoter to allocate funds and control of spending on KIM for whatever it takes to help the remaining and survival of our endangered people, the control is carried out by the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic himself, because we know from previous experiences that when it is entrusted to a particular ministry, it is not good. During that time, Kostunica's authorities, when they were the great defenders of the Serbs at KIM, so much money was robbed in the southern Serbian province through various non-existent projects. We even wanted to request that a survey committee be established in the Assembly, to establish all these facts and circumstances. There were some MPs, patriots from Kostunica's party, who had thrown in their pocket hundreds of millions of euros, representing a health home, a foundation for something, and hundreds of thousands of euros. In addition, we believe that at least 20m euros more could have been allocated to our countrymen to Kim through the redistribution of the budget from other divisions. They need it most, because it is amazing that you are giving in the 2020 budget such money to certain NGOs that act directly against Serbia's constitutional order and against Serbs at KIM, who openly say that Kosovo is some kind of so-called Kosovo. An independent state and we can't be surprised, and since it's only for citizens who live, Serbs in KIM who know and need much more money, that you waste money like this and give it to Serbian traitors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64763	Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64764	Well, in addition to what my colleague Jovanovic was saying, there is much more to be added. It envisions that the KIM Office is obliged to provide quarterly reports to the finance ministry on funds transferred from its division to local self-government units in the AP KIM territory during the year. It's well written, but what happens in real life is quite different. You know, one day, as we were just talking about those who abused the state of the Serbs at KIM, misusing money, I'll be afraid of those who do it now, in a different way. You know, Sanda Raskovic Ivić took a huge amount of money by taking as an employee a large portion of the money that some organisation from abroad gave for some project for activists who participated in the project. Now these suspicious matters are happening from the state level. So, what's modern about Kim now? It is modern to establish agricultural cooperatives, fruit cooperatives most often and then, in these cooperatives, officials are mainly officials of ruling parties in these municipalities. And, of course, big money is at stake. Distillery is being built, objects are being built. What's our problem and why we're even intervening on this topic is that the people who live in KiM don't feel the help of the state of Serbia, which exists, but is directed at only one part of the people who lives there. And that's why we want you to see well what it's all about, which is some kind of "Organic Fruits NB Zebinc," so who's "CE fruits GL Koretište". Who are your officials - Goran Cvetkovic, Velibor Tasic, Aleksandra Stojanović, Vesna Ivanovic, etc., not to list them. This is about two million dinars worth of business. It's a business worth between 14 million and 27 million dinars. So, huge money is at stake and it's good that the state of Serbia is giving out money to help Serbs in KIM, but give it to the people, don't let a handful of your officials in each municipality realize, especially it is characteristic, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija say, in Kosovo's maritime region. Don't torture the works of your people to let some of your officials get rich there. Find them another way to get rich, this is really both Greota and shame, and above all crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64765	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic and MP Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 41st amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64766	We've asked to delete this provision and this member, Mr. Minister, and we do it absolutely every year, it has nothing to do with your proposal now, when something like this is listed in the budget law, because it simply doesn't belong to him in this law. The Public Debt Act contains all that are the applicable material and legal regulations governing the obligations of the Republic of Serbia. But, as far as this member is concerned, we can talk about the debts of public enterprises in Serbia and the fact, Mr. Minister, that you will be in the situation in the first quarter of next year, that the GDP growth you presented to us during this debate on the budget is planned, because you will also have a problem with Serbia's electricity economy again, which has done exactly that because of the reduced electricity production period from January to April this year, you have had such a low GDP growth rate. Should I remind you again that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in earlier councils, and in this too, has repeatedly approved that Serbia's electricity companies are being loaned for equipment, for everything they need, for remonting, for installations, without talking about those famous 200m euros for the restructuring process. And what did they do with that restructuring? Absolutely nothing - bad governance, bad management, big losses, much higher than the average, both in countries in the environment and in countries in the world. It's simply one problem that you have avoided and during this debate on the 2020 budget to speak about, but I don't know when you will. Then after the next election, you or someone else who will be, and you hope to be as advances again in power, we expect citizens to think about it anyway, because you've made a lot of promises. You know that folk saying-- a lot of wanted, a lot started.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64767	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64768	Thank you very much. Since the law has passed the prescribed deadline on the delivery of the response and I have received a incomplete answer, i.e. that I have not received an answer from the Prime Minister, from Vice President and Sinisha Malo, Minister of Finance, I am now taking advantage of the opportunity and the presence of the finance minister to ask the following questions again. If the statement by Herbert Klick is correct, please provide me with an answer and documents to the following questions: who is, when and where, and on the basis of what regulation and decision which authority of the Republic of Serbia signed the contract in question or other legal document on the readmission of migrants who are not similar to that of life in the EU? Please provide me with a copy of the memo in question, how many migrants per year have received asylum for staying in the Republic of Serbia, how many migrants with asylum in the Republic of Serbia have been purchased or leased apartments or rural houses and properties, in which municipalities and how much money for these purposes has been allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from which budget positions? How much funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget has been spent on the needs of migrants in Serbia for what purposes? Does the monthly budget of the Republic of Serbia pay the funds to the accounts of migrants staying in Serbia, the monthly amount per migrant and members of their families and the total annual amount per year? Can I get an answer or not? I'm waiting for my time to run out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64769	He has submitted to Article 41 of the amendment... (Alexander Martinovic: Can I answer? ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64770	Here, I'll try to answer you, Mr. Chevarlich. What you are doing, it has been done for days by Marinika Tepic, for days by Bosko Obradović. They go public every day with all the new and new lies, and now we from SNS every day from a small brain need to get an answer to the notorious nonsense and notorious lies. Where did you, Mr. Chevarlich, see a migrant with your own eyes? Why are you scaring the citizens of Serbia? What are you saying? I'm not going to use any harder words because of your age. What's next? Migrants are going to occupy Serbia? Have the migrants caused you any problems? Did they steal any Euros you got from Dusan Petrovic? What did they do to you wrong? Why are you scaring the citizens? Today we're trading weapons through some Free Tesic, tomorrow via some Push, today the migrants are going to occupy Serbia for us. Come on, tell me, please, you who belong to the former regime, what's the next lie, so we can get ready in time, so we can prepare some excessive answers? To what you're asking, no one in their right mind can give you an answer, because what you're saying is the most nakedest possible lies, completely pointless claims. The state of Serbia at the expense of migrants is paying some money... Do you even understand what you're talking about? Have you heard of the Asylum Act? Have you heard of the Foreign Movement and Stay Act? Let's get familiar with the legal system of the state you live in, then go public and scare her, today with Slobodan Tesic, tomorrow with some Push, Nebojsa Stefanovic, with Mali, with migrants, etc. How can I tell you-- what you're doing, it's not like your age. Keep going, but you are going down to the level of one Marina Tepic. You are descending to the level of your former boss, Bosko Obradovic, a proven fascist, a proven bully, a man whose biography would be completely empty if there were no stone entry, entry into RIK, physical harassment by two journalists "Pinka" and physical harassment by Maja Gojkovic. Here, it's your leader's biography. You are now, as a man of age, as a former professor of the University, etc., you have landed at the level of one Marine Tepic, who robbed everything she could while she was the regional secretary for youth and sport and landed at Bosko Obradovic's level. If you think it brings you some political point and it affirms you as an agricultural expert, I don't mind, you move on. I'm just saying that what you're talking about is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64771	The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64772	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, I'm not a former professor, I didn't die. You should know that calling a regular professor is a lifetime, and if you want, I can now show you a valid solution to the commissions for selecting a professor. (Alexander Martinovic: So behave according to that calling. What? Wait, let us not lead the controversy, lest we be interrupted by the chairman. Secondly, what's in this issue? I fully understand that the state of Serbia must allocate part of the funds for the needs of migrants and single out for the sake of passing and each day singles out. I received answers, Mr Martinovic, from the territory of the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, I received answers from the territory of the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, I received answers from the territory of the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac and the territory of the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis about the procedures that were led and ended up against people from those countries, but I did not get answers on the financial aspects of this. (Blaza Knezevic: More procedures have your coalition partners. It has nothing to do with those who are convicted. Secondly, if an Austrian minister on national television has said that Serbia has signed a readmission agreement for migrants who are not like that in EU countries and have been registered first in Serbia, I am interested in how they went through EU countries, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Greece or Italy, and are not yet registered in Serbia? Is that true or not? What's the problem with delivering the answer to that? Please don't compare me to other MPs. Each MP is responsible individually for himself. I'm responsible for myself. (Marian Risticevic: You are sick, and seriously. You're one sick person. Go on, heal yourself. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64773	Right to replica, first Minister Siniša Mali, then Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64774	Thank you very much. Just one budget information, which is related to the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. So in 2019, five billion 639 million dinars, planned for 2020, were 9.4% less, so five billion 106 million dinars. You could probably read that yourself. So by 9.4% we have less in 2020 than in 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64775	The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go. (Miladin Ševarlic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64776	Will you give Mr. Sarovic a word from the Rules of Procedure, or can I speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64777	You can talk. Miladin Ševarlić: Yes, you are the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. Mr. Chevarlitch, I give you a warning about the curse. Not to repeat what he said. Comrade Martinovic, just ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64778	Mr. Chevarlic, what you're doing, it's called fearing Serbian citizens with a danger that doesn't really exist. More acts of physical violence have been committed by your former boss Bosko Obradovic than all migrants combined. That's one thing. Secondly, what you should know as professor of the University, the Republic of Serbia under the Law on Asylum and by other applicable regulations has an obligation to register any stranger found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it's done by other countries or not, it's none of our business. Our thing is to apply Serbian regulations in the Republic of Serbia and it proved to be good that we did it. Serbia currently has between three and four thousand migrants. What this fascist Bosko Obradovic is saying is some hundreds of thousands to occupy Serbia, so in Serbia instead of Serbs, Arabs, Pakistanis, Iranians, and who knows who. However, he's a little off about it now, seeing as he's become a great friend of America, a great friend of the West. The man doesn't come out of the N1 television studio, so there's a little bit of his anti-immigrant rhetoric that's been tempered, but I don't know what you're going on about. What have these migrants done to you specifically, so now the most important issue in Serbia is how much does Serbia as a state single out for migrants? As a state, Serbia has an obligation, under the law, through the Refugee Commissioner and through the Asylum Centre to provide accommodation, nutrition, treatment, funds for children's education to migrants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. But don't scare the citizens of Serbia, 99.9% of those people who have found themselves in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for all sorts of reasons will not stay in the Republic of Serbia. They go to Germany, they go to Switzerland, they go to Austria, they go to Scandinavian countries, they go to places where life conditions are actually better, not only in Serbia, but they're actually better than Bulgaria and Greece and some countries, including Italy, which is a long-standing EU member. (President: I thank you. But what you're doing right now is scaring the citizens of Serbia. I don't know why you need to do this. It's something that you as a professor of the university just don't like. But no problem, you just keep on telling the truth. If you are going to accept the policy of Marinika Tepic, Boška Obradovica and those similar to them who, every day here in the Assembly Hall, hold press conferences and present the worst possible lies and lies by reading "Tabloid", if you are going to deal with, as a regular professor of the University, a policy at the level of Milovan Brkic and "Tabloid", continue, but then I have an obligation to answer those untruths.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64779	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64780	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, you have not responded to the insults I received during my exposure, that I should go to treatment, that I am sick, etc. (Marian Risticevic: There is no shame in being sick. I may be sick, I have high pressure, but I didn't participate in the reality program and I don't insult other MPs here. You've never heard a word from me. I don't think it's correct to give one MP a warning and another MP not to say it, but it's your right, as chairman. Serbian citizens see and let them conclude whatever they want. As for Mr Martinovic's response, I can respect some aspects of your exposure, but we MPs are obliged to take care of any issue that is of interest to citizens. You will agree that there have been extremely many problems in Shid, that there have been extremely many problems with the Faculty of Economics and the bus station in Belgrade, that there have been extremely many problems at the Corridor of Merdar via Kursumli. (Alexander Martinovic: Any problems with Bosko Obradovic? What? (Alexander Martinovic: Any problems with Bosko Obradovic? That's your political opponent. (Alexander Martinovic: So why don't you talk about it? Why don't you talk about it? Why are you talking to me? When Bosko gets here, you come out and you talk to him. (Alexandar Martinovic: So why don't I just pop in? What are you, a patriarch? Don't talk to me about Bosk. I don't talk to you about anyone else. (Alexander Martinovic: Was he your boss? Did he bring you into parliament? ) He was president of the MP club for me as a non-partisan MP. (Alexander Martinovic: Overnight you became impartial. It's not overnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64781	Please, colleague Chevarlich, no direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64782	Thank you, Chairman. I'm asking you to give me a warning and a second one, so the Assembly can make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64783	Comrade Chevarlic, the MPs always earn each other, and the warning is for cursing, not for throwing away. And don't expect us to have an academic atmosphere here in the National Assembly, and everyone will be quiet while you're muttering. It's something normal. I think after four years you've gotten used to it. Do you want to? Okay, you said you wanted to. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64784	Mr. Arsic, you are by who knows which way you broke the Rules of Procedure, and who knows which way you show your personal animosity above all, towards me. You have violated Article 27 which obliges you to conduct these sessions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There are moments here when the Rules of Procedure applies and the Rules of Procedure do not apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64785	Comrade Sarovic, do you explain why you received a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64786	Let me explain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64787	You want to repeat what you threw at me?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64788	You can do it again, but when I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64789	No, I'm not gonna say it again, I've been raised enough to keep things like that from getting a warning, not saying it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64790	No, I don't. Now is the time in which I explain. Now is the time during which I explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to repeat what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64791	Comrade Sarovic, please repeat that which is why you received your notice. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. I'm sorry, first Marian Risticevic. Here you go. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 103, 106, 107, up to 111. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, do you know what the minimum of fascism is? So, when you single out one group, you do research, interrogations, how criminal, criminal, etc. When you take migrants in this case, as one particular group and you deal with them, you express what it is, I don't know the crime rate, etc. It's a minimum of fascism. I understand that someone whose bearer of the list was a follower of Dimitria Ljotic, can think that way, but we others need to condemn it, regardless of what a retired professor is. That's one thing. Secondly, we are a people sensitive to migration. We are a people who have been through war horrors, only in Toronto live 80,000 Serbs. Did they migrate? Let me ask you how many of our people built houses because they lived and worked in Iraq, Syria, Libya. We didn't destroy those countries, they were destroyed by the Americans and the EU, the NATO Pact. Why don't we let people in transit, with very little restraints, try to reach Europe, a Europe without borders. So, those Europes that have contributed to their countries being found in the war wind. We Serbs who also had an external, internal, but externally imposed war, which we migrated during the Bosnian war conflicts, from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, even Croatia, and so on, to many European countries, to America, in Canada. Imagine now if someone sprayed all the migrants who migrated, and almost every other Serb lives outside Serbia, if someone said -- let's get them back to examine how criminal they are, let's get them back to Serbia, what they're doing in our territories. What would happen if someone did that to us, which is what Professor is trying to do. Shevarlic to do with them. So it's a minimum of fascism, and I think it's time for us to condemn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64793	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64794	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. I answered because I just don't want to be president of the SNS parliamentary group anymore to suffer the hypocrisy that comes from those who were in power until a few years ago, and I specifically think about Mr Shevarlic. To tell you the truth, I'm fed up with more of what you'd say young, faked, I'm a non-party figure. I'm a bit of a communist, so then I'm a Latvian, so as a Latvian, I enter the National Assembly, and then after two or three years, I become a non-party person, and in the meantime I'm a little yellow, as I get money from the yellow ministers of agriculture, such as Dusan Petrovic, Slobodan Milosavljevic, etc. Well, then I enter the National Assembly and then day by day scares Serbian citizens that Serbia will be occupied by migrants and I mention some problems in Shida. Mr. Chevarlich, I don't mind if the migrants did something that was contrary to the law. Yes, it should bear sanctions, but it would be minimum, it would be minimum, correct, you would be a minimum honest man if you said, what crimes, what acts of violence did your former boss, Bosko Obradovic. He beat people up more than all the migrants combined. Every day Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, these are all the people who are close to you, with whom you work, lead the worst propaganda against the state of Serbia. This is no longer a war against Alexander Wolfiche. Do you understand that? This isn't a war against SNS anymore. You hit the heart of the state, but it didn't work out for you. You tried to accuse a Serbian state of illegally exporting weapons to whom, mujahedins, al-Qaeda, Yemen, Ukraine, ask God where. The best denials for all of this is what the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, did today. I hope you got that call. On December 3, 2019, at 2.30 minutes, the National Assembly will address Belarusian President Aleksandar Lukashenko. And, at last, it will be clogged by mouth, by all these thugs, like Bosko Obradovic and others, because if here in the National Assembly where we are now, and where I am now saying that the MPs are addressed by the President of Belarus, I think that every reasonable and sober citizen of Serbia will be clear that these lies about illegal arms exports are completely deplaced. Well, do you think Lukashenko would have come to Serbia if we had done anything contrary to the interests of Russia, Belarus or any of our sincere friends?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64795	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64796	Mr. Chairman of Veroljub Arsic, let's face it, if you really want to be objective, don't every time show impatience to a fellow member of the SRS. There's really no need. We're trying to be correct, but you can't possibly, you have to wait, so it's not going to work normally. So, you're behaving arrogantly, and you're acting, just before you interrupted your colleague Šarovic and when he talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You reminded me of those in The Hague. I'll charge you, and it's yours to defend yourself. You gave the warning, Mr. Arsic, you. And you're the one who has to say exactly why you said it, not ask your colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64797	Just tell me what member, breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64798	Article 116. So, you have to say why you gave the warning, not to ask whoever you gave the warning that he was telling you something. You claim to have heard something from that place that no one in the O.R. heard. And you have to say what you heard, which made you give a warning. Don't, Mr. Arsic, budget is a serious matter. The Budget Law depends on the survival of every government. Don't let it bother you when you talk about the budget here, if you say anything that isn't strictly related to this text, that you're making drama, that you're saying something now suddenly a reminder, because you won't, I don't know what to allow. Don't, colleague Arsic, I'm very well-intentioned and collegiately telling you that this debate ends in some truly democratic spirit. I think that's pretty much how it's been all day. Don't spoil the impression at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64799	Otherwise, Article 116 applies to other participants... . According to everyone, they should all have the same rights. ) It means that other participants have the same rights as the MPs who participate in the work of the National Assembly. In Article 109, paragraph 1, the reminder is made to the People's MP, so now, the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, if he uses swearing and offensive expressions. Nemanja Sarovic: Who did I curse, what curses? If someone says it's supposed to be full of the Rules of Procedure, I understand it's a curse. Whether you understand it or not, it's not my problem, but the fact is that everyone in the O.R. heard it. You can't deny it when I've been able to hear it from this place. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. (after crawling ) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. It's a business thing. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64801	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the draft budget was set, former Governor Soskic reported and gave an extremely negative assessment. He said on that occasion that GDP is not growing. So the growth of 3.5%, 4%, 4.5% doesn't satisfy him, because at the time he was governor of the National Bank, it was minus 3%. You, Mr. Arsic, remember that anyway. He said he was against the salary hike. So, relative GDP growth- growth and wages and I don't know why he's against it. Then he spoke negatively of inflation. Inflation's been at an annual level of about 2% lately. In his time it was 10.3%. The former governor, known not only for inflation, also spoke unfavorably of the course. So it's the same governor whose time of power and government, along with these boycotting unfortunates, in their time course went from 78 dinars to 117 dinars, that's almost 50%. Now that the course is still for seven years, he's talking negatively about course. It's about inflation, let's remember in 2010, at a time when Governor Šoštic and how he was the government, inflation was 10.3%. Then he kept quiet, it was a rise price for a little bit. Now he's answered. Then he spoke negatively of investments. Investments, as far as I know, are about three and a half billion euros a year. In his day, it was only a billion. Then when you take who's a critic, how come you don't vote for a budget like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64802	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64803	Mr. Arsic, you, in your custom, continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, do it systematically, completely and clearly do it on purpose, and think that with such behaviour you will achieve something. You have violated Article 103, and I have warned you before, that you must make sure that you try to indicate that there is some principled difference between you and those who led the Assembly in the same way while you were opposition. You do not react when the worst possible insults are brought here, not only today, but also during the previous months and years, when MPs are directly offended, when parents, mothers, children and other close relatives are insulted. You will enter history, not for any good, but you will enter by giving me a warning because I allegedly insulted the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure can't be offended. If we accepted that, it would mean that you might have been rocking him for an hour in this hour in the hope that this Rules of Procedure would be a little better. You know very well that I have never offended a single MP here. The reason why you keep punishing me is because I am politically tearing you apart, as Marko Kraljević has driven the Turks to their asses, so I am breaking you up politically. And you can't stand it, and you think that these pointless punishments will affect me. They're no better, nor smarter than you, nor will you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64804	I don't know why I hurt a member of 103, Mr. Sarovic. As soon as I started the session, I first read the amendment of the promoter, you asked for the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, I gave it to you, as soon as my colleague Marijan Rističević finished. And you threw what you were saying when you spoke, colleague Martinovic, is talking about you, not me. Of course you'll be remembered for that. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64805	Mr. Arsic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I feel that the Assembly should declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64806	Thank you. (Inemnja Sarovic: I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again. ) Comrade Sarovic, make sure there is no abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64807	I'm careful, Mr. Arsic, and so are you. You may not understand it from this skin and from where you sit, but the Rules of Procedure, as he does today in your favor, will sometimes be you on the other side. Our people have a proverb, which says “batin has two ends. ” You've hurt Article 27, and you've given an explanation that's absolutely not true. I applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure before the regular break you gave at 14 o'clock. When that regular session ends, it continues on a regular basis where it stopped, and you were obliged to give me the opportunity to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and two minutes to explain the injury. You didn't do it, although it was obvious that I was reporting to the Rules of Procedure, several times I said it out loud, and my application in the system was from about 13.55 a.m. until after the break, you reset the system only after you wouldn't give me your word. So, what you're about to take a break, you have to figure it out, can't erase all the violations of the Rules of Procedure that you've done before. And when you give a break in accordance with Article 112, which you sometimes try, that doesn't mean you'll delete the previous course of the session. It's a shame. Everything you've done before by breaking the Rules of Procedure can't be erased by a break. Does the break erase the memory of Serbian citizens or MPs? Of course not. So when that break continues where it stops, and you make it impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64808	Comrade Sarovic, as soon as you asked for the word, you got it. Nemanja Sarovic: Not true. I couldn't stop my colleague Marijan Risticevic. (Nemnja Sarovic: You were obliged to give me your word before it was answered and I have the right to the championship in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) The system always resets when the break is over. Do you want the National Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Inemnja Sarovic: Of course I want the Assembly to declare itself. I thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64809	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, we are having a debate today on the 2020 budget. Of course, the projected 2020 plan would not be feasible through this budget unless we have both the results of the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of Serbia through results that have been hard work in the past six years, the Republic of Serbia, together with its citizens and government and SNS, which is practically the headquarters of this majority not only in the Assembly but in the government, has shown a high degree of responsibility for what the future of Serbia means. The NBS results for 2018 have shown that over the past six years we have practically managed to maintain low inflation, to preserve the standard of citizens as far as possible and to implement all economic reforms and fiscal consolidation and to make business easier and open this investment environment for both domestic and foreign companies. What we should really be proud of is that we have managed to maintain this pace of inflowing investment towards Serbia at one envious level, which essentially shows the results of all international financial institutions in their reports on Serbia. Of course, it was presented by the most prestigious economic magazines and commended Serbia that we are one of the leaders when it comes to attracting foreign investment. What we must not forget at the end of this debate today is that this stable inflation and a stable exchange rate has opened the door for an external trade exchange, which in each year was growing larger and larger, and today is at 70%, means the coverage of exports, which has been at some level of 60% since 2012, that we are working with both east and west today, that this is the result of a responsible foreign policy led by and Mr Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Ana Brnabic, who inherited, at the end of the year, and SNS and Alexander Vukic's policy while he was prime minister, but we have made it possible by attracting foreign direct investment to bring unemployment to almost 10% and we hope that in the following year, it will fall to a single-digit number of percentages, that the minimum price of work that we are talking about today is 30.022 diaries in Serbia, which is approximately 5700 diaries. What is important to say is that the public debt from those nearly 78% fell to 51%, which is forecasting for the next year to fall to 50.3%, which says that we will return to those constitutional guaranteed parities of 45% and that we have almost come out of the time of the economic reforms of fiscal consolidation and that the budget is in fact the goal, which is to increase Serbia's standards and accelerate economic growth, which was only 4.7% for three quarters this year. This means that Serbia will line up countries with high economic growth. These are the irrefutable results of Serbia's development, and this is what bothers all those who today are trying to make political topics, such as stories about how the great experts who once led the National Bank, who had no chance at all to talk to the citizens of Serbia, justified their negative contribution to this economy, were already on the basis of this negative growth, i.e. the decline of the entire economy being personally rich and in all of this today trying to minimise the overall results of the work of both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state and this assembly majority. This is why they move to the field of politically invented topics, precisely because these topics that we are talking about today, which are of a positive character and that they are saying that Serbia will invest largely in investment for young people, building apartments for young couples that the state will simply implement, and these competitions, and give one better tomorrow to young people to live here in Serbia, to make more wages, where we will have the possibility to actually employ 15 thousand young people in new scientific and research parks not only in Borca, where there will be 15 thousand, but six new entrepreneurship centres will be opened throughout Serbia and live and completely change Serbia's image. It is clear to all of us why those who simply do not support Serbia's future want to show Serbia in a completely different light, but because of this it is our task to keep talking to the citizens of Serbia, to talk about the results of this policy, and what it is that everything is waiting for Serbia in 2020 and what it is that our task is to work on all of these plans that we have given not only through the 2020 budget, but through a new national investment plan in the next five years, which will include 12 billion euros, which will surely give Serbian citizens the opportunity to simply judge the results of the work of those who carried this policy and those who carried the policy by 2012. In the day for the vote, the SNS will support this draft budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64810	Thank you. On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64811	Thank you. One of the problems that needs to be solved for farmers is certainly their debt to health insurance. What I think can least be done at this point is that their debts are completely written off and interest on those debts for the period when their health books are not certified, because they were then using health services, paying for private and no reason, retroactively no one can do health services and thus clear a part of the ballast they have. It's simple and it's a resolute ministry that can do it right now. I know it's difficult, given the budget disturbances, which will arise on the side of the claims, but in any case, it's unrealistic to expect. I'm sorry there's no health minister here to recommend anything. The other day I read and reviewed a Study of Health Cooperatives in Serbia, given that the first health cooperative was founded in 1882 in present-day Lazarevec, that there are on the other hand that the rural population is extremely old, that before the start of the winter period of the patronage team of doctors and nurses visit scattered rural houses in semi-relent villages and to conduct a survey of the population in those locations, because they are not able to reach health centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64812	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. He's officially absent. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we heard during this debate, among other things, that you're excruciating funds for the military, that Serbia is buying new combat funds, and I really have to say that I look forward to whenever I hear we're buying a new plane, when we're restoring that military air, when we're buying missile systems, and that's something that's good for Serbia, first of all, because Serbia as a state is threatened. Part of our territory is occupied, and there are territorial claims from several other states in our environment. In order to defend the state, however, it is necessary not only to have rocket systems, to have planes, but also to use them. We should have fighters. You don't notice that, Mr. Minister, but wartime military disableds and war veterans have been on strike for 54 days in Pioneer Park. The name of the strike is "On the defensive of the homeland" and they are the first to ask for nothing for themselves. They demand that in one systematic way solve the problem of wartime disabled and war veterans, to recognise that status for 1998, that is, from March 23, 1998, when the military, according to its rules, started military operations, to recognise the war effort of those who defended the Republic of Serbia, because if you continue to disprove these people, and to favour those who left Serbia at the time of the bombing, those who were deserters, while they were released and while they were smart, while those who defended the state turned out to be mad, will not be able to defend Serbia. We need an army. These people don't ask for any charity. They left their hands and their feet, and many of them left their lives on the back of the country. What is minimally what we owe them is that at least after more than 20 years since some of these war conflicts have ended and since many of them died or other permanent disabled people, to gather their families, to be accounted for in a fair and correct manner, to be given assistance, to know how many of them they will get, to get priority in the employment of state authorities... (President: Here, I gave you three minutes.) Here, I'm done. And to finally say that those who are deserters can no longer work in the state service.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64814	Thank you. To article 46 of the amendment... You didn't give me your word. I'm sorry. I especially apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64815	Thank you. Given that today I have not received an answer from any of the ministers what makes the difference between 40 billion 588 million and 753 thousand dinars, as planned in the 2020 budget proposal for a subsidy position in agriculture and rural development and what under Article 4 belongs to agriculture and rural development, which is 56 billion and 605 million or 16 billion 016 thousand 247 dinars, because the Minister of Agriculture showed only the chart, claiming that it has 5.5% and not 5%, which would be good. I propose to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic not to sign the law that is, an indication of the declaration of the Budget Law, because with this way, agriculture and the village are extremely damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64816	Thank you. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. On Article 48 of the amendment in the same text, a Member of the Verica Radet and Prof. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64817	Thank you very much. Today, I have experienced a lot of unpleasantness in this Assembly, both from the president of the SNS MP club Mr. Martinovic, who has equated me with him to unloved people or members of some others, bringing some untruths about the individuals I have had contact with, but I have never collaborated financially. And he forgets to say that at the time of your term of office, at the request of the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, I was hired again after the census by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, etc. (President: Thank you. I can only tell some people one verse, and that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64818	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64819	Fellow MPs, Minister Mali, the debate on the draft budget law ends in a few minutes. You, the assembly majority, of course, will adopt this budget, and we, the Serbian radicals, will not vote for the budget. We made a lot of remarks during the debate. Of course, there are also those we have failed to present for this time that was scheduled for discussion, but we wanted, above all, to point out to the public that the incorrect claims made by the representatives of both the government and the National Assembly are that the budget is developmental. The budget is obvious and we have shown this on a number of examples, first of all, taking into account the budget, first of all, the fact that in the beginning of the year, that is, in the first part of next year, elections will be called and elections held, and this budget is well pre-election. Mrs. Ana Brnabic said this is a development budget and says – especially in the digitalisation sector. And then when we say that we thought she meant the chip factory, the one that Mubadala was supposed to do five, six years ago, then you get angry. Well, we just remind you of what you said and remind, of course, first of all, the public. Here we are resented, they say – you are talking to individual groups of people, you are talking to pensioners. No, I don't. We are the messengers of the people, and we turn to all those who wish to hear what the messengers of the people have to say in the people's congregation and what they say in the people's congregation. Something like this was quite disturbing when Mr. Sinisha Mali answered the questions of the MPs on the first day of the debate, and he boasted that the government would finance a film about Jasenovac from this budget. It is certainly good and certainly that we must not forget our history, but it was quite astounding when he said – President Vukic decided that the Government was funding a film about Jasenovac. So you didn't say that he consulted with you, you didn't say that he suggested, that he initiated, but decided. Then we were already wondering what this discussion of the budget means and your vote tomorrow, or when it's going to be a vote on this proposal? You talked about raising wages and pensions, you in your own way, us in ours, we in argument, you populist. You were talking about pensions being increased from the next year to 5.5% or 5.4%, as you said, but you should've said that from the same period, electricity would be up by 3.9%, that they've already accumulated many goods of broad consumption, that it's expensive meat, that we're going to pay a higher price for so-called. Public service, that trees are now being collected when winters are being prepared, that infostan has inserted some item into Belgrade, no one knows which one, which has increased the price, that the prices of energy have been increased due to so-called. The energy efficiency that nobody lives for doesn't even know what it means, or who that money's gonna go to. So this pension increase won't be an increase in spending, but you've found a way to get that same money back, through everything I've counted, back into the budget. We also talked to you about minimum income and pension and we argued and we claim that both minimum earnings and minimum pensions must be at least 37,000 dinars, because it is the only way to get out of what is earned or, when it comes to pensions, from what has already been earned to survive as well. You asked, "Where would you pay for this money?" We have told you and mentioned agencies, NGOs, these hidden costs and the millions of euros paid for arbitration due to harmful contracts. So we've all told you where you can find money to raise your salary and raise your pensions. You say a reduction in the tax rate, an increase, or a reduction in the tax on income contributions of around 1%, will affect wages. He won't. They won't, Minister, because employers' representatives are already saying they're going to invest something small in production. It's never occurred to anyone before because you didn't make a commitment by law, if these contributions are reduced to raise wages. That's what no one, not before you, and you didn't do it either. Mrs. Brnabic mentioned social cards. He says there will be e-cards. Eee, really when? Therefore, these social cards are promised for the first time in the "e" edition. You're nowhere near this year. Pay grade. No pay grade. If profits were paid by paying classes in the public sector, then there would certainly be more money that could be transferred to the pension fund. You're boasting that you've increased the Science Fund. Minister Sarcevic promised here, from there, that the next budget would also provide for the financing of the Hague-based verdicts' Research Institute. There's no sign of that in the budget. Because you're not interested in these general state matters, general national matters, but you're looking at where you're going to sew up some voice and some capillary voice. For this reason, it remained in force to ban employment in the public sector, which is also very bad and what people are doing for a certain time and to provide a number of votes, photographs, ballots in the election day. So, we're not making up anything that's already been seen. I have so much time to comment on another comment by Ms. Ana Brnabić in the debate with the MPs, when we said it was not quite normal to talk about the property confiscation law, i.e. about the origin of the property, which means confiscation, and at the same time that the property is once taken away. When we said he might... If you do that and you take away the property that you like, then someone might say in 20 or 30 years that you're very bad, like they were in 1947, and they'll return what you're taking away. Mrs. Ana Brnabić then said that she does not guarantee that these previous assets, which are being returned to, have acquired something quite legal, but she says they have proof that it is theirs, including these, which you want to take from them, have proof that it is theirs. Obviously you want to be populist again to fight wealth in Serbia instead of doing everything possible for those people who are already rich, of course, to get into the system and into the frameworks of the law. The state is powerful, it can do it whenever it wants, and of course, based on everything we've been telling you about the budget, that all the people in Serbia are finally starting to feel this improvement that you're talking about. You know, nothing changed much compared to what was before you came to power. Statistics are ruthless. You know, the lowest pension is less than 10,000 dinars. She's nine times smaller than the biggest pension. Seventeen percent of pensioners are on minimum pension. Farmers, 250,000 of them, receive less than 10,000 dinar pensions. So you give 4.5 billion dinars to football clubs. What does the state have to do with it? It's nice to have a sport going on, but sports is a private matter. Your state is to provide conditions for physical culture in all schools, not to give someone else money in this way, and 350,000 people are on the minimum, and more than 400,000 people in Serbia live just a little above the minimum. I'm sorry, not even with that minimal, you say – we've reached some famous ones, we've skipped 30,000 dinars, because now it's a minimum of 30,022 dinars. It's just, I've spent my time asking you -- how are families going to secure that 7,000 dinar magic number, if you've set a minimum minimum of 30,000, and you've also calculated that the minimum consumer basket is 37,000? What are people who don't have those 7,000 and aren't social cases going to give up, work, make money, and you still feel like a social category for this lowest profit? You insult dignity and pensioners for such low pensions, as well as the employees you've reduced to such poor wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64820	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64821	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Professor Miladin Ševarlic mentioned me in his debate on the amendment, so let me answer him. Mr. Chevarlic, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, this is the NIN's tomorrow side... (Miladin Chevarlic: I can't see.) Here, I'll give it to you. So, on the NIN's front page tomorrow, you have Alexander Vukic, next to him, Milorad Dodik, visiting the Krusik factory and now look, so tell me if this is a coincidence – a sniper rifle, I think this is Black Arrow, pointed directly at Alexander Vukic. This, Mr. Chevarlich, is an invitation to murder. This is a clear message from those behind Dragan Djilas, behind Bosko Obradovic, behind Marinika Tepic, behind all of them who campaign against Aleksandar Vukic for days and weeks, against Neboja Stefanovic, against our dedicated industry, against our army, against our country, after all, this is an invitation to murder. Do you want Serbia to become Bolivia? Do you want to kill ourselves here in the streets? Do you want every day some self-invited people say they're presidents of the state? Let it also be a shame to the one who put a picture like this on the front page of a weekly. This is a murder call. This is a clear message of what to do with Alexander Wolfich. A few days ago when he was placed on VMA, this so-called. The local front of the Kings said that Alexander Vukic needs to be put in the back of a rap, five bullets in the back. Now after a few days, tomorrow, you can buy a NIN, on the front page very beautiful, very democratic, very European, very citizen-published photo of Alexander Vukic and Milorad Dodik and a sniper rifle directly pointed at Alexander Vukic. You want to be on that side? On the side of the killer? On the side of those who would like to completely destroy our country, make Serbia a Bolivia, cut political unsuspecting men to their heads, and then drag them through the streets with chains? Do you want to make one European state from Latin America? Don't be on that side. I don't mind, criticise. Tell me one or the other. We can agree or disagree on the issue of migrants, but be on the side of those who have pointed a sniper rifle at the President of the Republic, who is democratically elected by more than 55% of Serbian citizens, do not be. You Serbian citizens well imagine the message of this photograph and think well of the propaganda that has been spreading throughout Serbia for years that there is no media freedom in Serbia. Not that there is any more, this is no longer freedom of the media, this has become an anarchy in which every lunatic who thinks he's a journalist can publish a photograph in which he is very clearly referred to the murder of the President of the Republic. As for the SNS, we will never deal with our political opponents in this way, we will always beat them in the election, and I call on the editor-in-chief of the NIN who killed us these days with his morals lesson, on ethics, on how Sinisa Mali is an unseen criminal and thief, let him tell him what this photo means to him in which the Black Arrow sniper rifle is directed directly at the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, and imagine in a situation where the President of Republika Srpska Milorad Dodik stands next to him. You got it. This is like from the time of Goebbels - destroy Serbia, destroy Republika Srpska. Do not be on the side of those who would like to destroy Serbia and destroy our Republika Srpska. If we let it be destroyed, what we Serbs do, we don't have a spare homeland.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64822	Miladin Ševarlic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64823	Thank you very much. This is the second time you've shown the headlines of the newspaper in this congregation and brought them into contact with me. That's very rude. Please don't do this anymore. I'm not a minor, and I don't need to listen to you or anyone else where I'm supposed to settle in. I'm nationally defined, but I'm not a chauvinist, and unlike many others, I've taught... (Marian Risticevic throws.) Can I finish the president? ... in three countries at six university centres and at the Military Academy for another 15 years and in Osijek, and in Vinkovci, and in Sarajevo, and in Mostar, both in Cacačka and Belgrade. I'm an honorary professor. Volgograd State University. I was a doctoral mentor from the EU country. I was the president of the Commission to elect a regular professor from the field of agricultural economy in the EU. I was mentoring post-doctoral training to a colleague, not from an EU country, but from a country that is a NATO pact member, but I don't support a NATO pact at all. I don't agree with Alexander Wolfich about GMOs. I showed it correctly, I also think correctly at that first session when he, as a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, said that four tomatoes were genetically modified, which is absolutely incorrect and that it has been modified with the genes of a disgusting animal. He had three agriculture ministers next to him: Nedimovic, Knezevic and his colleague Bogosavljevic in the hall. And no more, please, to behave... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64824	Thank you. No fighting, just. Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64825	I had no intention of insulting you, Mr Shevarlic, but I must remind you of the citizens of Serbia - you entered the National Assembly on a list called Dveri - the Democratic Party of Serbia. You were talking about migrants. You scared Serbian citizens of threatening Serbia's occupation by migrants, that Aleksandar Vukic would settle Serbia with tens and hundreds of thousands of migrants. You said migrants do this or that. I reminded you that one man, who was president of your parliamentary group yesterday, who in the meantime fell apart, Bosko Obradovic, committed more acts of physical violence than all migrants combined. I just asked you not to scare the citizens of Serbia because someone who, as you say, is nationally-oriented doesn't do it. It's not politics -- let's scare Serbian citizens about being occupied by Arabs, Muslims, Iranians, Pakistanis, Afghans, etc. These migrants didn't teach you any harm. I doubt you've seen any migrants. This NIN front page on which the sniper rifle is turned directly to the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, it is only proof that in Serbia what has been happening in the past few days is an invitation not to fight the SNS, this is an invitation to destroy the state of Serbia because when you hit the dedicated industry, when you hit the military, you hit the heart of the state. You are conscious or unconscious, I hope unconsciously, sided with those who campaign against this country for weeks. Now that you analyze Boško Obradović's statements, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic addressed to the account of Aleksandr Vukic and when you analyzed what they said in Croatia until a few days ago when Aleksandar Vukic was supposed to speak in... (President: Thank you. Time. )......................................................................................................... Zagreb, at the Congress of the European People's Party, is used by Bosko Obradović, Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas rather than by MPs in the Croatian Parliament. There he was called a Chetnik, threatened not to come to Zagreb, and here he campaigns against Alexander Vukic that he, as a Chetnik, is selling weapons to mujahedins. Then you get the front page of the NIN that's going to go public tomorrow, which tomorrow will be able to buy on kiosks and Serbian citizens will be able to see how the sniper rifle is pointed at the body of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. (President: I thank the MP. ) Now you tell me that this is an accident, that it has nothing to do with those who campaign against this country for weeks, against our dedicated industry, against the Serbian Army, against everything that is the heart of Serbia as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64826	The word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64827	Mr. President of the Parliament Club, for the second time, you're making the same mistake. Don't do that anymore. Don't get me involved with anyone else. I'm responsible for my actions, not for the actions of others. You go ahead and deal with your opponents in a way that suits you. (Marian Risticevic throws.) President, can I speak or will you allow them to interfere? So that's not the first time you've done it. That's the second time you've done it, and don't put a target on my forehead. The second time you're working the same way. You're showing the headlines of a magazine that I haven't seen at all, and I have nothing to do with it. That's really incorrect. If you don't mind, there's no problem. I'm not tied to the umbilical cord for here, but the citizens see this and I hope that in the next election they decide differently, that the partial structures are not dominant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64828	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64829	I don't put a target on you, Professor Chevarlic. I appreciate your expertise, and I've never tried to discredit you as an expert. I point to a phenomenon that is very dangerous. It is scandalous that a weekly who has a decades-old tradition publishes a photograph that actually calls for the murder of the President of the Republic. It's impossible for hundreds and thousands of photos of Alexander Vukic by the NIN. They publish exactly the photograph beside the president of the Republic of Serbia by Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik, and the gun pipe pointed at the body of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. I don't believe in coincidences, and I believe you have a similar opinion. You and I, I respect both your professional references and your age, you and I, we held a discussion on migrants. We disagreed. I just told you that migrants have made far less trouble than the people you went out with have. Whether you have political ties with them now or not, that's your thing, but I'm telling you, no migrants were breaking in with motor saws in RTS, no migrants were calling for a rape of Anna Brnabic, so the migrants weren't wearing gallows in the Terrace, so the migrants weren't pushing a truck into the Serbian presidency building. That's what people who represent themselves as an alternative to SNS did. This was done by Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, by those to whom you belong, in a political sense, do you share the same political values with them. After all, you have no right to tell me what I am going to say in the National Assembly or not. My task is as a folk MP to inform Serbian citizens that tomorrow they will be able to buy the latest edition of NIN on the front page of the NIN, and there is a photograph of a sniper rifle pointed at the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. What kind of message is that? Let's kill the president of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. Let's make Bolivia out of Serbia, let's destroy everything so we don't have any more Serbia. As president of the parliamentary group, not that I have the right, I have an obligation to talk about it. If you had a little political honesty, you and those who think alike about this cover, you should talk, not me. Imagine that a weekbook published a photograph aimed at Dragan Gilas, according to Vuk Jeremic, according to Bosko Obradovic. I think any possible and impossible international institutions would be responding by now. About this photograph, God forbid any of them come forward. Since none of them want to make a statement, we need to talk about the people's MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we are protecting the institution of the President of the Republic. It's not just about Alexander Wolfie. This is about an attack on the state, because Aleksandar Vukic is not a mere natural person, he was elected by the president of the Republic of Serbia by more than 55% of Serbian citizens. He who pointed a sniper rifle at Alexander Vukic, in fact, pointed a sniper rifle at the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, because the photograph next to each other includes Aleksandar Vukic and Milorad Dodik.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64830	Right on line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64831	Mr. Martinovic, I'm really sorry, but for the third time I have to tell you that you're treating me incorrectly. I didn't even see the photo. I do not forbid you to present any photographs, to address yourself in the way you consider them, but by addressing me in this way you label me in this congregation. It's not naive at all. Don't do that again. Serbian citizens see, Serbian citizens know who Sevarlic is, who is also Martinovic, who is Bosko Obradovic, who is Djilas, who is any other name. Therefore, I beg you, it is your turn to listen while I answer. I'm not asking for an answer, but I'm asking you not to do it anymore. I also worked for the SDPR and I know what the contract is. And today I have a contract that has a secret clause and is registered with the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64832	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64833	Maybe you, Mr. Chevarlitch, from that distance, don't really see what I'm showing. (Miladin Chevarlic: I can't see.) All right, you can't see. You'll see tomorrow. Tomorrow we'll have a session of the National Assembly, and here I am calling you, and I will never answer my word again. At this distance, I wouldn't see me sitting where you're sitting. I accept, but here tomorrow we will have a session of the National Assembly, please, because you say you have nothing to do with Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, with a local front from the Kings who would like to fire shots in the back of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, if you disagree with the message of this photograph, and the message is - kill Alexander Vukic, I think the least that Serbian citizens can expect is that you fence yourself from this and say, "people, I have nothing to do with these lunatics." Because this kind of thing is a political message that's not just political, this has the elements of a crime. I'm asking you again, what do you think would happen to us from SNS if we published in some newspaper photo of a so-called. The leader of the opposition, and that sniper rifle was pointed at them? Tanja Fajon and various commissions and forums dealing with the freedom of the media and the monitoring of the human rights situation would be announced today, etc. And this is what you all keep quiet about. They'll be quiet tomorrow. None of them will say a single word. Why? Because Alexander Wolf is allowed to be the target. It is allowed to talk about the Ph.D. of Sinisha Malo, it is allowed to talk about the doctorate of Nebojska Stefanovic, it is allowed to talk about the doctorate Jorvanka Tabakovic, it is allowed to do everything in this country against those who currently carry the highest state functions, but don't talk about Dr. Bojan Pajtic. Please don't talk about one of the leaders of the opposition, this Crown Prince Bosko Obradovic, as he says he has some family ties with the Obrenovics, do not accidentally say that the man graduated from the commission whose chairman of the commission Milo Lompar, he is the president of the Dvori party, and Milo Lompar is the president of the political council of the same party. A man graduates in front of a member of his party. Everything's great, there's no plagiarism, there's no conflict of interest. It's all right, but you can't talk about it, you can't write about it. Bojan Pajtic says on Twitter everyone can come to the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad and read his doctorate. The thing is, he can't. He can't, I'm telling you he can't, and you make sure he can. It's being held like, the Holy Scriptures are a completely irrelevant book compared to Bojan Pitiæ's doctorate. There's no one right to see his doctorate. You can't have it, it doesn't exist. Has “Nin ” ever written about it? Is that what the "N1" was talking about? Is there ever a show recorded on that subject? It's not. Now Alexander Vukic is guilty of "Megatrend" University diplomas? So which one of you lectured there? Boris Tadic among other things. Half of those who are not in the O.R. now have a degree in "Megatrend" University. They introduced private colleges into the education system of the Republic of Serbia, not Aleksandar Vukic. But now it's all Alexander Wolf's fault. Now it's "in" to be against Alexander Wolfiche. Now it's great when you say - he needs to be shot in the back. Now it's great when you say - Sinisa Mali is a plagiarizer, so Nebojsa Stefanovic is a plagiarizer, so Jorvanka Tabakovic is a plagiarizer. I'm probably a plagiarizer, too. And all our diplomas suck. And we're all jerks, fools. We're going back to that old mantra again -- these advanceds, they're cartilages, they don't know anything, they're stupid, they're idiots, etc. And those who ruined our country, which led the country to bankruptcy, which we didn't have in the 2012 budget, there was so much money that one half of the pension could have been paid, well, they're great. It's great that Dragan Gilas has made 600m euros and a few million euros in a few years. It's great that Vuk Jeremic was getting money from international mobsters, while he was chairman of the UN General Assembly. It's great when Bosko Obradovic comes in with motor saws in RTS. It's great where some lunatic calls for a rape of Anna Brnabic. It's great when they're wearing hangers in the terraces. We live in a perverse reality. What's good, it's like negative. What's pathological, what's sick, what's abnormal, what's illegal, it's represented as a European, as a democratic, as a civil culture. That's what I'm talking about. You may think of me as you wish, but this man has succeeded, along with Alexander Wolfich, to consolidate public finances. Nebojsa Stefanovic managed to bring down a crime rate he failed to bring down by any interior minister before him. The same Yorvanka Tabakovic, who will be screened in a N1 film about her doctorate, managed to keep the dinar stable for seven years. So it's not about Sinisha Malom, it's not about Nebojsa Stefanovic, it's not about Jorgenka Tabakovic. Everything good in Serbia needs to be destroyed. You need to take back the wheel of history. Serbia is due back in 2012. This is what those who stand behind Bosko Obradovic, behind Marinika Tepic, behind Dragan Djilas, behind Vuk Jeremic and similar ones. What would Serbia be leader in the Western Balkans region? What if we had a 4.4% growth rate? We better have a negative rate of minus 3.1. It's better to make two or three people rich than to manage to consolidate our financial system, so that we can raise salaries, pensions, hire new people, create new jobs, etc. This photograph is just one of the evidence of the debauchery of those who would like to return the wheel of history. And we're going to do everything we can to make sure that this wheel of history doesn't go back, but to go forward, to have more jobs, to have more factories, to have more investments, more money for wages, for pensions, for young people to stay in Serbia. Our message is not - point the sniper rifle at Boško Obradovića, Dragan Đilasa, shoot them in the back, rape Marinika Tepic, wear the gallows on the Terraces, etc. No, I don't. The election will be in March or April, please, gentlemen, to measure how strong we are in front of the people in the elections, not by racing who gets more bullets fired in the back. The civil war in Serbia ended in 1945. He who today, in 2019, calls for civil war in Serbia, and the front page of the NIN is an invitation to civil war, he serves the enemies of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64834	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Have you read anywhere or heard that I've been commenting on any question about making a doctorate of anyone? I was in the commissions of all agricultural and economic colleges in Serbia, and more widely, I was in the boards of geography, I was in the commission of the Military Academy, and a mentor, and I experienced a great burden three times in my life. The first time I pleaded against, as the only member of the commission, a positive assessment of the doctorate, due to a methodological error, which is also an essential mistake, because current prices, accounted for indexes based on current prices and made the conclusions contrary to logic, common sense. I asked him to get those seven sides out of the doctorate, to transfer the doctorate, or to tear it apart, and to throw it out. The second time - when I discovered the plagiarism to the candidate who reported dissertation in our university, I was a member of the commission, I wasn't a mentor and the candidate pulled that dissertation. The third time - when I... (Marian Risticevic throws out of town. I really don't see any reason for this tossing to be. There's one verse here you should say-- let me tell you, good man, you're not. But let's continue this now. So again, please don't bring me into contact with any other person. I didn't do anything except rebel against GMOs, except rebel against the demarcation of KIM, except say that farmers and pensioners were robbed. Please, here's your data. The Minister of Agriculture signed in two years that it was below 3%. As for your insinuation to me, you are not my priest. I have another priest. And if anyone should feel offended here, on a national matter, that's what I should feel, because I'm out of here, out of this room, for a picture of the Blue Grave. And because of four times I asked all the MPs to pay tribute in a moment of silence to the millions and 260,000 who died in World War I. And only after four times, can you look at the footage of all the congregations, the fifth time I entered the picture. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Chevarlich, bring the end. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64836	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64837	Art. 104 and 107. I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, because by who knows which time you gave MP Ševarlic the replica, and he really does not adhere to the provisions of Article 104, and he is taking advantage of the opportunity to talk about everything, except the questions asked by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and that is whether he is as someone who is an MP thanks to the votes received by the Democratic Party of Serbia - Dveri list, he is on the list and so entered parliament. He did not enter parliament as a person who is now saying something to us and assures us that he does not have such political commitment as Bosko Obradovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and similar to them. He answered everything. Here, we heard that and he's not our priest and he's a farmer and he's got some kind of contract that completely confused us because no one knows anything about that contract, with the SDPR, so he decided not to talk about it. He did not respond how is it possible that today, in the 21st century, in a democratic state, in the centre of Europe, newspapers with headlines promoting the assassination of the president of a sovereign state, such as today is the Republic of Serbia? You say you don't see well. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you that front page, and you'll see well. The amount of words you have spoken does not mean anything, if you have not said what is crucial – do you, as a member of this policy option, support what is happening today in Serbia, and that is the hack of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic? I have nothing else to see on this cover except the intention of seeing a big sniper pointed at the heart of the president of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Milorad Dodik standing next to him. So, these aren't football stickers in Qatar, so let's stick the pictures of the football players in our home, but this is the front page of an influential weekly. Do you support or not support this? No one here has asked you whether you are for pensioners, nor do I, for farmers, whether you support or not the budget, but whether you are building on the policy of violence and promoting the murder of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. You get a replica to answer that, not to read us lessons. We don't get along politically. Well, I can't agree with Bosca Obradic who beat me here in the cabinet. It was an announcement of all the violence that followed. No one believed me from you. You were at that club then, you didn't say – I'm sorry, not once. You didn't tell me once. I'm sorry. I keep my mouth shut, and I don't expect any of it. Well, he beat me, it's very commendable for the democracy of this country. It is commendable for their sponsors, who want to force them into power in this country, by force, past the will of the citizens of this country. We have to have Bosko Obradovic. We can't have intellectuals, we can't have nice people, we can't have ordinary workers and peasants. We must have kabadiahs and thugs whose brains and hearts are not in Serbia, but are beyond the borders of this country. Just answer this question. Let the MP just answer this question – yes or no? Does it support what is happening today in Serbia, does it support such headlines, is this what we're saying a threat to freedom of the media? And Martinovic and I are going to hang out like Pedro anyway, as one of the MPs said when he was on his official trip to the Netherlands a few years ago. Whatever you do, you'll hang like Pedro. I memorized his sentence the first day of the trial. Whatever he does, in this country we can watch days and days, like these Turkish series, whether Sinisha Mali has one or the other doctorate. He's right, Martinovic, I personally asked him to find me a doctorate of Bojan Pajtic, because I couldn't find him myself at the Faculty of Law library in Novi Sad. He couldn't help me. He's teaching there. He couldn't help me. There's no doctorate. Why? Because, behold, there is an indication in the academic community that he prescribed a good portion of that doctorate from one of his colleagues from Zagreb. Anyone normal with any doubts wants to read both doctorate. No, Bojan Pajtic can't say anything about him. Whoever says something, here we are on social media, here we are in some of their electronic media, here we are on the front page. I'd better wake up in the morning and have some pretty patch and my brain, because in this country it's now forbidden from a part of the public that's extremely loud, there's so many of them, but they're awfully loud. It's forbidden to think you want to think. You have to think they serve you here. It's forbidden to ask a question. It's forbidden to seek another doctorate. I don't care about Cynthia's doctorate at all. I don't know that much about economics. I'm interested in Bojan Pitiæ's doctorate. I'm interested in magistrates and PhDs, the colleges of all those who teach us lessons. Aleksandra Jerkov, who is a Master of European Sciences, whatever that means, and now she's also a Ph.D. and she's always going to class and she's always got time to study, etc. I mean, when it's not in Venezuela, Bolivia or I don't know where, because it boasts here in your ranks to go there, to help develop democracy, obviously. I'm interested in, like, you doctorate and master's degree. Don't, Professor, twist the truth here. Someone pointed at you, I don't know what, you're the target, and I'm not the target, because I mean what I want to think. When did you worry about me, about my family? When did you worry when Bosko Obradovic and his colleagues beat me and pushed me there in the cabinet? When did you worry about Martinovic, who hangs out every day in individual electronic media broadcasting programs and is registered outside this country? When you commented on something on social networks that said we should be killed, painted, bullied as mayor of the capital, where, in Bolivia, right? That's right. When you reacted when it hurt the president of the state, when they started mass writing street supporters and street arrivals to the government in this country, when they wrote that they should kill him, it's good that he got sick, etc.? So when he's taking pictures with the dog, then he and the dog need to be killed, and I don't know what. When did you even face an abnormality that began to rule in this country? The effort, the great effort, the great financial basis behind Serbia's abnormal need to become normal, that the street should rule us who are elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That some can say whatever they want and that's good, and as soon as we say otherwise, we're for shooting, killing, arresting, we're declared by various media that we're dictators, that we can't mention any judge, any NGO, any member of any other party. I don't know what else to do as politicians, go to some central committee every morning and give me a list of what I can say and do and what I can't do that day. Just tell me where this central committee is, whether it's in this country or out of this country, that I know that every morning before we perform here in Parliament, we turn that phone or we meet the Secretary General of the Central Committee and give us directives, and praises and criticisms. That's what we're up against and that's what we're gonna fight. As long as we deal with politics and as long as the citizens of Serbia circle the name of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, we will fight this. Let them write tomorrow whatever they want about Alexander Martinovic, or they won't write tomorrow, it'll start the machine against you, Alexander, today. Here, I'll do the solidarity with him. Here we are, at least from the SNS, all of us are Alexander Martinovic at this point. Here, we don't need him, let them all here lead us all to Alexander Martinovic because we defend the President of the Republic of Serbia and we don't think this is an informative note, that this is an invitation to the lynch and murder of President Aleksandar Vukic. So let Pedro hang out tomorrow, if he's supposed to hang out, it's not a problem, but we're going to do this again tomorrow, because we don't think Serbia deserves this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64838	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, I was hoping that my colleague Ševarlic from the third attempt would at least condemn the call for a link and the murder of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, but apparently he did not take the third chance. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64839	Madam President, I don't see why calling one MP. Since we're pleading...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64840	You've got your colleague Chevarlich's word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64841	Take a break, print it out, give us one copy at a time, and call each of the MPs individually to plead. Why are you branding me? What does that look like? I could ask questions, too? Therefore, I will plead whenever I want and whenever I feel it is necessary. Why would he plead for something I don't even know what it is?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64842	I didn't understand this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I can't answer that. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64843	I'm almost sorry that I have to go back to such a trivial topic as the budget, and say my position on it, and I've been working very hard these days to talk only about the budget, not even to answer the calls to my own account, and let's just get involved in something that can be interesting, but not here and not on this subject. If we all agree that the budget is the most important thing in one year under normal circumstances, not wartime, debate and adoption of the National Assembly, then I think that we were all obliged to contribute to the seriousness and integrity of this topic within the limits of our capabilities. I don't think it was on all sides of this hall understood, and if I said in one of my previous presentations, expressed regret and physically looked back at what part of the opposition to make its remarks on that budget, I can't say I can't say that part of the ruling majority here used this topic and time to talk about everything else, something that might have been part of the press conference in the O.R., means in the lobby, not here in the plenary room. At least there were words, even commendation for the budget, and much more fought, fencing here with some inconspicuous opponent, with some imaginary opponent, and leading the polemics I say, which should be run either in the media or in the hall at press conferences. Anyway, I really don't think it's appropriate for someone to make a statement about the front page of a newspaper they don't see, or any front page, but I'm saying, within something else. But since I said this last few minutes, I'm going to say some final opinion on the budget, then I'm going to do it. There's been a lot of effort and a lot of arguments that I've heard this budget, as I said, is more electoral than developmental, but it's ultimately a cholastic dilemma, each like a glass sees half-empty, half-full. There are a lot of things that are paraded, which I have criticised as others, where this national stadium was just an example to me and a paradigm of this relationship of an unrealistic perception, or an unreal picture of the state of society, which can then get inside that unrealistic picture and too idyllic, pink images, and then you think about such parade and glamorous projects, for which there is no, I stress, neither economic nor sports nor any other justification. It was important to me, if it could have been heard from all of these other more perspectives and most interesting topics, that I had at least managed to achieve that at least a little less talked here in the budget about how Serbia was before bankruptcy before 2012. She wasn't in front of bankruptcy, but they were economic trends, they didn't get much better in the meantime. Also, we have been a little troubled, as much as possible, by this 500-euro average wage fama, drawing attention to the fact that this is an accounting and administrative achievement and the promise can be fulfilled, although with a delay of a few years, but that a large number of citizens do not receive that salary of 500 euros, which he also had to admit, or at least not to be denied by Mr. Mali. What we're not enough, or at least I'm not enough, and there I feel a little bit obliged to the public, at least this part that looks and monitors, with these intentions to explain this third name and myth about foreign investors, because if a man problems, if he stops talking about it, he's told right away you're against foreign investment, you're against it, that Serbia closes down, that I don't know what, North Korea. As we should talk about some unconstitutional moves, moves, when it comes to KiM and the current authorities, they say – you want war and you call for death and bloodshed. So, not if we say that the policy of relying on foreign investment and on this myth, the foreign investor is problematic and does not give results at the end, and that this is a bad continuity that this government is drawing with previous securities, including this expression – a national investment plan that we have already had and looked at in the performance of Mladjan Dinkic and his political group, then we are not enemies of the state or of this budget, we are just trying to draw attention to that if something doesn't work, it has proven multiplely that it does not only work in Serbia but also elsewhere, then maybe we should break it. Not all investments are the same, not all foreign investors are the same, far from it. When it comes to Smederev, Irony Smedereva, no one can dispute that and that's it, I think it's a good move. After all, I publicly commended this measure from this pay phone, but when it comes to Bor, I cannot share that enthusiasm even though it is the same Chinese investment. So, from case to case, it is necessary to approach it, not apriori, to shout – watch, bravo at all costs, not to take care of what is specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64844	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64845	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I'm building on this. The opposition's previous speakers missed the opportunity, and they believe that "Time", "Nin", "Today", are the newsletters of their parties. They didn't fence. I remember one of them said and wrote that we shouldn't be hanged on the terraces, hanged by patriots. So we should've been hanged somewhere on the sidelines so we wouldn't see each other because, by his judgment, we weren't patriot enough, but we were good enough to hang. There was an opportunity for him to correct his writings back then and to clearly fence from this, however, he missed it. Also, we had a chance to listen to what I call the youngest of Titus's escapades. So, from Tito to Dimitri Ljotićev, the youngest of Titus's Latvian, to define it that way. Imagine if I'm a fan of agriculture and villages. I entered politics, and first I advocated the return of property taken by communists, fields, property, agricultural land, forests, equipment and so on, which were taken during the confiscation because of the mandatory ransom, where agricultural products were driven to Albania. Well, they confiscated Serbian peasants. Imagine if I got into that party there for 60 years and a couple of years, I became Tito's youngest councilman, and then I became a Latvian, which I would be. I'd be Tito's youngest pet. So I could define it and then start to advocate agriculture, hosts, Serbs hosts and so on, and if I was in a party that took their property, confiscated and so on. Imagine that modification politically. What should I wear to my folk costume and celebrate Vidovday? Imagine, I'm celebrating Vidovday. Which Serb celebrates Vidovdan? Serbs mark with grief Vidovdan. And he comes to the Agriculture Committee and he says, "I have to go, I'm going to celebrate Vidovday." Now, that's what you get when Tito's your priest, when Dimitri Ljotic is your priest, then he says, no, I'm not. Wait a minute, who was the bearer of the list? How can I say, like 23 on the list, I have nothing to do with Alexander Wolfie? How about when he was the bearer of the list? As someone to whom Bosko Obradovic, Ljotic, was the bearer of the list, he can now come and say, so he cannot be fenced. He left Bosko Obradovic, but Bosko Obradovic did not come out of it, so he talks about migrants and so on. How am I going to explain to that man the difference between the agrarian budget and incentives, the level of incentives, because they are not only incentives of the agricultural budget, but also of the Veterinary Administration, the Forest Administration, the Land Administration, the Plant Protection Authority and so on, and the veterinary and phytosanitary review and so on. It's all in the agrarian budget. How to explain to someone who thinks it's better to suffer for the village than in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64846	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 49. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was really sad to hear these days instead of discussing the most important and important law, the law passed once a year in this House, listen to debates about individuals about affairs, and the public will and how they will appreciate it. We Serbian radicals insisted and insist that we stick to the debate on laws, given that not a small number of experts, experts from the economics field, are in the ruling majority. Did they get bit by this from Megatrend, I don't know, but we're sorry their knowledge and their creativity didn't come out. But what we're witnessing is that the increase in this budget compared to last year's budget, or this one if we're in 2019 has increased by 1.7%. It says that the respected inflation, the official inflation and only within inflation borders is an increased budget, and on the other hand it suggests that we are right, that this is not in the full sense the development budget, because, in order to be a developmental one, it should ultimately bring the result of the GDP increase, as the minister said, that the 5% increase is targeted and that this is maintained over a longer period, and in order to increase 5%, Mr Arsic knows, that the table of the invested dinars would achieve five dinars of new value, you have to invest 25 dinars, so that we have only 19% invested here and not 25%. This is one of the evidence, not for reasons, we are not saying that we would now dispute Serbia's progress, but when you talk about investment, when you talk about the construction of highways, gentlemen, you owe Serbia additionally, with a direct agreement on the contractor's loan coming here. You unfavorable spend money by hiring Bechtel, by borrowing Serbia and credit, and then giving Bechtel money, throwing that money away. As far as pensions are concerned, you will have to return what you took, as well as everything you return, which makes you Europe, so will that. As far as farmers are concerned, no progress has been made, so the following year, according to our Serbian radicals, will bring nothing epochal in the sense that they will live better or that there will be an enormously higher standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-27-0.u64848	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 28th November 2019, starting at 9.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. This is what we'd do today's work.
