ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66297	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, today I would like to use the parliamentary right of 287. The Rules of Procedure drew attention to a particular social, social, and health problem. These are people with autism, their position and the protection that society must provide in this socially exclusive group, because even according to the European Parliament and the UN's assessment at the global level of people with autism are one of the most endangered groups. If the information is known that a child with autism is born in every 58 children in the world, then it is clear how big and important the matter is. In that sense, every society, including ours, needs to find a system solution that would improve the position of people with autism and enable better social protection. Official figures on the number of people with autism in Serbia are not known, but associations of parents of children with autism mention a figure of about 70,000 people suffering from this disease. Parents' associations with autism are the most active segment of society, as they struggle to get their children adequate social protection. There is still not enough capacity in Serbia for the social and health care of these people, so far there are only two specialised institutions, one in Zemun and one in Sapac, and there is also not enough for a living and working facility with these people, and limiting factors and the fact that only persons under 26 can be admitted to the living room. The problem is that even the Health Care Act does not recognise the need for parents of children with autism, as gravely ill, to receive the right to stay in sick care at 100%, which should certainly be resolved by amendments to the law. Also, a special problem is single - parent families who take care of their own children. It's a very common case that one of the parents of children with autism leaves the family, so the other parent has to take care of his own child and can't work. The proposal of our parliamentary group that we have repeated several times was that these single parents, from the moment the diagnosis of autism is determined by the right to monthly compensation at least at the level of minimum earnings, because other than the right to other people's care, many of these families do not have other incomes. Because of the weight of this problem, the Ministry of Health has an obligation to create a national registry of people with autism. That's what the Minister of Health announced. This register is necessary in order to know the exact number of people with autism and make a strategy to determine the needs of those persons, how to systematically respond to them in order to improve their social, social and health status. These persons were also represented by the Citizens' Protector on April 2nd of the World Day by people with autism. In this regard, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncar, when the end of the national register of people with autism is expected and is it planned to create some strategic document to improve the position of people with autism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66298	Thank you, Mrs. Bukvich. The word is Mr. Alexander Stevanović. (Alexander Seselj: How did he, I applied first? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66299	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sure you'll all have a chance to talk, if you want to talk before, I don't mind, it's all right. So the message group will have two questions this day. The first question is referred to, as it would say, its kind of "delivira yunit", as it refers to the address of the Ministry of Information and Culture, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the state can perform different functions and that is not disputed. If there is any disagreement within each parliament, what exactly is the state to do. Now those of us who are a little more modern now, in the center, freelancing, would imagine that many functions, the state doesn't have to work. In extreme cases, we can even imagine that the state is not dealing with anything other than criminal courts, protecting private property, protecting against attacks from the field, although it can, say, as Iceland did. Many functions of the state don't have to work. Tomorrow we can adopt other people's money, we don't have to have our own, but one function of the state must always work, it's the protection of private property rights, and one of the basic private ownership rights is life. The right to life comes from owning ourselves. In order to enjoy this right of the state, we need to provide one key thing, which is protection against infectious diseases. In Serbia, a practice that is even transmitted and some of the people's sovereignty in public media has been brought to life by some people's media to vaccinate and vaccination as the basic way of protection against infectious diseases that leave serious consequences and can leave deadly consequences in some cases, knowingly spread panic that vaccines produced by the world's best multinational companies, which would suffer costs measured in hundreds of billions of euros when proven anywhere in the world that these vaccines are not adequate, in Serbia is spreading propaganda that through the process of vaccination in fact they are spreading some other types of diseases, that these vaccines have harmful ingredients and that they are in general undermining the process of immunisation of the population, which would not be a terrible that there is not one basic constant, which is that all people can't be immunized by vaccines and that one way that these people are just to protect themselves rightly being closer to 100% if possible. So my question is, aside from punishing parents who don't bring their children into vaccination, what does the Ministry of Information intend to do, which has the instruments to inform citizens that vaccines of multinational corporations are very reliable, that they are given worldwide, and what are the consequences of rejection of immunisation both for their children and for society in general? The same question concerns the MUP - is it planning to launch investigations and also for the Ministry of Health what does it think it is to do that their efforts are not undermined in the Republic of Serbia? We will always defend freedom of speech, because freedom of speech is only limited when you can produce objectively possibly bad consequences for the group that is the victim of your freedom of speech. The second issue of the Modern Serbian Party is addressed to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. At this point, Serbia has finally become aware of what our constant has been for decades, which is to breathe the air of desperate quality during the winter period. It's a problem that can't be solved in seven days, ten days, seven months or ten years, but what we can do is start to solve these problems. One of the basic ways and fundamental allies in our solving of the problem is the European pathway of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the opening of chapters relating to the protection of the environment. Analyzing relevant documents available to the public on the website of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or the Office for European Integration, or the Ministry of European Integration, we have come to the conclusion that the process in this area is late in Serbia, so my question is when will Serbia get a negotiating position in this chapter, what transitional periods are we planning and what are the reasons for the delays? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66300	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Now the word is Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for more than a year, temporary authorities in Pristina have introduced a goods taxi regime coming from central Serbia and BiH. We experienced this here as a major blow to the survival of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, which we certainly did, but then we had a variety of plans that the state would react to, so Mrs. Brnabic said she would wait 90 days for it to expire to appeal to CEFTA, that CEFTA would decide the nature of these taxes, whether it should be done, and it was a year ago. So, what's our position right now? What have we done in the past year to solve this problem, to help Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija? We could see that the consequences of these taxis and shortages of drugs and food shortages, as well as of all other products in Kosovo and Metohija, were affected only by the Serb people and the Serb community living there. We had a chance to hear a big turn in our foreign policy. We are now committed to forming and joining Serbia into little Schengen. So, not in the EU anymore, but in little Shengeg, the union of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. Did we seriously discuss this, did we seriously consider it or did the ruling majority in the Assembly, the SNS, the SPS and other parties who support the government and have only the task of justifying what President Vukic's idea is, without entering the issue? So, Alexander Vukic announces something, and then everyone supports it, like it's the best and most brilliant idea in the world. Besides, at the end of this month, if we are together at the same table with representatives of the terrorist government in Pristina and thus recognise Kosovo, that is. Kosovo's republic as an independent state, we are doing something against what is the official policy of this government, which is to preserve Kosovo and the Metohija in Serbia. We see that even after the adoption of the Brussels agreements, when we submitted to the Constitutional Court these agreements and when the Constitutional Court said that these agreements were political, although they produced legal consequences seen in the abolition of all Serbian institutions in northern Kosovo, we see Mr Mark Đuric, head of the Kosovo and Metohija Office, that he had significant respect for the Kosovo constitution, and we saw that when Albin Kurti, the current leader of these Kosovo Albanians, said he did not need a Serbian list in the government. The Serbian list, these are representatives of the Serbian government in Kosovo and Metohija. So Marko Djuric says that unless the Serb list is in the Kosovo government, it will not be under the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo. Is it possible that one official of the ruling party, a government official, is more concerned about respecting the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo than the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Then we also saw that this evil Kurti is not so mean in fact, because Marko Djuric is holding regular meetings with their representatives in Tirana. So, what's going on? Is this Kurti really as we can see him from a statement by Mark Djuric, from writing a press that imitates the government of the Republic of Serbia, or is this Kurti that Marko Djuric can talk to about who knows what and we had a chance to see it? So, a clear orientation regarding the Kosovo policy of this government should be to preserve Kosovo within Serbia, within Serbia's borders, and the latest acts, so the last things that the officials of this government are doing are not in that direction and as far as little Schengen is concerned and as far as these taxis are concerned, and as far as these other statements are concerned. I ask you to finally talk about it, to see what Serbia's priorities are, not to declare one day, and the other day, no one knows what the government's position is or any of the government's officials in Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66302	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Anyone else answer for a word from the authorized representatives? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66303	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I would first point out that today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day, so it's very important because we're all the same here in Serbia, and in Germany, and in England, and so it has to be. I'd like to ask a few questions now. I always speak from the work of local self-government that is small, undeveloped, mountain-mounted areas. We are witnessing that during the period of 15, 20, 30 years ago, the largest number of our local self-governments, city waterways, municipal water lines, rural water pipelines from part of the self-delivery, from part of the budget of local self-government where citizens and armies participated and this was done at the time in the best way, but a large number of these pipelines were built out of asbestos pipes. One of those municipalities where such a water line was built back in the 1970s and 1980s was the municipality of Svrljig. So it was done in the surrounding municipalities, where these asbestos tubes are now quite harmful in some cases. I would ask the competent Ministry of Infrastructure or local self-government, is there any possibility that these asbestos pipes in our local self-governments, where they exist, and I believe, in the largest number of our municipalities and cities, are not changed everywhere, is there a possibility now that, in the announcement of our President Alexander Vukic, we have the opportunity and the obligation to prepare all these local self-government projects, therefore, through a National Investment Plan that plans to solve the problem in all parts of the infrastructure, are these roads, is it water, is it sewage, is it electricity, is it electricity, is it electricity or the Internet, that it will be solved through that of our National Investment Plan? My question is because these asbestos tubes are under question. By the way, our community, where I come from, from Svrlig, we've changed you most of the time. There may be a quarter of those pipes left. By having more needs to change in our villages, where people from our self-indulgence did it, where we as local self-government through the community programme, through a programme of directorship that used to be, given, the village was given one dinar, the municipality gave five dinars, thus changing and restoring, reconstructed water lines. We also have a law that was passed last year, that the waterways of the village return to jurisdiction, to be in the jurisdiction of the municipality. Believe me, the largest number of local self-governments are not able to take over just like that, our rural waterways that have run long because of the inability to maintain, because we are witnessing that the largest number of these small local self-governments that are devastated, undeveloped in mountainous and mountainous areas have very modest budgets, budgets that are done in what is said, when done domestically, then a lot of things can be done, but now I am sure that through the National Investment Plan we will have the opportunity to solve all these problems and solve water supply in all of our municipalities, to solve the water supply problem in our villages. I'm sure it'll give a great boost to our people who live there to feel more important, because we're witnessing a lot of problems. In addition to what I just said, water supply, these asbestos pipes that are still present, there are many more problems that we will solve through the NIP, through the competent ministries, and we will normally resolve from the budget of local self-government. One of the things for me as a man who lives in such a small municipality is that problems are being solved in our villages, that together through the programme and local self-government, but also through the NIP programme, and at the request of local self-government, we will also have an obligation to change in our rural areas those water pipes that are in very poor condition. It's very important to get into the low-voltage network process that I've talked about more than once, because the big problem in these environments and that low-voltage network that went on, where it's less voltage than it's allowed, and we're witnesses, that's what I'm always saying, that our people living in the country, live on the village and on agriculture, are very regularly paid for as far as electricity is concerned, and there's very rarely that someone has a lack of electricity debt, a lack of taxes. And that's why it would be good to get into the process of solving our agricultural producers' problems as soon as possible, our undeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66304	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66305	Thank you. My question goes to Mr. Djordjevic's address, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Social and Combat Affairs, and there is also one segment concerning the Prime Minister, including the President of the Republic. So, for several weeks now, a group, not such a small group, wartime military invalids and war fighters from the 1990s protest, demonstrates here in the park between the presidency building and the National Assembly. I didn't mean to get involved in it on purpose. I know that matter is sensitive, I know that there are more of these associations and I have no intention of arbitration, but I appeal primarily to the competent ministry and to the minister, and then to the government, that simply when there is time for various curtsies and murts, for a variety of more or less well-intentioned or unfavorable travelers of the intentional and when there is time for reception, I don't know, Shreder, socializing and chatting with Clinton, and then when he was no longer in office, when Tony Blair, the infamous Prime Minister of Great Britain, at the time of the bombing, or aggression in Serbia in 1999, and when he was in some dim capacity, if he wasn't now in the capacity of advisers in the Serbian government, let's find time to admit these people, too, to hear their torment. So, without prejudgeing the solution, without prejudge in advance, without putting it on either side, I think simply these people deserve at least to hear their voice, and I, in particular, expect from the ministry and demand notice of what they are looking for and why they are and whether they are their demands, in what respect they are fulfilling or not. So this is a concrete requirement from the Ministry of Labour, and I expect from these other most important institutions in the country, that is, I only appeal to them to find time and to receive these people, because, I say, it is the least that can be done to them for everything they have done for this country, and that is to show them respect and openly tell them whether or not what is feasible, and what is possibly not fulfilled and for what reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66306	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word now has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66307	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the Prosecutor's Office, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, what will be done about the attempted violent incursion of the most legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, in the National Assembly? What do they intend to do against Bosko Obradovic, a convicted bully, a lunatic, as they call him themselves? When will this violence in Serbia stop and when will the institutions in Serbia finally take action against such lunatics? In order for violence in Serbia not to continue to flare and spread, it is necessary for someone to respond, to put an end to the taking of the poles, to the saws, to hang, to calls for murders, to the front page where the president of the Republic draws a target at the head, to tell lies in their media, especially in the daily newspaper "Today" that is full. Here, and today's front page, full of disgusting lies about Branko Stefanovic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Aleksandr Vukic, his brother Andrej. These are all calls for violence and the liquidation of political inexperiences. In Serbia, it must be stopped once. We had the opportunity to see in Serbia that such things were tragically over. When we were silent about what was being published in the media against political insinuators, we had tragedies. Serbia doesn't need tragedy today, because we have seen the tragedies of the previous, from 2000 to 2012 and too much. Of the tragic privatisations, the theft of money from Serbian citizens, the export of money, the pumping of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, suspicious contracts, suspicious projects. To all of this, here is the attempt by Dragan Djilas and Marinika Cobana Tepic to deceive us with their tweets that they, in fact, are somehow ashamed of what this lunatic Bosko Obradović is doing. If they were to condemn it, they'd have driven such a wretch out of that alliance of theirs. But they're actually inciting it and trying to fool citizens about how they're doing some kind of peaceful protest, and we remember, here, getting into RTS, that all citizens had a chance to see what it looked like. They broke in with a saw, savaged, cursed people, threatened journalists that they had to appear in the RTS log, that they would prevent the arrival of the President of the Republic from hosting at the time on RTS. Not one of these calls for violence, violence in both the RTS and the Assembly building, and the Serbian presidency's blockade, the prosecution has not responded. I wonder why. Why isn't he responding? Maybe because these same people were setting them up, they have to pay them back politically for it today. But I guess there's some debt to your own country, to the children who live in this country. So these from “1 out of 5 million” also falsely said – we don’t need violence, and they never said don’t come to our meetings. No, they're all welcome to do violence, to scream in the streets, to beat the unthinking, to attack their political opponents. That's what Serbia needs to stop already. We showed, SNS and Alexander Vucic, maximum tolerance, democracy. Walk as long as you want, don't commit violence. Look at those who constantly refer to the laws, to the Constitution, and I don't know what, and their own gatherings, they say, we won't report. They don't want to follow the laws ever. The laws only suit them when they need to tell lies, and then when they have to show that they care about the law and the Constitution, then they can break it. So they call for a new kind of violence, a civil war in Serbia, by making an emergency, so that elections can be postponed, which is impossible. There's no delay in the choice. Serbia will respect the Constitution, the laws Serbia has, we will talk, we will negotiate, we will bring new laws, we will improve electoral conditions, but you can't threaten, so you can say – if you don't meet something, I will break into the Assembly, as announced by this lunatic Bosko Obradovic, said – if you don't meet my conditions, I will be forced into the Assembly next time, so you will see how strong I am. It's a common mouse, a common mouse, one tow and a bully. Such men must be found behind bars. What example do they set for these alleged students from their alliance and young people? What kind of example do they set? An example of taking a national flag and breaking into the Serbian Parliament. That can't be an example to our children. Is the example of Alexander Vukic's policy, which opens jobs, which allows young people to school, to live better, bigger salaries, better pensions, better living conditions? It is a policy and it is an example that we give to the citizens of Serbia and it is a very clear difference between us. All it takes is for the prosecution to react, the authorities to react, to stop such phenomena and those individuals once before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66308	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of the National MP Stefan Miladanovic. We continue the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 to 5 of the agenda, according to the order of application for a word. We'll wait a few minutes for the minister to come in with his associates. We're going back to work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings were called to be attended by ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have Mr Branko Ruzic, Minister of State and Local Self-Government. I welcome him to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska. He's not here. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66309	Thank you. Dear ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are facing us today a set of laws that are certainly aimed at improving the electoral process. Democracy comes from the Greek word, and translation means the rule of the people. For SNS in the first place and in the focus of its policy and in the focus of its daily work it certainly is a people and certainly is an improvement in the quality of life of that people. The peace, stability and security that our President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the Government, has provided for this time, are certainly a guarantee of a successful election process. The Serbian Progressive Party has never run away, on the contrary, and is also interested in improving the democratic process, as the people participate in democratic elections, and the process should certainly be improved. All those recommendations proposed by the OSCE, proposed by the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, were adopted. All the recommendations have been made, and today we have these laws on the agenda. The promotion of the democratic process certainly came from the fact that the president of the National Assembly called for dialogue, because dialogue is the beginning of an election process improvement, she called for the dialogue of all political parties. Friday will take a round of that dialogue. But unfortunately, dialogue is not about all political parties, but only one part that focuses on the people and is about improving the democratic process. Certainly, the SNS with its representatives, with its active participation in these negotiations and talks, is interested in the best conditions of the democratic process. They will now be the best of all previous conditions and, of course, citizens, as the sole judges of all of us, or political parties, in regular elections will be able to trust those most trusted, or those behind whom the results, behind whom the arguments behind which the truth stands, and that is the policy represented and led by our President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS policy. It is sad and embarrassing that on Saturday it happened at the door of the National Assembly, when he who continues the ideas of Ljotic, Bosko Obradovic, tried to break glass at the door of the National Assembly and violently enter the National Assembly. The flag, coat of arms and anthem are symbols of every state. The flag is a symbol of statehood and a symbol of identity. It's a shame what's been done. It is a shame for all of those citizens, and such is the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who believe in the Republic of Serbia and whose flag and coat of arms and anthem are both the most sacred and the most significant in terms of belonging and when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the flag attack on breaking the glass of the highest home in the Republic of Serbia, which is the National Assembly, is also an invitation to the competent authorities, primarily the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to react, because Bosko Obradovic has in the most harsh way defiled the reputation and the Republic of Serbia using this most significant symbol, flag, to break glass. That, however, is not a great miracle, because of Boška Obradovic, as a continuation of the Ljotic idea, there is nothing else to be expected. He continued that idea and that policy which, during the occupation and World War II, led the children to the shooting of Kragujevac, seven thousand children, a German occupier, with the help of the domestic traitor of Ljotic, led to the shooting of innocent students of the Kragujevac High School and their professors. Of course, the spiral of Bosko Obradovic's violence under the auspices of the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas continues from day to day. The spiral of violence was also the incursion of Bosko Obradovic, Gilas supporters and other supporters of this yellow tycoon company in thousands of variants, different variants and different aggregate states, and in RTS, when they introduced motor saws. We know what a motor saw is for. The motor saws certainly did not belong in the RTS rooms, when they were also breaking the door, when they called for a lynch, for hanging, when they threatened to rape the president of the National Assembly, when they surrounded the presidency, when that same assistant, Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon and the largest robber of the Serb people, called for the truck to be set foot in front of the presidency. That's treasonous. It's cowardice. It's a reflection of the impotence. But that hysteria, that pathology, that hatred and that destruction must be stopped. Therefore, the Republic's competent authorities, primarily the Republic Public Prosecutor, must take matters into their own hands, i.e. they must respond to such phenomena in accordance with the law. Because it's schizophrenic phenomena, it's crazy phenomena, it's pathology, it's pathological hatred for everything that's good. In fact, they are hitting on the best, on the statesman, on Alexander Vukic, the one who has recovered the Republic of Serbia, who is our President Aleksandar Vukic, who has made it possible to improve the quality of life for our citizens, on Alexander Vukic, who only has day-to-day work behind him, the results, which every day works solely in the interests of Serbia's citizens, not as a yellow, tycoon and robbery company, along with these Latvian helpers and other helpers, and, of course, against the interests of his people, as Gilas worked exclusively for his interests, riching in the coat of arms of the people and swallowing up 619m euros, just at a time when he exercised power, or was the mayor of Belgrade. It didn't happen again. Of course, I want to say that when it comes to the voter list, that he is now fully arranged, that every citizen has the right to see the voter's list. I must commend and connect the parent books born with the books of the deceased and never clearer, cleaner, more precise, was not a more detailed list, thanks to the work, precisely because of the dedication, precisely thanks to the application of the electronic administration, which enabled this connection of the parent books of the born, dead, the books of citizenship, etc. I also want to point out that unlike those whose only policy was corruption, based on corruption, the SNS has made significant moves in this regard. Since 1 March 2018, the higher courts have formed departments dealing exclusively with corruption. I would also like to stress that 700 judgments, including some prominent officials, have been passed in a year. What the SNS wants to send as a clear message, that there is no protection against the law, that all are equal under the law and that anyone who committed crime or any corrupt shop should be held accountable, no matter what political option it belonged to. Equality before law is one of the fundamental values of SNS. Of course, we will support these legal proposals, and the citizens in the regular elections will show who they trust. They will certainly believe the work and results, that is, the policy implemented and implemented on a daily basis by Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66310	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is Nemanja Radojevic. He's not present. ) Now the word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66311	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, the respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support these four laws that are on the agenda today. They aim to ensure equal conditions for all participants in the electoral process. However, election rules remain the same as in 2008, 2012 and conditions of the electoral process are improved. These laws also ensure transparency of the financing of the political process, which is very important. Furthermore, an election campaign is being redefined in the essence of words, but a ban on political entities to use the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of autonomous provinces and the budget of local self-government is also being introduced, as well as to use public resources to carry out their official duties. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have been surrounded these days by various foreign centres of power, supported by domestic under-breaths, which are constantly mudning the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his family, his closest associates, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Siniš Mali, Aleksandr Vulin, Aleksandr Martinovic, Vlado Orlic, Maja Gojkovic and others. Their common goal is to separate these associates from the President of the Republic and, normally, bring down the President of the Republic. Dear citizens, this film will not be seen. Dear People's MPs, in us Serbs there are a number of scientists and historians, though few, whose scientific truth is above all and who will certainly not give in to the impact of the largest countries of the West and the United States when it comes to scientific truth and who at all costs will expose war lies and bribery by the United States and Western allies, including in the case of Racak that is currently in place these days. President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic made up the inconclusive truth when he said, I quote, that Walker invented that Serbs committed a crime in Račka, which was due to the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a quote, and that Walker, I quote, the world hohstappler and the fraud, was finished. Last night we heard from RTS and objections to these claims. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have already proven this, and this is what the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, knows very well, unlike those of the Alliance for Serbia, and there is no research finding on Račka that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has not read it unlike those of the Alliance for Serbia. For a short period of time, I will quote only two sources, and that foreign implementation, on purpose, I will not do domestically, so as not to say that I am subjective, which confirms the words of President Aleksandr Vukic. A German newspaper, "Berliner Teatung", claims that Racak was a fictional, or US and Mr. Walker's setup. This paper managed to find the report of Helena Rant's autopsy led by a Finnish team of experts wanted for a year. I have to say that today is the taboo report and that there were only 60 pages in public and that one part of the press, including this German journalist. Ranta failed to publish an autopsy report in general, whoever said she was, because she was under terrible political pressure not to, and she confessed. The German newspaper "Berliner Teatung" argues, since he had insight into this report, especially on the 60 pages of the final, that only one body had wounds that could have been caused by shooting at close range, i.e. at the execution. That's what this esteemed list says. According to another source, one French journalist, and that's what Diane Johnston informs us about, that the viewers know who it's about, is an American researcher, otherwise her father was a consultant at the Pentagon. She says - the truth is that he was in Račka on the day of his alleged execution, that journalist, and that he found all four wounded persons on his own, but nothing like mass killing. It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, meanwhile, Hashim Thaci, who led the infamous UCK, said, according to Diana Johnston, there were many victims, but they also had Serbs. It's a finished quote. Specifies this German list. In 2000, March 14th. Thaci admitted an interview with the BBC on 24 March 2000, that, I quote, a large group of KLAs worked in Račka and that many soldiers lost their lives in battle with the Yugoslav forces. It's a finished quote. The BBC adds, I quote, that the UCK deliberately killed Albanian peasants to gain the sympathy of the West. It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Republic of Serbia, and the infamous Madeline Albright have admitted in the BBC program that, I quote, the incident in Račka demanded preparation and that he was revived in order to pressure European allies to intervene. It's a finished quote. Says dr. Peter Bane in one of his scientific papers. Diana Johnston says, quote - Helena Ranta in June 2000 said, pay attention, MPs, respected citizens, that there were no signs of execution and that they were brought from other locations and that NATO classified her final report. It's a finished quote. Diana Johnston, in the book “Suludi Cruises, ” in 2005, page 310. Dear People's MPs, Walker is indeed, not only said the President of the Republic, the white-world hohstappler and a fraud, but also a white-world bastard and a fraud. Why? He didn't just set up the duck. He saw in Central America the pretty creepy things he put in Račka, which were committed by forces, actually the forces that he was helping on behalf of his government. Second, in Salvador and Honduras in the 1970s and 1980s, Walker, among other things, organized false humanitarian operations, which served as a cover for the delivery of arms and ammunition and groceries to contrasters, hired mercenaries who broke into Nicaragua. Dear Vice President, Walker worked for the Hondurasn army that formed the so-called "Honduras". Dozens of deaths, which took out about 200 politically suspected students and working leaders. Finally, as an ambassador to the United States of Salvador, Walker found excuses for the Tlactal Battalion of that country, dressed in the U.S., consisted mostly of graduate students by the ill-known schools of the two Americas, who in the early morning of 16 November 1986, raided a student dormitory at the University of Central America and pulled six Jesuit priests out of their beds and spilled their brains with powerful rifles from close proximity, as they did in Račko, before killing their cook and her 15-year-old daughter in the same way. That's what this Walker guy did in Rack. Walker immediately expressed his condolences, behold the miracles, the assassin's commander, Chief of Staff of the Salvadoran Army, Mr. Ren Emile Pons. The subterfuges or inventions in Račka directly led to Rambuje, the ultimatum of Washington to Serbia, and to the bombing of our country by NATO villains. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the villain Clinton married his daughter in May 2010 and he said, quote - my daughter is happy and I cannot be happier. It's a finished quote. He proudly said Clinton. In his enthusiasm for immeasurable happiness, those unfortunate Serbian mothers and fathers in Serbia and Republika Srpska, Croatia and around the world, whose daughters would never stand before the mother, as his fascist missiles cut them to pieces. He should have remembered the mother of little Milice Rakic, whose daughter would never stand in front of the mothermaker. I'm sure Clinton, like Walker, can't sleep if they're human beings, because their missiles have turned black into many families around the world. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, have again appeared on the sidelines of the Alliance for Serbia, Prof. Dr. Dubravka Stojanovic, Marinika Tepic, known as the flyers. Why? In the evening he lies in bed in one party, and wakes up in the morning in the other party, otherwise the electric rabbit Vuk Jeremic. Dubravka Stojanovic lies about President Vukic again, and the Republic of Serbia. The fairy-tale said, quote, that the gift of King Milan's rifle to President Aleksandr Vukic is a sign of mistrust in Vucic's statement of Serbian-Russian relations. It's a finished quote. Historians and citizens of the Republic of Serbia are shocked by her statement. Her statement is a reflection of the elementary ignorance that social relations have been in the past eight years, but also museums as auxiliary historical sciences, so I recommend that she attends lectures in museumology, or it may be a reflection of hatred for Alexander Vukic and the Republic of Serbia. Dear Professor, how do you interpret the award of the Order of Alexander Vukic of Vladimir Putin, the Order of Alexander Nevsky? It is not the only pearl you have "treated" Serbian citizens. You said that, quote, Putin firmly interrupted Vuker's intention to kiss him, finished the quote and added – and that speaks of the tension of relations. If you were a historian, and you probably claim to be, or at least if you were a student of history, you would notice, a respected teacher, that Vladimir Vladimirović Putin was welcoming and kissing in the same way as Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and many other statesmen, but you will not see it or see it from the hatred that overshadowed your eyes and mind. It's not the pearl you broke in, it's that I quote, Russia is not a world power. I am not surprised, because you, the distinguished professor on February 17, 2004, said that Serbia, I quote, lost 700,000 inhabitants in the First World War, finished a quote, putting yourself in line for the forgers of Serbian history and the number of Serb victims such as Franjo Tudjman and Stjepan of Reason. You distinguished professor object to the rise of the monument to Serbian heroes Milan Tepic and Gavril Principe, who is for you a terrorist, a respected professor, it is written only in German and Austrian textbooks, do you know that? You're an esteemed professor, I quote -- that Serbia gives up KIM and Republika Srpska, completed a quote. And, not only that, but you're saying that I quote it, that Serbia's biggest problem that won wars is the final quote, which means we were supposed to be fascist losers. Do you know, dear professor, that the free spirit of the Serbian people and the victorious part of the Serbian national identity? You're the distinguished professor who said that, I quote, today in Serbia the same elites that made the war are in their interest to forget the responsibility, the quote is finished. Dear Professor, there is not a single eighth grade student, but God forbid, no student who doesn't know who made this war. You don't even agree with your masters from the West, whose interests you represent at the expense of your own people and state. You are officially, the distinguished professor of politics, but you represent us with other people's interests and politics of those who have waged war and past the Charter of the UN, and the constitution of their countries, bombed our country, and I hope yours too. You didn't answer, your distinguished teacher, even when your SZS public Branislav Trifunovic said on October 4, 2019 on the "round table", I underline, quote -- that with disgust, he rejects the Serbian flag and that various crimes are committed and that it is not his, the secession of the Serbian flag is a patriotic act. It wasn't, uh, respected acting citizens, and it wasn't even a dramatic text. Finally, the distinguished professor of your statement about the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Republic of Serbia, had nothing to do with politics or science. Instead of those fees for which you defile the President of the Republic and the State of Serbia, I recommend you to have an esteemed colleague, to get to work and write a textbook or you, a scientific paper, because we will all benefit from that. And remember, in the end, the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, is a great Serbian patriot, reformer and statesman, fortunately citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. History has already put it in place, and I hope it's yours, too, dear professor, and that your president, and if you claim he isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66312	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Now the word has Professor Zarko Obradovic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66313	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS on the laws under consideration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The amendments and additions to the laws discussed today by the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling coalition have shown readiness to advance the electoral process. This is not by chance because this readiness exists years ago, months ago, and especially from the moment the talks that were held since August of the month at the Faculty of Political Sciences, then organised by the Open Society Fund and the Faculty of Political Sciences and Parties that participated in these elections, and later, in talks under the auspices of European parliamentarians. The fact is that while the talks were held at the Faculty of Political Sciences, then there was dialogue. The fact is that all present political parties then expressed their view on certain issues, that we also discussed documents made by NGOs, where everyone had their own objections, suggestions. Someone was in favor, someone against, but there was a dialogue and there was a lot of useful things to hear. The fact is that dialogue was interrupted by part of the opposition the moment the Alliance for Serbia decided not to participate in further talks, although it was present until then. We've had one paradoxical situation ever since. We have a situation that a part of the ruling coalition's political parties and part of the opposition's parties are really constructively participating in these talks, making proposals, making statements about what is the subject of the talks. The ruling coalition, of course, I must mention here my colleagues from the SNS, have since the beginning made their proposals very concretely. We Socialists, together with JS, sent then 17 motions to organizers to improve electoral conditions on September 20th. Many of them have found themselves in the final documents, but unlike those of us who have shown willingness to talk and make concrete proposals, we have since mid-September had the other side or part of the other side that has entered into the realisation of its political decision, which is a boycott of the election. Then a logical question arises, you on the one hand improve the electoral process, on the other hand there are parties who want to boycott the elections and then cannot pull the line of equality between the two sides. It must be made clear who is for progress, who is for improving election processes, and who is for destruction, who is for violence. After all, you can see that. I think the Alliance for Serbia in all of its actions, but it is their right and it is their choice of political action, but the violence shown when it enters RTS or violence shown several days ago by trying to violently enter the Serbian Parliament has actually shown this destructive part of the opposition's party's behaviour, plus what is the reason for today's talks to improve election processes. I want to say that the government has made good moves, and indeed, it is the right time for the public to know that what all parties have discussed and who are discussing in the dialogue of the European Parliamentarians and parties in Serbia, that this has found its solution in the draft laws that are on the agenda today, but also in other documents that are in the government's jurisdiction. The fact is also very interesting to explain to the public, that all the laws relating to choice and are related to elections and to the financing of political parties, since there are mainly issues about the Law on the financing of political parties, issues related to REM activities and issues related to the Anti-Corruption Agency, but the fact is that all laws and all normative solutions were adopted in 2012 or earlier or early 2013, and there were no objections to their content. Of course, then the logical question is asked – then what is the problem? The problem is the desire of certain political parties to come to power without a choice, namely to provide the opposition with the best possible conditions for the elections, or to justify boycotting the election. I have to say that the material that we got for today's debate clearly shows that the objections or suggestions, call it whatever you want, or the OEPS proposals, the Human Rights Office, are, as I say, systematized from 2003 to 2017. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, this is the year 2019 and the logical question arises – if these documents or objections have stood since 2003, why has someone not done so so far? Of course, because he was comfortable with such a solution, he was not very interested in improving the electoral process, nor was he interested in the so - called election process. Democratisation, or any similar floscules used. What is important is that the ruling coalition has done much to improve the electoral process. In these laws that are on the agenda today, we have a very explicit solution to what we have discussed since September, the definition of an election campaign, the ban on using public resources in the election campaign, the verification of the spending of funds, the extension of the circle of the person who can initiate the procedure before the Anti-Corruption Agency, plus, of course, certain deadlines for checking and deciding, the alignment of text with NGOs, I will specifically say, the definition of public resources, criminal provisions for non-compliance, then the responsibility of the Director of Public Enterprises for the use of resources of public enterprises, criminal provisions for those directors for resolution and so on. All of these things I mentioned that Serbia's public would have met with one simple fact that there is a good will to advance the election process. We don't need any reason for anyone to say anything bad about Serbia. Serbia needs a peaceful atmosphere, Serbia needs elections, Serbia needs an atmosphere in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia will make a completely autonomous decision, eventually to give confidence to those political parties and individuals they want to do so. But when you look at all those remarks, suggestions, call them whatever you want, all the things we've heard in these conversations, all the things can come down to four sentences. First of all, he wants to ban Aleksandra Vukic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, from talking about all the positive results Serbia has achieved in the last five, six years. It wants to be banned from talking about open jobs in the coming companies, about the economic stability that has been achieved, about increasing the number of employees, about reducing deficits, about economic efficiency. He wants to ban the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, from talking about all the positive things that the government is doing. He wants to ban Hansel Dacic from talking about the 17th withdrawal of the so-called confession. Kosovo's independence. He just wants to limit the government's ability to do his job. And that story about the functional campaign, it's one of the biggest nonsense that could be heard during the conversation. In fact, even the authors of this idea, whether they were expressing themselves, whether through the views of individual NGOs, could not explain the details of the problem with the chosen public office holders. I am talking about elected public officials, because you have respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, one situation, that people have chosen by democratic means of choice, by the will of citizens, to perform a certain public function. That they have democratic capacity, and for years a campaign is constantly being led that there should be transparency in means of spending. Where you'll be more transparent than when the public function bearer comes out publicly, and we've done it and it's spent and it's spent so much, for this so much, the profit is that, we've done it for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here, in fact, the President of the Republic and other people and the Government are also trying to get away from participating in the elections in some way. We said, even in the talks that were held and the representatives of the European Parliament asked – wait, how do you think you do it? In all European countries in the world, it is quite logical, perfectly normal for public officials to participate in election campaigns. The second question is, how is their activity presented? This is already a second issue, but obviously these political sides are not interested, because they want current representatives of the government, public officials not to participate in the elections, to achieve some alleged equality, as if political life in Serbia began yesterday, as if everything had happened in the last two, three years. It should not be forgotten that we have a multiparty Serbia for 29 years. It should not be forgotten that the improvement of electoral conditions is a constant process, something new is constantly emerging. It should not be forgotten that we discussed some issues during both the 1990s and after 2000. Here, we're talking now and in 2019. It should not be forgotten that we will discuss it both next year and after the election and some next year. Conditions change. I must tell you that for me it was in a certain way very strange behavior of some who spoke – they should not allow a negative campaign, and that negative campaign did not bother them when the SPS was attacked, because the negative campaign was also the only kind of campaign against the SPS. It was a legitimate political tool at the time, and it was quite okay, because it guaranteed them a certain election success. The political party chooses its own way of addressing citizens, the political party chooses its own messages, citizens are there to assess and assess and make the final decision. There's no need to question the power of people's judgment at all. Or, the issue of campaigns, which in general, and I am glad that it is the ministry, i.e. the government, the ministry and Mr. Ruzic as minister, which the whole government has simply very precisely determined what is considered under the election campaign, because it was not yet precise. We asked for talks to be precise, because when there is a very precise definition of what an election campaign is, then there is no possibility that under the election campaign there can be something else. We were saying, is it logical to ban political parties from talking to citizens? It is their right to organise a mini gathering or invite citizens to gather together. Of course, everything within the law. I simply had the impression, as one of the participants of these talks, by the SPS, that certain NGOs were more concerned about providing the position of some political parties than about really improving the election process. Today, we change four laws and very precisely determine the rights and obligations and promote the electoral process. It should not be forgotten that REM is also doing its part of the job, that we will make a selection of new members, because it was part of the criticism in the talks. It should not be forgotten that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also elect members of the Supervisory Board. And it's part of a promotion of the electoral process. Speaking of improving the electoral process, I'll finally say something about some more things for the election process. We have one paradoxical situation here, that of us participating in the elections, is constantly asking the question -- what did you accept and is that enough to improve the election process? And those who boycott are not asked for anything, but it turns out that part of the Europarliamentaries actually represent their views. Don't ask for anything, we do, we propose, we adopt here in the Assembly, and the other side is silent, the other side wants to violently enter the Assembly, the other side is threatening the RTS saw, and that's quite democratic. It's not democratic, it's not fair, it's not correct, it's not democratic. That is what European parliamentarians should finally say to the public. It is their right to talk to, but it is not fair to divide political parties in Serbia into similar and inadequate, to those who are for something and for those who are not. For those who are for Serbia, they are present here. Those who are for something else or for personal interests, they are doing their job, we could see with an attempt to violently enter Serbia. It just has to be eliminated, and the public has to know about it. Because when we count all of this that we are talking about today, what the Assembly will adopt, when we mention REM, when we mention the Supervisory Board, and when we know what else the Ministry of State and local self-government will do, then we just see the capacity of everything the government has done. Mr. Ruzic is there, I also mentioned at meetings, as my colleagues, Mr. Martinovic and the others who participated in the talks, we also mentioned that we had never had a better voter list. Excuse me, if there is, in addition to the previous conditions, citizens' checks, just before the election, whether they are listed in the voter's list. Now there's a possibility that after the elections, someone will check whether, God forbid, someone has misused his electoral right. Where you're going to make more protection of electoral rights than it is. Not to mention the seven educations that the people in charge of the polling list had with the people in the State Department and local self-government. Not to mention the rulebook to be delivered tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. These are all things that improve the election campaign, but for some, it's not enough. It is obvious that it is seeking to reach a term in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia without a choice, either with a conducting decision or with some Lex speciality. It just won't work. The times of violence have passed, Serbia is a democratic country and we all need to understand that the National Assembly is the only place to talk. If you remember, a respected colleague and colleague, president of the National Assembly, a few months ago, made an invitation to speak, here in the Assembly. Some political parties have rejected it and it is their political right, but then it cannot be said there is no dialogue. There is no dialogue for those who do not want to participate in the dialogue. For those who want to participate in dialogue, dialogue and how there are and have positive solutions. That is why it is a great thing for Serbia, above all, but also for political parties, who participate in the talks, to know that the government of the Republic of Serbia has brought amendments and additions to the law, which has improved the electoral process, that in addition, the interior acts of the ministries have resolved a number of more issues, which are also related to the improvement of election processes. One word is that the government has done a lot of things, and of course there is time for other things to be done and for the government to be congratulated on. To others, who do not want to talk, who do not want to advance the election process, remains to explain to their voters why they boycott the elections and why they do not want to participate in the talks. That's their right, that's their thing, but for Serbia, it's important that the dialogue exists, that the electoral process is improved, that we follow all the legal and other fluids of the EU country, that we follow the values of a system of countries where multilateral systems exist for decades and centuries, simply that Serbia has solutions that are both examples in other countries and that we are not lagging behind, not by that basis for others. We should congratulate the government on these changes and additions, simply tell Serbia, it's up to you citizens to choose who you want. Election conditions are the same, as in other countries, please choose, so choose your best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66314	Thank you, Professor. I'll work it out. The word now has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66315	Thank you, chairman, respected Minister Ruzic, with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected to the Assembly from the SNS list, Alexander Vucic, and I represent the USS. Back in the year, two, and more in the conversation with people living in south-east Serbia, in hill-mounted areas, living in the territory of the city of Nis, Leskovec, Vranja, Zaječar, and beyond, I am talking, where it is seen in one part of us, here in the Assembly, which we do, because it is for the benefit of all citizens, every part of our Serbia, but on the other hand they have some critical things, so someone tells me why you represent, when you come from Srlig, and you say that's the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, and you don't say that your municipality is the poorest. I'm going to talk about it now, maybe it's not a place right now, but also people from Svrlig, from Bela Palanka, from Gadji's Han, from all these small areas, go to elections, vote, choose their representatives, whether they are in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or are in local self-government congregations, but these people go out and vote. The big thing is that we provide these people with the ability to vote in the best way, to vote for their best representatives. Whether it's representatives of SNS, SRS, USS or other parties, it's important that people can come out to vote, for everything to be the same. You all know, Minister Ruzic, voting lists are the best way done, a review of all voter lists has been made, but you all know that a large number of municipalities, such as my municipality, such as Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, Književac, Soko Banja and a large number of such municipalities, have problems having villages with less than 70/ 80 people. These people out there, they have no right to vote. These people can't vote in their village, but they have to go to vote in another village, some major centre. That's why these people don't have the right to go out and vote. That's what we need to talk about. I, as a MP and president of the USS, was not at these talks with people coming from the EU, with EU lawmakers, so I guess they didn't want to talk. I have a political option, a political party that was formed in 2009, we have over 55 committees in Serbia, but they have called on some representatives, groups of citizens and what I don't think has a part of the stake in any support. So be it, I think you need to hear the voice and those small parties, like the United Peasant Party, there are a lot of such parties present here in the Assembly. Once again, I will support a set of these laws, because I think we need to give support to vote for the best people and invite all people to participate in the vote and to go to the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66316	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Now the word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word is from a colleague named Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66317	Thank you. This set of laws which have come to the agenda in accordance with the agreement, i.e. the conclusions of this negotiation process or dialogue between the authorities and the opposition with the patronage or intervention of MPs or representatives of the European Parliament. So this isn't as routine a thing as it sounds and as it is represented here by colleagues from the ruling coalition. I mean, no matter what is presented as a liquid and routine thing, essentially a little bit of an extortional measure that they were aiming at, which is the result of this intervention of semi-successful, unsuccessful or whatever it is qualified to be. So, the European Parliament, the international institutions in what exists as a slow problem in the state of Serbia, that is, in the political life of the Serbian state. It's something that closes your eyes here. As far as these concrete measures and suggestions are concerned, I don't think they're bad, but they're mostly going towards precision, the nuances of certain things, and in that sense they're a positive step. But what they are definitely not, these are not measures that anyone, someone has decided to boycott, there is no help in it, or you won't answer it, whatever it is you suggested, but if someone seriously thinks and thinks seriously about going to the elections, and doubting the election process and its regularity, there are not enough elements here that will convince such a person here and in some way make him change his decision. I'm not going to go into technical details here, but I'm holding before me remarks, let's say, Serbia's Transparency, one of the intermediaries, on our part, was part of a group of NGOs, I'd say, with some exceptions mostly competent and mostly, I'm stressing mostly well-intentioned. Hence, between them is Transparency of Serbia, which estimated that these proposals do not meet or generally do not meet their requirements or what they considered a celery solution and which suggest what they have proposed several years ago. Therefore, preventing conflicts of interest also when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency and when it comes to public enterprises, and the possibilities of their abuse. What may only be positive in all of this is that this government has indirectly admitted that it is not brilliant and impeccable in the electoral process, that there are objections that have been placed on previous election cycles by international observers and our own authority has found some of these things and is now coming into contact with them. It's not enough just to say these are the laws in force, the laws adopted by predecessors, the previous authorities are in force. It's very important how these laws apply. Secondly, there is something to the atmosphere, to the political climate. I was talking here and it was kind of ignored or at least didn't realize the seriousness of the fact that the then head of the opposition in 2011, here, at the public service, and of course at all the media and live-service conferences, announced a protest, or rallying at the time of the 2011 SNS, and I was visiting, not with two, three of them that would match the conversation, hosted it in, say, one of the most visible political shows. After that, live in Dnevnik reported from a protest on February 5th, if I'm not mistaken, in 2011, the SNS. I mean, it was a different climate, and far from ideal. So these laws, or these changes, are a step in the right direction. I mean not enough, not because he won't force someone who doesn't want to go to the election, he says, and his political assessment, his gambling and his account that I don't share, by the way, be told, but I'm afraid, I'm talking about citizens right now, I'm not talking about political actors. You can make political actors one way or the other, and now I'm not going into ways, you can get them all out, but you can't get them to go to elections, I'm talking about citizens. So I think citizens should be offered something bigger. It's okay, but I take this as a starting point, as a first step, a sign of goodwill. If, on that, it remains, as I fear it will, then I don't think we'll have what should be a common goal, and yet it's more or less a satisfactory election process that no one will be able to put on, no objective, serious objections. That's what needs to be our common goal. We don't have to get along exactly around that red line, around the border where it becomes, when it's accomplished, but simply, we have to be aware. So let's not represent things like they're normal, liquid, routine, so now we're just perfecting electoral legislation. No, this is again an extortionary measure as a consequence of the fact that in the parliament, international owners presided over us in the Serbian Parliament, instead of talking to each other alone in a small room and before that even worse and uglier at the Faculty of Political Sciences, representatives of the NGO sector intervened and all responded, which I think is a little strange, and then when organised in the House of National Assembly, then not everyone responds, but meets on lobbys with representatives of the international community. But that's their problem, their assessment. What interests me as a MP is that the more well-intentioned on one side and on the other, we remove as many doubts as possible about the electoral process, and that doubt exists. So let's not go crazy, and let's not fool ourselves. There is doubt and mistrust, of course less with the representatives of the government, but even their sympathisers are not entirely sure it's all regular, and about the opposition's sympathisers we're not even talking about. They need to be cleared of suspicion. They need to be offered something bigger, more sound, something to convince them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66318	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66319	First, as regards these NGOs that participated in the whole process, they had the opportunity and took the opportunity to participate in the preparation of different solutions, including these legal proposals. Now, what they later come forward and say -- we want more -- that's a great answer to your question about who prepared this and who's behind this. So, we said it nicely. You want to be fair, you want to be correct, you make a joint proposal, and here it is. After someone's been looking over the bread cake, that's all there is. So we said, don't expect us to accept something that doesn't exist anywhere in the world, that people who do something in this country say -- here, we're not going to do anything for a year before the election, we're not going to go to work at all just to artificially create some kind of equality. There's no equality between people who work, they have a result to show, and it's normal to show it, and they're expected to show it, because they've made a promise, so they've fulfilled something that they've never been able to do, and I mean the former regime, to deliver any result, and they want to be equal in their incompetence. That's impossible. We won't do it and no one in the world does it. Transparency has dealt with this procedure years ago. Among other things, they made a report saying that the DS functional campaign, its regime, its president, its prime minister and its senior officials such as Dragan Gilas, increased some alleged activities 600 times before the election. That's what Transparency said, and it's nice that they recorded it, that people know that, how many people have been gathering these people on their so-called team. Protests – 50, 100, 200 souls, as was the case with Bosko Obradovic when he tried to break into the National Assembly three days ago. It's an indication of your relevance. They can never compare with Aleksandra Vukic in 2011 or 2012. He, in the capacity of one leader at that moment, is gathering the strongest parties in Serbia, their sources, the Gilassovs said, tens of thousands and perhaps 100,000 people. Can this be compared to the mindless Bosca Obradic, with a few dozen supporters, who themselves do not know what they will do next? It can't, the relevance isn't the same, but even when you know it, then consider that even such warlocks, Lutovci, Gilasi, whoever you want, go on television whenever they think of it. They call them on television with national frequencies, they call them on shock shows, they even host themselves, but that doesn't stop them from talking -- we've never been anywhere. Bosko Obradovic says and doesn't blink – for four years we haven't shown up anywhere, and you watch them defil each week in different studies. Lutovac, refuses one visit yesterday, another visit today and says - I'm not going anywhere, why, because I'm going to say tomorrow - there's not enough of me, I'm not showing up anywhere. It's not politics, it's distracting, and it's looking for alibis for your own incompetence and absolute awareness that you don't have the support of the people. As much as he's following you out on the street, you'll get so many votes tomorrow. It's a question for you, my brother, whether there's a censorship, not some victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66320	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66321	Last sentence. The atmosphere is important, we agree on that. Tell Gilas to spread it to others not to force the atmosphere of the lynch, not to force the atmosphere of violence, not to threaten people, not to beat them in the street and not to destroy the institutions and have done enough for the atmosphere, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66322	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66323	So, of course, I'm glad we agree at least in one thing, which is a positive assessment of the effectiveness of this Transparency Serbia and their findings and when we like them and when we don't like them. I know about this finding on the functional campaign, and it is not disputed that it is not the invention of the current government, but it is necessary to take more care of the recommendations, as I would say, professional and well-intentioned factors, even when we do not like them. I think there could be more hearing. As for what the central theme is actually here, I never thought it should be banned, I think it's a little offensive and as the representative of the opposition, Alexander Vukic to participate in the campaign. It seems to me that it's... It's one thing to restrict a functioning campaign, and the other to ban it, and I don't think anyone has touched it seriously, although an honest formulation, I know, in those demands, "One of the five million," but generally nobody meant it that way. Of course, it's up to the government to praise what she did and what she thinks she did, but it's up to the opposition to have the space to say what she thinks about it. This TV thing, where you can say it, is very relative. For months, it means, not for weeks, but months, it has been like the main enemy not so many oppositions, not these leaders you mention, but one cable TV, which, with the best will, if everyone turns on TV, can watch somewhere around 25% or 30% of Serbian citizens. Most people can't watch them. They fill somewhere around half the cable operator space, which is about half the total population. They keep waving at that devil called N1. People think there is someone eating children, sowing some hatred against Serbia. He's got an agenda, like some other TV, but come on, open up. That's my point, open the media with a national frequency of at least half as much as these media you're criticizing, open to power, and then let each of the representatives of the authorities participate, and Alexander Vukic and the ministers, in the campaign, praise and let them say what they have, but let the opposition, at least on about equal terms, say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66324	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66325	Article 107, violation of dignity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought my colleague Vukadinovic would talk about minority parties. He's a minority rights expert. As someone who was on the list of minority parties, I thought they would talk about the next election not to abuse minority parties, that all candidates on minority lists must be included in the voter list, minority voting lists, etc., that the founders of these parties should be listed on the voter list of minority parties for national councils, etc., so that there is no abuse that minorities do not remain unrepresented, that there are no false Vlachs, false Slovaks, etc., but I did not expect them to complain about the media. I remember these Tadic media very well. The opposition had Radio Focus and two rented hours on Copernicus. So it was until 2012, and everything else was his and Tadic's, including games of chance, etc. So the opposition had nothing. Today they're hooking because they have two unregistered opposition channels on number one, number two list on cable nets. Hook, and they have "Today", "Blic", "Time", NIN, targets etc. So they have media, but I can't make people read "Today", "Blic", "Time", NIN etc., I can't make people watch N1, Nova S etc. One more thing, Djordje Vukadinović, on RTS, counted, in the last year live on shows, was at least four times without a political party, neither leader nor most active, and count how many times I've been in the last 30 years – not once. There's so much about censorship, about the media, about freedom, etc. And, one more thing, that's the man who said we shouldn't be hanged in the terraces, that's where they hanged patriots, but somewhere else. So much for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66326	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Djordje Vukadinovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66327	Article 107(2) If there is a systematic violation of this assembly's dignity, then it's something that does here not now, today and not the most flagrant today, precisely my distinguished predecessor and is known as such. And in the ranks of the ruling coalition treats him like that, they just think that, well, that's useful because he's doing some jobs that others won't. So, the polemic, the replica, he could look for a replica and take the word. Citizens do not know, viewers generally do not know that there is, in fact, no replicas and very often because of that his interventions and directives and attacks remain unresponsive, because then whoever is called cannot respond because he would have to seek replication. So it's an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I really have no intention of answering it. One day, once on a show, we can deal with it. But, of course, I didn't visit four times, but three, but anyway, here, I'm satisfied, not complaining about my treatment. I've got all kinds of basics I can visit on. I'm saying that the opposition in general doesn't have a satisfactory treatment, and that's what I started to talk to Mr. Orlic about in one way, I'd say, a serious and competent way, but this is exactly the way the debate in the Assembly is disabling anyone who's saying something that makes us come to these branches, that's why there's no minority 2/3 of the hall here, and that's why international intermediaries need to mediate our dialogue and conversations between the authorities and the opposition. That's exactly the kind of thing, just the kind of discussion that Mr. Predicate was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66328	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. I think you and your colleague, Marian Rističević, have misused this institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You can look for replicas without any problems. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jorge Vukadinovic: No. ) Now the right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66329	We started a little while ago on the subject as much as anyone can, or can't tell the media what he wants to say, right? Mr. Risticevic is, for one, absolutely right – he can do much more than he could at our place when we were opposition and anyone from Gilas's camp and you who now have something, like you're building up, so here, like, you don't belong wherever he wants to go. It's not just about these TVs that belong to the dominant largest cable operator, it's about the National Service. Do you defile RTS whenever you want? Do you refuse to even come when it doesn't suit you? Lutovac says - I won't tonight, it's not the right climate in the studio, what he said, it doesn't suit me, I have something else to do, it's dinner time. He doesn't want to go to other televisions that have national frequencies. I can't remember if I've ever been on television on a duel show without any of you as a representative. He's right, Mr. Risticevic. You were with me on the show. I was on a show this morning with DS MP Radojcic Ken. Every time I visited, there were at least one or two representatives of your forces. You can participate so much that you even choose what suits you, what doesn't suit you, so go wherever you want, but you talk all the time - we're not anywhere, no, we're forbidden. As for Alexander Vukic, it's target number one, and don't think anyone's forgotten about it. In these famous, how many, 42 recommendations and six demands have been set up by your Đilas, Obradović and others, do you remember where Alexander Vukic is located, where his name is mentioned? Number one among the requirements and number one among the recommendations. So, the most important thing they have to say is that they're looking for both applications and recommendations, and that's to remind you, to ban Alexander Vukic from taking part in any political activity, and that's the essence of all their demands. The rest of this, so they don't even know what they've put on paper, they don't know what they're asking for, and it's not important at all. The most important thing of all is that, in some way, if possible, it removes Aleksandar Vukic, to ban him from participating in political life, because they know, they are aware, it is clear to the birds on the branch, they cannot defeat Alexander Vukic. There are no election conditions under which they could defeat Alexander Vukic, only to somehow allow them to be winners, so now they're over it and they're looking for it. We want to be forced and without a choice to be in power, to be in government, to be in public enterprises, but not to be in elections. So, what's on the subject of that atmosphere and climate the scariest? Which they are deeply aware is how things are. The wolf has the support of the people. If they can't stop him from dealing with politics, if they can't compete with his results, then are they willing to go and physically remove him and liquidate him? That's what we talk about when we talk about the media, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66330	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply, so Djordje Vukadinovic. (Jorge Vukadinovic: How? ) It's directly mentioned, like you, so we're all on our way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66331	I wasn't mentioned once, I was mentioned twice. Like this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, recently, several months ago, Djordje Vukadinovic visited RTS several times, I was invited to a show with him and with Mr. Canka. The show was called Questionnaire. The day before my show is at the request of the opposition, I don't even know if they're leaders, because this one doesn't even have a party, I've been denied the right to participate in the show. So I was kicked out of that show. So they just called me and said -- you know what, you can't participate, we're canceling you. He hasn't been canceled. I'm offering to resign if anything in the previous speech I said wasn't true. I'm going in a row. Was Mr. Vukadinovic the second on the list of the Vlach Party called "None of the Answers offered", yes or no? "Po" or "jo"? Yes or no? Did he get money from gambling without buying tickets during Tadic's rule? Did he visit four times live on RTS just for the last year or two days? I'm not once. Did he write on his Twitter account that we shouldn't be hanged on the terraces, hanged by patriots, because someone had previously threatened to hang us on the terraces? Did he want to be funny? Was that a morbid joke? Anyway, is it true or isn't it? Is it true that by 2012, the former opposition, the current government, had radio "Fox" and two hours of leased terms on the satellite channel or the Copernicus cable channel? "Jo", "po", "po" or "jo"? If it's not true what I was saying, I'm resigning. If true, that's the leader of the money that doesn't exist he resigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66332	Thank you, colleague Rističević. (Alexander Seselj: This is how we can get to Judgment Day.) Don't throw it away, Mr. Seselj, please. Now right to the replica, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66333	Please, calm down these who earn. So that's exactly what the problem is here. Things can be a subject, I haven't broken any laws, and I don't want to go down to the level of a respected gentleman, my predecessor. Otherwise, I could do this very well-founded story about "Zeka", about stock reserves, about fake peasants, about fake users of incentives and all kinds of other things and insubordinations, which is why, in fact, a respected predecessor of this kind of discussion and attack, not me, but anyone from the opposition who is at the moment, is actually buying his freedom. Even he doesn't even have a ankle and he's getting rid of the criminal charges that float over his head. By the way, he was the loudest and most gallant advocate of this DOS and the dossman and the "yellow octopus" and everything he's been talking about here for the last few years, which he's spitting about, what he's talking about, what he calls out, literally the hottest. There are witnesses here who can confirm it here in the O.R., as usual. Thus, the largest when yellow, or advanced, radicals, or then SPS and radicals were to be called. No one's gonna sit with him in the assembly, let alone sit on a TV show. Well, of course I won't be in the show with him, but I've never refused to host like the people he can talk to, even if he doesn't get along. As for Mr. Orlic, there's something to discuss, but I'd like to remind you of that visit, Mr. Orlic, that this guesting has been practically in your monologue all along, no matter who it was. Although, Mrs. Tepic was complicit in that, too, but you were the champion. So, it's not just a dialogue on the show, to come up and switch, literally nonstop speaking parallel and practicing this ability that everyone can exercise, and that citizens have no use for, parallel dialogue. As for the resources and media that stood at their disposal, it will not be that it was just a focus worked and I don't know what else a cable TV mentioned, there was much more of a resource standing there, and there was a Depeche "Vikilixa" and there was some other data that showed that even sponsored was this participation and this SNS treatment, which the opposition in Serbia had never had, as SNS had in recent years before it came to power. Let's wonder why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66334	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Right on the line, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we got one of the answers offered, what was the name of that Vlach party, none of the answers offered, the other candidate on that list was who? Now we've got an answer to another question, why am I censored? So, the gentleman is in such an opposition capacity that he could order in RTS that I could not participate with him, since I have a party, he does not, since these are the times of NGOs, etc., apparently he had some kind of advantage. As far as the fake peasant is concerned, the fake Vlachs think the peasants are also fake. Well, here, again I'm offering my resignation. If I don't have a farm property, if I don't have 24 acres of land along with my family, if I don't live in New Carlovci, Pregrevica 72, if all my property isn't in the New Carlovci, K.O. New Carlovci, I'm offering to resign, if not, that he resigns. I don't remember anything that the opposition had, except Radio Focus and two hours on Copernicus, that it had anything in the media before the 2012 elections. I just don't remember, but he didn't count either. I do not remember that “NIN” wrote very badly about Tadic, I do not remember that “Time” wrote very badly about Tadic, that it was written for the sake of the SNS and for the benefit of the opposition, I do not remember that “Today” did it, I do not remember that “Blic” did it, I do not remember that “Alo” gladly, I do not remember that “News” did it. I remember that DS was with Bogicevic trying to buy all those media. So it's not clear to me what's not true about what I've been saying, whether he got from games of chance, whether he was a fake Vlah, whether the opposition had what it had until 2012, whether he was on the show four times in two years, if I hadn't been live on RTS in 30 years, on information shows, whether it's true or not? If I'm lying, I'm resigning, but if what I'm saying is true, he denies that he resigns, otherwise he doesn't represent anyone here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66336	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The right to the replica has Vladimir Orlic, so Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66337	I'm so glad you remember, Mr. Vukadinovic, that we were on the show together. One of the most important impressions I'm wearing is that we've obviously come to at least one show that you'll remember and that you won't talk about afterwards, either you or Marinika Tepic or these other Gilasos that never happened. So we've established, hopefully together, that you've been on RTS in prime time. And let me remind you why this show is of particular importance to me. Because in it, it was a senseless lie, to remind you how and how much. With all the things you and them were saying, and the institutions were finely denied, and eventually every lie fell apart in a piece of steam. I especially care about anything that Marinika Tepic said then, come on to me, but in front of all of Serbia, she lies to the SNS that we burned books like Nazis, they lied, they planted someone from the SNS to work, and we were accused and repeated it several times. Do you remember what happened maybe 10 days later? Admitted and personally Dragan Djilas, he had to invite reporters to put aside the Miljuš, who organised it there and handled it and to admit it, lied to Marinika Tepic when she said they did not burn books, lied to Bastac bag when he said they did not burn those books. Milush was acting crazy himself, he says – no, I knew that we were on fire and yes, Dragan, it's true, we were on fire, our people were on fire, but I was simply, he said, no one asked, so I didn't make a statement. So these liars are on that show and in the days after that, and mostly at that press conference, they've admitted to what kind of liars they are, and the rest of you see if you want to participate in those lies, and then you get the same shame. As far as television is concerned, once again, Mr. Risticevic is absolutely right. He knows exactly who he is when, how many times he participated on RTS, which on tv. Here's your public service. You say you can't see your TV everywhere. Do you see this everywhere? Well, you can tell. Do you participate as much as you want? Take part, for God's sakes. As for your TV shows and your shows, you had your own show on Jeremic's TV, and now you have, I see, a commercial on Radulovic's. And what prevents you from saying whatever you want, as much as you want, day and night? So, so much for media freedom. We never had such conditions. But, you know what, we, and with what you've given us, have managed to win, because citizens' trust is gained, because it's voice-confirmed, and that's how it comes to power, so that those whose democracy is on the side. The last thing on the subject of the media, marketing of any kind. Dragan Gilas is not only known for controlling all the media, which he used them, but also used one to ten to resell a market space on them, 619m euros thus earning for himself and his companies. He's famous, since you mentioned "Wikilix," and because he confessed to the American ambassador – my policy, my promises, it's all marketing, there's nothing real about it, it's only for me to lie to the people to be in power. Well, you know, WikiLeaks is a very good source for you to see how and how much they lied to those proven liars who eventually have to admit they're liars, because they're no better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66338	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66339	As for that show, Mr. Orlic, everyone has their own impression, but I mean those who watched, the impression is that you spoke continuously and continuously through the other conversators. I did not participate, as did my colleague Obradovic, and I said what I could and arrived in those few minutes. As long as they're waving time and participation, yes, in the last two years I've been, in the last year and three times, four times in the last two years, five years ago, I wasn't live on RTS. Anyway, all right, there are some criteria by which this thing is chosen, determined. We can get into it or not, but the fact is that you've been visiting, Mr. Orlic, or your leader has been visiting alone. So, it's not the same as having you or any other forwarder, who's tasked with matching what the opposition's representative says, on the show to be alone and to explain what the concept is and what the opposition party's policy is, like Alexander Vucic had as leader, or one of the two leaders of the opposition, or SNS at that time. That's why I'm saying there was no such treatment. I am the first against being denied, banned, nor is it possible, of course, Alexander Vukic participates in the campaign. That doesn't mean anything to me. I don't want to be artificial or false about these people you mentioned, but I don't see why, although I can tell why you're always offering them and imposing them as leaders. These are people who have their own political path. I agree with them on some things. I don't agree with these things like breaking into RTS. That's what I said here, and some other stuff and some hepenses, which are scandalous and unacceptable to me, like it or not. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe they're right. The way this applies, even in this congregation, even today according to the opposition, shows that they may be right. They take exactly this kind of discussion and examples, not to say the examples, as we just saw, as key proof that they should not participate in the elections or in this assembly. I don't think that's the way it is, that citizens can still see something, hear and conclude that we need to fight within what space we have. One last thing. It's not just an election campaign. The election is the whole atmosphere before the election campaign. You can make perfect conditions for an election campaign if you have extraordinary circumstances six months or a year before that. As for Dragan Gilas, arrest him, deal with him, do whatever you want with him, but don't hang any of us all the time. I think he was a good mayor, I still think. If you have any particular objections, I say, arrest him, press charges. Don't wave at him here like a beating, which you've been doing for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66340	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66341	I am advertising Article 107, a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because my colleague Vukadinović Boška Obradovic called him a colleague, my colleague, among other things. He can't be my fellow MP, that is, who beats the press, who are with this woman, can't be my colleague at all. He can't be my fellow MP breaking into RTS with people wearing chainsaws. She can't be my colleague who walks into the cabinet of National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic and twists her hand. He can't be my colleague who wants to break into the National Assembly building and burn it down. In particular, it is a violation of the National Assembly's dignity that there is currently a dictatorship in Serbia, as stated in a statement by counterpart Vukadinovic. Now I'm gonna tell him what a dictatorship is. My colleague Vukadinovic doesn't know, and I don't blame him for not knowing that between the two rounds of presidential elections, I was physically attacked while holding a press conference. So it was taken in front of six or seven cameras. Besides that TV that was in that conference, did that news go anywhere? It does not matter that Veroljub Arsic was attacked, it is important that the MP was attacked. Between two rounds of presidential elections, Tadic and Djilas did not allow it to be broadcast. It's a dictatorship. Do you think that's possible today? Somebody tell me if he really means that today it's possible for some councilman in any of the smallest municipalities to be attacked by him? If he was a member of the former regime, he'd be in all the media, on all the TVs, and then you'd be talking about how, except for "Foxus," I don't know where else... It seems to me that we were completely blocked, nothing could be brought out anywhere but what the law had to give us in the SNS campaign. Are you calling the dictatorship to attack the MP and no one to pass it on? People's MP? A colleague, Risticevic, was beaten as a candidate for the President of the Republic, and you say it was a time of democracy, a dictatorship today. It's only someone who obviously doesn't even know what a dictatorship is, because you've never experienced it. I also experienced it during the state of emergency when transfers were lifted and you can attack as many times as you want, but he is one of the MPs who destroyed the government of Zoran Zivkovic when no one dared, especially when he came from DOS. Then be brave. How dare no one? That came from DOS. He didn't bring down that government. Are you DOS? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) I do not want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66342	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Just one moment, before that, consensually. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply, followed by Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Jorge Vukadinović: To whom? A colleague of Vukadinovic, what are you angry about? You're entitled to replicas, I'm releasing a hearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic mentioned me twice as a man who got beat up as a candidate for President of the Republic in 2008. Mr. Orlic mentioned me twice, but apparently someone who laughed while Mr. Arsic spoke of being physically attacked, as I was at St. Stephen's 2008 in downtown Belgrade beat up with a journalist who didn't belong to the opposition group, Sarap, who was leading, seems to me, "The Problem" or what was called a show at Studio B, and I was a guest because I was a candidate in the presidential elections, since I dared to talk about Tadic's regime and Gilasov... After the show, a group of ten boys entered the Irish pub where Sarapa and I were having a drink and beat the shit out of me. While Mr. Arsic was saying that, it was funny to the gentleman across the street, no stops in bloody shirts, the police who came to me until three, four o'clock that morning, they wouldn't let me in so they wouldn't happen to show up in some media, that I wouldn't show up at the Emergency Centre, that it wasn't some news, like it wasn't. They've yet to announce that Sarapa and I attacked a group of 10 young men, and nobody's ever found out what that group was, why the police were on duty while we were beaten up, etc. That's funny to him. I offered to resign if it wasn't true that on Twitter, he wrote that we shouldn't be hanged in the terraces, because that's where patriots hang themselves. So when someone threatens people, living people, it doesn't matter that they're political opponents, that they're going to kill them, I'm going to side with the endangered, and I'm always going to side with the endangered, no matter how much it costs. Yes, it is. I destroyed Zoran Zivkovic's government because I thought it was no longer a government, it's a misery and it needs to be cut short. He went home, eagle country, etc., ran, came to Belgrade, beat up in downtown Belgrade, and that's funny to someone, and that someone on Twitter writes that we shouldn't be hanged in the Terrace, because they hang patriots there. Here, try to hang me, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66344	Comrade Rističević, do not speak directly to other MPs. The right to reply has Dr. Orlic, so Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66345	That's how, since the story that there's no space in the media, that it can't be guested enough, in the end, we've concluded that there seems to be a ha ha, there's a lot more to it than it was for the opposition by 2012. In Belgrade a little longer and in Vojvodina, too. Now the biggest problem, Mr. Vukadinovic, is this debate? What did you say? This debate is proof that there is no democracy and that there are no appropriate conditions for elections and such discussions are then the main arguments to those who say there is a dictatorship in Serbia. Well done. Let me tell you, if the proof of dictatorship is that you can, as you can, do just that, sit quietly in your seat in the plenary room, in the large hall of the National Assembly, participate in the debate, use the right to replicas of two and more minutes, no matter how many times you think of it, it's a difficult dictatorship. In order to remind both you and those who are smart, thus costing the National Assembly, you are in direct transfer to the Public Service. Is the public service seen everywhere? Are you eager to participate in it? Congratulations. You just got your wish answered – you're at the Public Service and as much as you want to talk about what's in your heart and you send the messages you want, and those who have deprived themselves, because that boss Gilas, whose coat you're under, made them all come out of the O.R. together, is just your problem. Once again, you yourself refuse the opportunity to attend as much as you please and then speak, what, we forbid you. You've forbidden yourself. You yourself are not here and you are not talking, and you have opportunities on the second channel of the Public Service. That's the first thing. Second, how good Mayor Dragan Gilas was, since you mentioned it, I believe you are delighted that Belgrade has charged a billion and 200m euros. You know, the Belgraders weren't thrilled. They were even less thrilled that he charged kindergartens twice as much as he had to, by staying in debt to the pensioners, the maternity, the pregnant and the children themselves, which was measured by millions, billions of dinars even, which would make three billion dinars from the city budget go away just to compensate for the damage he was charging twice, and what he was doing back in time, not to worry, and today is given more than ever. Because of such things, Mr Vukadinovicu, Dragan Gilas in Belgrade no longer appreciates anyone. What the people of Belgrade think he was, they say it nice and clear and loud. He passed twice as barefoot as a thorn when the Belgraders wondered, so you know that's how it's gonna be every next time. On the subject of dictatorship and treating political inexperience, but also in media relations, you know what's worst and scariest, what's literally creepy? It's creepy killing Ranko Panic, don't forget that. It was done by members of the former regime to a man who was just their political insinuation. He didn't threaten them in any way, he didn't even talk to them in his life. He was on the street, in the square, and he wanted to walk quietly, to say, "I have a political attitude that is different from yours." He paid for it with his head. It's a dictatorship. (President: Thank you. You know what's creepy about the media? What those who were able to do to a living man, Ranko Panic, forbade the Public Service from knowing his fate for days and weeks. Compare it with anything today, so you will understand how different Serbia is, how much it has nothing to do with the darkness of Gilas and these other ones of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66346	Thank you. The right to replica has Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66347	I could also draw attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, but I did not, because it is some kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure and good parliamentary practice to accept and give replicas to this kind of impeachment. When someone from the opposition does it, seriously or in a joke, then they call each other out, of course they don't get a line. Not even my colleagues on the left or on the right who called each other that way. This is about people on the same list, who are part of the same ruling majority. Of course, they can call one another infinitely. I'm so sorry that this potentially serious debate with Mr. Orlic went through this. But that's the way it's always done. So that's how it's always done. Wrap up on the side, someone who's in charge of spoiling and spitting and actually devising this parliament. Secondly, I don't have every right to replicas like this. That's what I just got when I'm this sick, but still. I thank you anyway. Very often, I've been denied it. Very often I received warnings from Mr Arsic, only because I was saying something that the European Commission accepted afterwards and therefore criticised this assembly, so the president asked to change that practice of making phantom amendments, and he shut me down, punished me and did everything to me as chairman. I respect Mr. Arsic as an MP and as a colleague, but as speaker, I think he is very bad, anyway. As far as the opposition's treatment is concerned, it wasn't such a tortured opposition. It's a sad story to Ratko Panic. So, of course, for every conviction, and I hope that justice will be cast out in that regard. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Orlic, some other people have been mysteriously killed during this government. There's not a few of them. And the security guard in Savamala died under unexplained circumstances on the VMA and the man from Redka who ended up in a mental hospital for reporting because he was attacking tweets. A neighbor reported him criticizing Alexander Vukic. I mean, there are a variety of tragic events that we could and should examine. So it wasn't ideal back then, it's not now. Don't get carried away. Just the last thing about mass. I think that even these protesters, and you systematically from the first day, have only recently begun to minimize or manipulate numbers. These protests are not as weak and few as they appear in the ruling media, they are not as massive as they would like, but they are enough, they are persistent. I agree with some demands, some of them disagree. I don't agree with anything that smells like violence. Maybe I'm stupid and naive, but still. You're always talking about a few dozen, hundreds. No, it's always a few thousand, and there were a few tens of thousands. And that's not very few people, dear colleague Orlic. It's a serious mass. I think they've missed the right time somewhere, that they've missed a chance to massage their protests. I think they kind of jumped off the rails somewhere, but that's another thing, that's going to end up, and you're going to profit from it. But don't put it all in the same basket and don't debate the potential quality of breaking it by pushing some sliding starts of people with whom, like I said, nobody wants to sit on a parliamentary bench, let alone participate in the show.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66348	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. As far as everyone can see, you're getting, of course, an opportunity like everyone else. I'm trying to make sure everyone has the same chance of replicas. Dr. Vladimir Orlic is entitled to a replica, followed by Veroljub Arsic, directly mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66349	He won't be able to relativize it. No way. To mention someone, anyone, one or two people that no one, Mr. Vukadinovic, has killed. Ranko Panic was killed. That never compares. Someone happened to die, we regret it, of course. No one likes it when another man dies naturally or for health reasons. How can this be compared to kicking a man, with treading his spine and skull by those sent from Boris Tadic's cabinet or from a similar place, there is no difference. The state sent them to destroy a man, to crush him, because he dared to speak in the street, not to think what the government of that time meant. There is no such thing in today's Serbia. And that's that huge difference. Don't try to relativize it and say it today is similar. No, nothing, nothing like that. When we talk about people who have a lot of support. Make it 50 and 100 people. Let's not be that I said it was small. This can never be compared to the number of people gathered in front of this house when the SNS leaders were invited to gather in 2011. That's the difference in relevance for you. You know why the difference is so big? Because we never, ever called on the poles to break the entrance and take up the National Assembly, so that as they followed Boško Obradovic, let them be 20, let them be 50, there are no differences, shouting fire, burning everything, burning the National Assembly. We've never sent such messages. That's why the people wanted politics, messages, a call to do something in the country, to follow. And these and these Gilas, Obradovica, they won't be followed by anyone. Although we will talk about what this debate today looks like and what arguments it makes for either against elections or democracy in Serbia, I have no objection. Let's look at each other's things. A double debate on the budget in the National Assembly on the one hand, breaking the flag of Serbia they use as a stick of the most common, front door in the House of the National Assembly. Under 5% of the emergency procedure, I think for the past six months, let it be a one-sided frame. Destroying RTS, breaking glass, entering inside a killer stampede just looking at who he's gonna run over first. On the one hand, a debate that implies that all independent institutions are being analysed and open-ended reports are being discussed here. You know how much they asked for it, and they got it all, on the one hand. On the other hand, hanging from the terraces. Let there be opportunities to replicate both you and whoever wants to be in direct transmission, on the one hand, and on the other hand, motor saws that are threatening someone. Let them be on one side of RTS, a TV on which both leaders and those who are not leaders and who have parties and who do not have parties, only if they have something to say against Alexander Vukic, his family and SNS, on the one hand. On the other hand, let the messages be like a sniper in the chest of Alexander Vukić from one media to another, from one weekly to another or diary. So what do you think, when the two sides look at each other, what will Serbia choose? Think for yourself, Serbia is that difference more than clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66350	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66351	Dear counterpart Vukadinovic called the amendments to SNS's national MPs a phantom. They were as phantom as the amendments he submitted, as amendments submitted by the other opposition and as amendments submitted by representatives of the former regime. Did you hear anyone from here call those amendments phantom? (Milorad Mircic: Were the radicals tolerated? You're not. Did you hear anyone from here call phantom proposals to supplement the agenda submitted by former regime representatives? It's not anybody, because we believe we have the same rights and don't take those rights away from us. Now, let me say one more thing. Does Mr. Vukadinovic think that in 2011, when around 100,000 sympathies were parked here, and members of the SNS could not break into the National Assembly? She could and there wasn't a police unit that could stop it. A hundred thousand people without a serious conflict can't be stopped. Is it broken in? It's not. Now, you see colleague Vukadinovic's difference between us and the former regime. We came to power because the citizens estimated we were better than the former regime and they assessed perfectly correctly that the former regime was a group of thieves. You can defend them all you want, they're thieves. You know what, when you call on the mass of those who want to break into the Assembly and set it on fire, ask the question of who the former regime members are gathering. Kids, 18, 19 years old, who don't know what kind of thieves they were when they were in power and they manipulate young people to face the police and get hurt. They're from the former regime, you defend them, and you fight against them, by political means. We don't want any more thieves in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66352	Thank you. Right on the replica of Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66353	So, Mr. Arsic, we are equal as the MPs and we should be. The amendments are not, if abused and proven, verified, in the European Commission's report it has been mentioned, highlighted and that practice has given up, as you know your parliamentary group does not. Individuals were mentioned here who continued to do this, so I took pictures of it, but I didn't go public, they continued to rewrite the entire amendment and just add one clutch, a comma or a sign of a quote, and then they got room to talk on the amendment, spit, spit on the task they needed, mostly someone from the opposition, present or absent. That's why they're phantom amendments. It's not a phantom amendment-- erases, some item you don't believe in, and you think it's bad. It's not a phantom amendment if you're suggesting a different solution, good or bad. After all, the fact that you had to give up on it already shows, under the pressure of Brussels, because none of the foreigners could understand it, from these European institutions anywhere in the world, that the ruling coalition would not submit a few hundred or a few thousand amendments to its own legal proposals. They were miraculously surprised. Well, the thieves are, you say, Mr. Arsic, you see, I honestly call, I don't want to hide anything, anyone I can talk to, I talk to, better or worse. You know, they say that about you, too, Mr. Arsic. And they say that about you and document it in one way or another. By the fact that unlike you, they are not in power, and when they accuse you of being thieves, they can say, we will prove it one day when institutions do. And you don't have that alibi and you don't have that excuse that they have when you say they're thieves and you don't arrest anyone and you don't prosecute. That's the problem with you, Mr. Arsic. You've been in power for seven years. Soon we will enter the eighth year of power. It does not help these equilibrists verbal and exhibitional and dominant media and in parliament. And last, about mass. So, I didn't deny the massality together at all, I think it was April 19th or April 20th, the ruling party. But also, no one who's been through... (Veroljub Arsic: 2011) Yeah, I know, that too. But also, the one of April 13th, the opposition, was very massive, very visited, very energetic, and there were no incidents, fortunately, although I think that the energy was badly used and that it was bad, then the protests went downhill. So there were several tens of thousands. The problem is that you out of some vanity, the government doesn't want to admit that the opposition can and has gathered several tens of thousands this year, whether 20, 30 or 40, of course, that fell after a few thousand, there used to be several hundred, over the summer, but, in any case, these protests are quite mass. That 11th, I was on it, too, with that progressive protest, was very massive. It wasn't 100 grand. If it was 100,000, then the opposition now had 100,000, but it doesn't matter. Don't underestimate your opponents. Try to grow bridges with them and then when you're the strongest, because usually the opposite practice is the opposite of the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66354	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The right to replica has Dr Vladimir Orlic, then Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66355	I'm just surprised that you keep forgetting that they're thieves, and when we say they're proven thieves, that means evidence that they've established themselves and made themselves public. So you forgot, so I have to remind you. People from the Democratic Party themselves formed a working group to investigate what was happening in their party, but also in Serbia, while they were in power. What they themselves found, they put in the report themselves, and the report was published afterwards -- that their leaders since 2006 and beyond, which means the period between Dragan Gilas and the Vuk Jeremic period, you know who has been at the head of the party since 2006, so they have participated in those activities that have earned their own and their own party the label of yellow thieves. That's what they say. They found, investigated, watched their party finances, watched the records from meetings, made public, kept secret, and determined. And they also say in their text that they participated in the setting-up of the tender, that they participated in the setting-up of the competition, that they participated in the percentage installation, that they asked that the percentages of the jobs they approve give back, and then those who pay better force further, those who pay less, who further participated with them in all the corrupt activities. That's what they found out. It's not something I'm supposed to determine right now. They did their job for everyone, examined. What they did with it later, whether they forced it before the court, that's another thing. Like, unfortunately, I have to say, both the prosecution and the court are a whole other topic. Do you know how many people have come to have to be the subject of an official investigation? We read here and the names spoke. Here's another, just a few to remind you: Sasa Dragin -- former minister, Predrag Bubalo -- is former minister Oliver Dulic -- also former minister Milosavljevic -- former minister. And what further does the court do, do not ask us as ambassadors of the people? We, however much we refrain, are infrequently saying -- we don't know what he's doing and we can't understand what he's doing. What's the D.A.'s office doing? Once again, don't ask us. As much as we hold back, sometimes we have to ask again - and what don't they react? Have criminal charges been filed against both Gilas and Jeremic and against Bastic and Aleksic, when else? That's where he's been keeping his mouth shut for years. That's where he's been waiting for years. And we ask. Documented, evidence attached. What was he doing and how much was Alexic doing on Trestenik with his father-in-law and crew? What was he doing and how much damage did Jeremic do on the subject of the Energy Project? What he did and what damage Gilas and these transnge-frange did for seconds and everything else he did, 619m euros a man earned, under allegations, while dealing with politics, from politics. What happened to Bastac, what happened to that damage he did to his municipality? What happened, after all, with the alarmers who claim to have strangled us with bags, destroyed us, forced us to take the money from the municipal budget with him, and then to return and give it back to his people. So we're asking -- what's going on with these things? We do not protect any of them, on the contrary. But, to be clear, when they say it for themselves -- yellow thieves, when they say it for themselves -- we found out that we were stealing, you know what, I can't leave even a glimpse of doubt, I can just say -- you're right, you know best who you are, what you are and what you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66356	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66357	Mr. Chairman, when someone without a dinar comes to power and loses power, he ends up with 615m euros in assets, and his people over whom he has exercised power have become poorer, that 200,000 people have lost their jobs, that the economy has been completely destroyed, while he has exercised power and become rich, and the people are poor -- for me, the thief, the common thief. He can pass laws not to be convicted, and they did, they changed foreign exchange laws, they changed criminal law, they changed bankruptcy laws, they changed privatisation laws, they changed everything so they wouldn't go to jail. But they were getting richer and the people were getting poorer. For me, people like that have only one name, which is that they're thieves. You can defend them as much as you want, they're richer than they were when they came to power. One more thing. I don't diminish anybody's merits, but that's why I don't let those merits that the SNS has also diminish. That rally that you said was much, much less than 100,000 people, official police data that didn't have any influence at the time, not theoretically, because it was the opposition, the SNS was the opposition, the assessment of the police was that there were 75,000 people. Official assessment. When you say 20, 30, 40, I have to tell you something. I've organized more rallys than you've ever seen in your life, let alone participated. You can't convince me that five or six thousand people, as many as there were when they walked here in Belgrade, could be several tens of thousands of people. You can't convince me that 30,000 or 40,000 people can stand on one side of the boulevard here, from Takovska to this park next to the National Assembly, there's no way. Fifty thousand to the House of Unions and to be in the park. They couldn't cross the street by numbers. One more thing, colleague Vukadinovic, we were also in the Assembly during that rally, we know in our heads how long it was. We could have followed what was happening as MPs. We didn't want to let Bosca Obradovic break into the National Assembly and we weren't afraid of how many there were outside, because we knew they were basically cowards.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66358	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66359	Let's just say, as a gesture of goodwill to the chairman, I won't, if I'm not directly spit out, continue this series of replicas. I think it's a good practice, but I'm warning the chairman that they're avoiding the abuses of the Rules of Procedure. The dialogue, the replica, the few, so that we don't go endlessly, makes sense and I don't mind the last being even the representative of the ruling option. So I don't mind their word being the last, but the voice of the opposition must be heard. You have to convince yourself somewhere and swallow it, even when you don't like it. We won't bid here in numbers, Mr. Arsic. It was mass, it was a lot. I think it was just as much as it was at that rally of yours in 2011. Anyway, I'm against violence, and then and now, but you have a problem admitting it. There were protests, I was walking, I was walking, I was walking, until I got around the concept of some things, so in the winter and in the heat. That's a few tens of thousands, then it went down. They need to ask themselves, or do we, what do you want, why did it go wrong? But there are a few thousand now. It's not worth taking pictures of that rally before the start of half an hour or half an hour when the walk is gone, and then say it's a few tenths. No, there's a couple thousand now, I say. That's one thing. More importantly, and I end up with, you say they're richer, thinking of these predecessors, they're richer than when they came to power. Mr Arsic, unfortunately this applies to both you and many, I don't know about you personally, but to many of your colleagues, yes, and the citizens think about you and know that they are richer, many advances are much richer and much more educated, with a lot more diploma and much more money than when you came to power. You didn't come because you were better, you came to power because you were very disappointed people in those before you. Don't forget that. They didn't choose you because Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic were so wonderful and sweet, they were very bitter at the predecessors. Don't let that happen to you, too, don't get involved with that self-satisfaction over these percentages and the mass of your rallys, and don't underestimate your opponents, and the people will eventually judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66360	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66361	In one part, I must say that my colleague Vukadinovic is right – the people will condemn, the people are wondering. In less than half a year, a few months, just so much more, we check out how we were when we were in power. The people judge us, we don't want the street to judge us. We don't want the poles, but the voices, in a democratic way. We've always been so determined to come to power, not by bullying, not by fighting, something else, hanging, shooting, drawing targets to the President of the Republic, burning down the Assembly, not by talking about what was still there. Also, counterpart Vukadinovic should know that more than three people per square metre cannot stand in protest, so calculate how wide the boulevard is. These three can be in the first, second, third row, the first two, three meters and then it's diluted, and when the walk can't be more than three people in two squares. Calculate the length of a boulevard, its width, so look at the beginning of the column, and look at the middle, and look at the end. And a small child can calculate, today, thank God, we live in the 21st century, technique, maltene, amazing, so it can be technically calculated by cameras. By that we see how serious these protests are. What's the point of these protests? The objective of the protest is not to come to power in the elections, they are no longer hiding it, but to come by showing up in a political crisis in Serbia, which does not exist. You have to agree even in your most optimistic estimates that there were 50,000 people, it is not a critical mass for which elections are being discussed, because that same former regime, when we collected twice as much as your most optimistic assessment did not give the election, and we also asked for the election of the then SNS President Tomislav Nikolic, strike hunger and thirst. And now they won't have a choice. Here, now they're not going to vote, now they want to take power in the Republic of Serbia through a fined political crisis, and then organise the elections to their extent, and not by law, and that the electoral will of the citizens wants to show they can't. If it were different, they would be involved both in the dialogue and in the election process. No, they want power across the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66362	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the line, Dr. Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66363	I think, in fact, with those stories of the masseuse of these protests, you're modest. You know, where out of a couple hundred or some thousand, you see tens and tens of thousands, you're even modest. Many others among your ranks said it was bigger, that you were five million to them. They said so much, it was so much. It's true, Mr. Arsic is right, you didn't make a mistake when you said it went off, but you just didn't say why it went off. Let me remind you, because Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Lutovac and others came out on stage, no longer hid, dragged the ends out of the shadows, but went out on stage. Everyone saw who was behind that whole mess. After these people, Mr. Vukadinovic, the people won't. So, the moment it became quite clear, they admitted themselves – here, we stand behind this story about this so-called. The protests, the others turned around and went home. Do you know why? It has to do with whether they're better or worse. The people know them as an evil couple; they know that they are the worst; they know that there is none of them worse, and they will not follow them. That's why it went crazy, and that's why it counts with, I don't know, 20 or 50 people. You're wrong when you say, you say very much when you say that some of us, like them, are enormously rich. Find one single example between us or wherever you want without being called Dragan Gilas, a man who managed to register 619m euros as incomes in the accounts of his companies while dealing with politics policy. One, and not to be called Dragan Gilas, there is no such example, either between us or among some third, five, or in Serbia, or outside Serbia, which you want to take the country. It only worked for Gilas and no one else. There are no more examples like this, and there are no more unstainable, one-of-a-kind, no more one-of-a-kind-of-a-kind-of-a-kind-of-a-kinds-of-a-kind. If you think there's a problem with the smaller dimensions between us on the subject, we say, we solve these problems ourselves. The laws on the investigation of the origin of the property, we establish, we will do these things, and neither by the grandmother nor by the uncles, nor by the others, because we have nothing to fear, because we know such things as Dragan Gilas, the insatiable tycoon Dragan Gilas, among us there is nothing to worry about. If the people didn't know exactly who we were and what we were in 2012, all they knew was that they were the worst there, what was it in 2014? What happened in 2016? What was 2017/2018? years in Belgrade? Mr. Vukadinovic, you're lying to yourself if you think people don't make a difference. The real ones as time goes by, our successes are growing, the victory of Alexander Vukic and the SNS is becoming more convincing. You know when that difference was first clearly seen? Well, 2011 or 2012. The moment the people had an opposition in front of them, Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, the SNS who spoke, we are convinced that we are much better, we are confident that the difference is obvious, we are just looking for choices and nothing more. We told the former regime, that's all you've got, and your laws, and your REMs, the RRAs, the Anti-Corruption Agency, everything you've got in your hands, just make the choices for us to look into these choices to measure ourselves in order for the people to say. The people said, these people deserve trust, and those who want to destroy and break just excuses for what no one will follow, so it's clear to you that they don't expect anything from themselves because they know what they're worth, or they're worth nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66364	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Marko Parezenović. He's not there. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66365	Dear Vice-President Marinkovic, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, firstly I want to say that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all Serbs in the diaspora and dissociated and all voters who have the right to vote should not worry, that the Republic of Serbia is a politically and economically stable country and that it is good that this extremely important topic is being discussed, that the electoral conditions and this set of laws that are on the agenda today are precisely which should contribute to improving electoral conditions of debate in the National Assembly and where it is actually a place for discussion, for dialogue and for the adoption of laws. The National Assembly is where we need to talk. Here, we've had very constructive discussions here today. We've heard different opinions, and that's how the laws are passed, and that's how we talk about electoral conditions. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote for a whole set of laws that, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, have proposed to the National Assembly, which will address the improvement of election conditions, election processes, democratic and transparent elections. As a parliamentary party, Unity Serbia, which has six MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, who has participated in all dialogues and round tables that have so far been held on improving electoral conditions, but which, together with its coalition partners, the Socialists, submitted 17 proposals before the dialogue on improving election conditions, absolutely ready to hold elections, and we are ready for our works, programmes and results to go to elections today if they were held. For us from the Single Serbia, improving electoral conditions is absolutely very important, because we see them as a long-term solution that will improve the overall electoral process and is of great importance for maintaining and going to the polls both in local and parliamentary elections. Mr. Minister, I will also commend your ministry and work, the effort you have made, especially when it comes to the electronic data system, when it comes to connecting and parenting both the books of the born and the books of the dead, to have an absolutely accurate, unique idea of what it is, to say, the number of voters who have the right to vote. The ruling coalition has done much to improve the overall electoral process, to improve electoral conditions, and we have passed very high quality laws in the National Assembly. It is the only legitimate authority elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as the government is absolutely elected in the elections. Representatives of parliamentary parties who are here in parliament absolutely represent citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Talks cannot be conducted on the street, not laws can be passed on the street, but here in the National Assembly, which is the only place where dialogue has always been conducted, where it is run and where it will be run. Only Serbia who has legitimately chosen its power, only Serbia, which today leads and represents President Aleksandar Vucic is Serbia, where Aleksandar Vukic opens highways, schools and maternity sites, Serbia in which Dragan Markovic Palma brings foreign investors and opens new factories and opens new plants, as he opened the new plant "Juhor" in Jagodina, only Serbia in which Ivica Dacic leads the most responsible foreign policy in the history of the Republic of Serbia, where we are fighting for the preservation of Kosovo, which is only our own and Serbian, where we are fighting with foreign countries to restore Serbia's reputation in the world, is Serbia, whose Serbian citizens believe, who have given their legitimate right to vote, where children are born, where schools are opened and in which works and the results are actually the reputation of host Serbia. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will always respect the will of citizens. We will vote in favour of all laws and of all, let me say, the principles of programming that are in the interest and prosperity of the citizens of Serbia. That is why we are telling the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they should not worry, that they should go to the polls as much as possible, that going to the elections should also be a legal obligation to best see who Serbian citizens support. I believe that the citizens of Serbia, as so far, will support their representatives who are here in parliament, not on the street. Unique Serbia has participated in all the dialogues, our president, our representatives that have been held so far. We gave our opinion that we do not want Serbia in which there will be a war, in which there will be a revolution. We want Serbia in which there will be peace, stability, respect for the will of citizens and the preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We respect the talks certainly with the OSCE Mission, respect the intervention of the European Parliament and of all observers, both domestic and foreign observers, but we cannot respect the arrival of the National Assembly and the desire to bring riots to power, those who act as great patriots, and who were not in the Assembly when we passed extremely important laws, when we passed Tijana's law which is in favour of our children, when the president was, when he was also, about the relations of Belgrade and Pristina and the preservation of peace and stability of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and when we passed Laws on the construction of highways and all important laws in this mandate, not to appoint them now. The Single Serbia parliamentary group has always supported all the laws. They will support each and this set of laws, because we represent the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this Parliament, and we cannot accept the part of the opposition that does not come to the Assembly, which is neatly receiving salaries and which does not respect the Assembly as an institution, or the citizens who have elected them, and whose vote for absolutely in every respect wants to discredit everything we do in the National Assembly and wants to degrade the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. What happened this weekend was certainly one double attack on the National Assembly as an institution, but also on the largest symbol of the Republic of Serbia, which is the flag of the Republic of Serbia. So, there's been, let me say, a double attack. We JS MPs certainly want to condemn this because no one has the right to attack the Republic of Serbia and to defile the flag of the Republic of Serbia and all that is the greatest symbol of the patriotism of the Republic of Serbia. For me as a Serbian, as a national MP, and I am sure all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly and the flag of the Republic of Serbia serve as proud. With the flag...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66366	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66367	Let me finish. Thank you, and you've given the others time. With the flag we proudly call upon all our ancestors, honoring our history and ancestors and the future of all our descendants. A unique Serbia will by no means support the drawing of targets on the president of the Republic of Serbia. We cannot support the opposition that enters the National Assembly, illegally in the RTS building, which demeans women, places locks on the ministry building, so we are absolutely for changing electoral conditions, but legitimately and realistically brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66368	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go, Mrs. Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66369	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I notice a certain symbolism in the fact that just yesterday, when the Anti-Corruption Day was marked, we began to discuss four extremely important anti-corruption laws and to improve electoral conditions. Today we continue this debate on the day of the Human Rights Day. It is precisely the obligation to hold democratic and fair elections that reflect the free will of the people contained right in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and that seems to me in Article 21. It is not a universal declaration of the only document, it is more of an international declaration of which is also a signator and of Serbia, which commits to the free and fair express will of citizens through electoral processes. This is actually the basis of the authority and legitimacy of every government and government. The elections represent the sovereign will of citizens and citizens, and we must also take care when we talk about the proposed amendments and additions to these laws, but also when we talk about the very will that this parliamentary majority has made clear by entering this whole process. The electoral process should be nurtured and promoted in order to improve as functionally and comprehensively as possible the ways in which voters can exercise their free will and their right to vote and not only to vote but to choose and be elected. The draft law on the financing of political activities, the Anti-Corruption Act, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Law on Public Enterprises are the result of the joint work of the government of Serbia and the Working Group on Co-operation with the OSCE and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which was formed on 30 September by the government's decision. The task of the task of the task force was, it was not against us to repeat it, to coordinate and monitor the implementation of recommendations from the OSCE Mission and Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights on the election process. The task force analysed all OSCE and ODIR reports from 2003 to 2017. How long has it been since the government and the authorities changed since 2003, so that we would practically be able to do so in 2019, so the parliamentary majority has begun to finally improve the electoral process. It is not realistic to expect that something that has been neglected and ignored for many years has changed during the night. It takes at least as long as the neglect took to change. The promotion of the electoral process does not end in the 2020 elections. As I have already said, this parliamentary majority has shown during a series of inter-party talks and dialogues during the summer at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and later with representatives of the European Parliament, the will to continue the process of promotion and adaptation after the elections. Why? For Serbian citizens to have the most advanced conditions that exist in the most developed countries of Europe and the world. We in the SDPS parliamentary group thus understand the process of improving electoral conditions, and we also understand this discussion in parliament and the inter-party discussion with representatives of the European Parliament. We are actively involved in this process. It is fair to say that citizens know, in the sea of speculation and informal information, replacing the thesis and confusing messages of the opposition's work that advocates the boycott of the election, that representatives of parliamentary majority parties have accepted not only a series of suggestions from other participants in the talks, but also the responsibility to do what was not political will in the past decade and a half. In the first place, it was approached to improve electoral conditions through amendments to the law, not only through the adoption of sublegal acts, instructions, conclusions, etc. Each of the proposed amendments to the law was organised a public debate under the law, involving all interested participants in Serbia's political life, but also representatives of the civil sector. For the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, improving the electoral process that promotes fundamental human rights, civil and political freedoms, contributes to building a democratic and open society that respects diversity and the right to express free political will. We, as I said, went out in those talks with our platform that was completely consistent with our coalition partners' platform, but also with what were common suggestions, grudges, even works of the civil sector. All the proposed changes we are talking about today are a reflection of these suggestions and recommendations that are ultimately accepted. Therefore, amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act strengthen the mechanisms and institutions for more effective control of all participants of the electoral process, tightening criminal provisions and, more importantly, defining the use of public resources to avoid abuse. It is also extremely important that amendments to the law are adapted to deadlines in which the Anti-Corruption Agency decides on applications and official duties. The Law on Public Enterprises restricts the activities of public business managers for political purposes, i.e. in an election campaign. They are clearly defined by these amendments and additions to the laws of prevention mechanisms for campaigning at work, both managers and employees. The Law on the financing of political activities was one of those recommendations that has been repeated in the OSCE reports since 2003 until 2017. It should be recalled that the Law on the financing of political activities was first adopted in 2003. It also contained shortcomings that concerned precisely the mechanisms of effective, labour finance and money spending control during the election campaign. The law was amended in 2008 when part of the RIK authority moved to the Anti-Corruption Agency, and then we changed it in 2011. This change was not enough because there were no adequate legal solutions to control and sanction law violations. This is unfortunately, and I think it is essential that we remember this, which is unfortunately also seen in the European Commission's 2010 progress report on Serbia. In 2010, the report said that it is necessary to pass a law providing more transparent funding for political parties and better control of money spending in election campaigns. When I speak and think about what is important in the electoral conditions, three of the interested parties that this parliamentary majority has shown to take care of are important. So who's interested in one election process? Voters, participants in the choir process and the media. Media to inform and educate voters at a time in which they can exercise their electoral right, to enable all participants in the political process, i.e. the electoral process to present and present their electoral programmes to citizens, while taking care of their editorial independence. It's up to the citizens to decide who's better in the election. It is up to us to do the best we can with what we have and where we are right now, in order to deserve that support from the citizens. How do we fight for citizens' trust? Just the results, not the words, ideas, consistency, commitment and responsibility, and not the performances and, forgive the expression, stupid and insubordinate actions. In the voting day, of course, the SDPS will support all these proposed amendments and amendments to the law, because for us as well as for this parliamentary majority, the promotion and improvement of the electoral process is just beginning and not ending in the 2020 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66370	Thank you, Mrs. Mihailović Vacic. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66371	Ladies and gentlemen, we in the SRS did not participate in these negotiations organised by NGOs and European parliamentarians, not in the right sense by Parliamentarians, but by former parliamentarians. Under the auspices of the European Parliament, political parties, primarily those in power, with political parties that have become very, very voluntary parliamentary in a very, very voluntary way. And that would be some lower content of the talks, when it comes to political parties, or parliamentary parties, and who is behind these meetings. What the SRS has been insisting on all this time of this term is that a parliamentary debate is being held within parliament, that the proposals are being presented in this parliament, in order to improve the conditions and way of functioning of this parliament, in fact, to have the most direct impact on political life in Serbia. Aware of their responsibilities and share in this responsibility, we have calculated that those who hold power will also be responsible for accessing certain proposals, considering certain proposals and amendments relating not only to Parliament's work, but also to the process of maintaining the isolates. However, it was obviously something that could come to mind before standing, in front of the wall. That wall had no ear at all to listen to the SRS, and when we initially said it was not good to increase pensions within parliament, that it was not good so that it was very opposed to the opposition, that the opposition, the government, or the ruling coalition was deaf to all of this, that it once closed its eyes, I wouldn't say it was blind, but it closed its eyes, so it went even to one extreme, that it was uniting 60 points of the agenda, and among other things, one of those points was considering the Budget Law. It became a rule until the moment the European Parliament, or the EU, was invited by NGOs. We who believed, were deeply convinced, Serbian radicals, that at least individuals would influence not to accept the ultimatum, blackmail, pressure on the side to settle parliamentary life, in order to increase the degree of democracy in Serbia, not because they were emotions with individuals, but because we were almost convinced that these individuals would clearly convey their experiences what it means when the EU and representatives of the European Parliament intervened within the political life of a country. Nothing good can be expected. And our conviction fell to the point where, under the European Parliament and the EU, representatives of the ruling coalition, obediently, scrutinised, decapitated heads went outside parliament to discuss improving parliamentary life and raising the degree of democracy, when it comes to holding elections. Simply, man couldn't believe it, especially for us it was a surprise, when they insisted on joining all parliamentary parties. We are not and will not participate, not for reasons of anger, not for reasons of exclusion, but for reasons we do not allow anyone on the side to determine how and in any way we will take care of parliamentary life and how and how we will conduct the elections in this Serbia. We're not at the end of our hearts not to accept good suggestions from both sides, but we can't. And what happened? These talks took place in the buds, some amphitheaters, classrooms, and restaurants. That's exactly the level that those who are the bearers of power deserve. They deserve nothing more than to drag you around the hotels of Belgrade, in low-class cafes, except that there are no more, unfortunately, those aluminum ashtrays that you can sign. That's just how much you deserve, and that's the level. Instead of at least showing some dignity, you say, gentlemen, that you're meeting by hotels with, conditionally speaking, the other side, you can do it somewhere else, in another country, with some other people, not us to play with. It's humiliating for Serbia, for Serbian citizens. If they were to order through the mediators, those who are not a parliamentary party, those who have become a parliamentary party overnight in a voluntary manner, to order through the mediators what the government needs to do to court not only them as extraparliamentaries, but the EU. Well, isn't it a little too much, gentlemen? I am personally so disappointed that I must now give you my personal conviction after all this. I'm almost certain now that this ruling party, called SNS, is essentially formed from a conglomerate called DOS, whose foundation is DS, and you just borrowed a few names from the SRS to be in your leadership. Why? To distract the people even more, to serve an even greater fraud. Everything the DS did, everything the DOS advocated, that's what you do, gentlemen. Unfortunately, the ones you borrowed aren't brave enough to resist these manipulations. They are not aware enough of the danger it poses to Serbia. If they change your laws, if you accept these changes under their pressure, don't be sure they won't move your election date. Don't be so sure and sneak around with their praises that we won't experience the fate of northern Macedonia. Only if they think you're no longer responsible for their goals is the moment you're coming down from the pedestal authorities, bringing in some others, bringing in those who are now gathering them at the hotel. How the people will vote, so who cares more, when it comes to the EU. They know it's relative. They know there's something besides these budgets. They know that there is something other than funds used from the fund, from Serbia's budget and from public enterprises. They know they have a so-called. votes in the subscription. Those votes in the subscription, gentlemen, are provided by the sponsors, under the allegations, going with money from house to house, with their heads cut off, who are in black jeeps and pre-reserving their votes. And it's not an innovation that needs to be tied to the current current current government. That's something the DS introduced. And many of you here, like us, are Serbian radical witnesses that they were almost convinced that it would work in infinity. You've seen it stop all of a sudden. They are interrupted the moment those same ones who brought them to power estimate that they no longer benefit from them, that they no longer serve them for nothing. They threw them away like wrinkled paper, so I don't say which, throw them away and bring in new ones. They brought in the same DOS conglomerate, with DS markings and literally put them back into the Serbian parliament. You're referring to the president of the state. This is the only back-up argument left for you, and you do not see what these out-of-the-line, elaborate European parliamentarians are proposing through this proposal of the law on public enterprises, so don't you see that at a small door, among other things, they have been pointing out something that was present not only in Serbia before, but in the whole Balkans, which is reporting. It's so-called. in the people known to snitch. Now, the directors of public enterprises, all eyes will look up to them and simply rat on you, informing you that they've been recruiting this or that worker. What do they need? They don't need the truth, they need two false witnesses. What's to be created? There will be such an atmosphere that everyone will take the right to report someone who is an actual politician or someone who is at the head of a public enterprise. Don't forget, gentlemen, she has a true anecdote, when the Third Reich took Belgrade, then the Gestapo announced that it would be good for the well-intentioned, the Raju loyal Serbs to report others who are against the Reich. After a week, they prayed that the Serbs would no longer come, because the mass was so simple that they were just as surprised. It's a true anecdote. It's not for comparison, but the same thing will apply here, and you obediently, not to say blindly, you don't hear, and the same when they're present, you don't see. You meet that and you're full of yourself as it's good, as it's progress for Serbia. It's not, gentlemen. This is the beginning of the end and democracy and democratic principles and parliamentary life. The question is, where will this end? It's a big question. You'll see, and you'll still be running out of arguments, when you don't have these on-call tours, and then you call on the authority of the president of the state. The people will tolerate it, and the question is how they will judge it in the elections, the question is great, because they know that you are not capable and that you are far, far below, and that you are not at the level that you can say at these meetings – gentlemen, under this minimum we are not going, you cannot turn us into slaves, we cannot be a obedient colony, we cannot accept your laws and regulations, because Serbia is a free country. Gentlemen, just to remind you, we who are followers of the Serbian Radicalism tradition in 1918, while in that western, as you call it, advanced Europe, women were a minority inventory number, in Serbia, in Serbia's Vojvodina, gave women the right to vote. It's democracy, it's tradition. Instead of sometimes remembering that you have a tradition, you go so low that you accept, at any cost, everything they propose. You'll see how it ends. We wouldn't like Serbian radicals if we were right, but this is the beginning of an end to independence when it comes to holding elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66372	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66373	So, once again, the dialogue we have is being conducted in the National Assembly. So that's where we get together with both those we agree with and those we disagree with, and we only do it in institutions. Whoever's gathering around the buds and hotels, it's not safe for us, and that's their thing, and I wouldn't keep on doing it. The National Assembly is the place where it is discussed. The National Assembly, perhaps more important, is where it is decided. We're discussing bill proposals, what can, what can't. No one, from the east, nor from the west, nor from the north, nor from the south of the planet, determines the institutions of this country, decides the National Assembly in which the people sent their representatives. That's the answer to all the questions - if anyone can serve us, impose or not. The National Assembly, the institutions and the point. The issue of democracy, respect for parliamentaryism, is where you end up every story on the subject. As for the fact that we're the same with the former regime and we're doing the same thing, which is why I disagree? Because we provide an average wage that is fifty percent higher than they had, because we provide highways that they were unable to begin fairly, because we raise employment and, let me remind you, we provide hundreds of thousands of new jobs, against them who have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. We can do as much as you want. That list is literally unsightly. We do everything completely differently, completely the opposite of them and, as a rule, it means good and successful for the Republic of Serbia. Let's also talk about the foreign policy plan and relations, yes, with the European Union, but also with Russia, and with China, and with the United States, that's right, but also with the countries of Africa, Latin America. Everything is so much better today that it's incomparable, absolutely incomparable and there's no room for anyone to say – we're doing the same, we're the same. We're very different, and that's why we win, which is why our politics, the politics of Alexander Vukic, are supported by the people, and they won't be seen with their eyes. As for the way the Rajhu loyal Serbs used to act, I don't know who that can be asked as a question today. Those who support the ideology of the Reich of Loyal Serbs of World War II? Do you mean the Ljotics? They're together with those who talk about how they're going to rule without a choice. Is Democracy a Theme? Yes, it is. As we speak democratically, it comes to power through elections, they dream that someone from the white world should put them in power. They know they have nothing to look for in democratic elections. If we're talking about democracy and who's going to let them run down water or shifts, there's always a principled answer on our side -- the people decide, and the people of Serbia, the people here are wondering who's going to do what, who's going to be sent deep to the margin, the people are wondering what kind of future they want, who are going to support in the elections. Take care of the election. This is where decisions are made and who will do the parliamentary majority, who will ask tomorrow for laws, for the promotion of these or any other. As we deal with it, be sure, our conscience is completely peaceful, for before that people we always are, because we have something to do with it. We're headed by Alexander Wolfie. We are not ashamed of it, and even with great pride we say with all that we have managed to do, because these things, good things, standards and infrastructures and jobs, will never be able to compete with those who are like Gilas and these Ljotics, fascists, Raja fans, as they say... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... They watched as they provided for themselves, how their pockets could be filled and how to be some authority, even if it meant over the coat of arms of that people and yelling at that people skin off their backs. (President: Thank you. When the people see, then the people wonder, and then the people have a very good and clear answer. It says – absolute support for Alexander Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66374	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Veloljub Arsic: No. Do you want a replica? (Veloljub Arsic: No. All right. The word is Milorad Mircic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66375	I'm sorry, Mr. Marinkovic, you obviously have some pre-prepared scenarios. If Arsic's for replica, he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66376	I don't. A colleague, Arsic, was in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66377	Well, then it's from another...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66378	It's time for me to, of course, ask him and offer him to speak. Thank you. Veroljub Arsic: Next speaker. You know very well. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66379	Next. I'm sorry. Comrade Orlic, you do not need to explain and stress that at the head of your list, not you will be the name of Alexander Vukic. I just want to remind you that these are parliamentary elections, local character choices and provinces. It's not Alexander Vukitch who runs the municipalities, it's someone who's capable of the job. Alexander Vukic will not be head of the province administration. He's the president of the state. Alexander Vukic will not be president of the Serbian government. That's all in this election process now to be chosen. You will use his name and his rating to install on a local level something that was generally known in most municipalities, which is that they slowly began to become personally rich. You will use his name to bring back someone on the province level who will raise himself for the lives of monuments, such as the Radio Television of the Duke, such as many missed investments. As for this particular issue of negotiating, Mr. Orlic, together with you and many of your colleagues, we Serbian radicals from the fifth veins fought for the achievement of one of the highest ideas, the idea of a nation uniting itself, that there was one Parliament and one government and one president. Are we gonna make it? You never know. When will it be? And you don't know that. We hope to experience it. We are also against any role in this Serbia, and in particular a significant role are foreign intelligence agents, such as commissions headed by Vuco Kovacevic. You're now negotiating with her followers, it can't fall any lower. You are talking to CESID on all official CESID lists along with resistance and how it marked officially, as an agent of the US Intelligence Service. You're talking to "The Line", which is nothing but the same as these two before. We are to have a conversation, to have a debate, but in parliament, not at the Faculty of Political Sciences, not in some hotels and in the halls of these hotels. We are always open to conversation, and if it is a bad solution, we have brought it to the people who have chosen it, not with the presence and suggestions of those who have never been to the elections and those who have never thought well of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66380	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. All I'm asking is that we stick to time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66381	Okay, we'll hold on. So, the National Assembly, and here I am, and no one but us, and who's asking. That answers all your questions, and what is asked is nothing harmful or humiliating. When it's said, they're resources, so it's taxingly nice, exactly what it's saying. When you say – you can use it and you can't use it and you can't use it for the needs of an election campaign. When said – the time limit for a response to the Agency's request for so many days, i.e. the time limit within which the Agency itself must act, is so long and so time-consuming. There's nothing humiliating about saying punishment for those who don't respect it are so much and so much and some will say, so most of these things we've had before. We didn't have a precise definition that way, and we didn't have everything, but when you look at them, there's nothing that simply healthyly any Serbian citizen will say is bad or controversial. So these are all ways to completely remove any, or theoretical doubt that anyone can exert pressure when it comes to electoral support. So, we're talking all the time, our interest is that no one has a single card tomorrow, not to mention, if someone's been pushed somewhere, blackmailed, no one needs everyone in this country, and we call on it all the time, to be completely free, to go to elections, to plead there, and we're confident, in these conditions we win. We've been winning all these years, we're going to win, and now, I don't have a dilemma about that at all. You know who does? Well, those who are against the election being held under any conditions, those who want power on the street, those who openly say, and these Gilas, Alexici, Obradovici, etc., they say openly – we want to physically prevent the election process. Not that they won't go out on their own, not that they're going to invite their acquaintances and sympathisers not to vote, they want every man, an ordinary citizen who wants to go to the polls to physically prevent it. Now, that's a big difference. As we say, we want conditions that are indisputable and clear to every man and on which everyone will be able to be maximumly free, comfortable, relaxed, however you wish, to exercise their right, they speak the opposite. So, it's not something that needs to go to our burden primarily convinced in principle that it's the only thing that's right and good for Serbia, so whoever wins. In addition, we are confident, such arguments we have that simply competition by those who want power without choice, there is no. Third thing, they themselves are deeply aware that it is and have the right to stay at home as long as they want. What we've been repeating all along is don't endanger other people, or those of us who want to deal with this business seriously, or those of you who want to participate because you respect the state and its institutions, or anyone else. There is no one's dinar, euro or dollar, Gilasov, Jeremic, or Obradovic, which is worth one broken Serbian head, one destroyed glass on the institutions or tears of any child.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66382	Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66383	I believe I must be honest with the citizens, we must speak what preceded this proposal. The moment the extra-parliamentary opposition apparently led with logistics from the West to boycott the elections, that moment the president of parliament invited them to the talks where they were called not to accept any talks, they had nothing to talk about. Then they gave in a little bit, so they dictated their terms. It was just amazing. I'm telling you what the impression of most people in Serbia is, that someone who said -- just five million of you gathered in the street, I'm not going to give in, I'm not going to go over the democratic principles, I'm not going to step on the laws of this country that, in front of a group that, by the way, I'm going to say, has logistics in the West, so behaves, condescendingly to ask them to come to the talks. Then, look at the wonders, besides so much perseverance, there appears someone who is an NGO, someone who is for the promotion of democracy, imagine what kind of grotesque when Olja, or what's called Biljana Vuco Kovacevic, when Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko, when this whole gallery of anti-Serb characters appears and presses that there must be a conversation. What else is being imposed in the people rather than simply giving in. You let it go the worst way possible. You did not accept what we Serbian radicals suggested. If you had accepted, the conversation would have been between parliamentary parties. It is not a problem and representatives of other parties that are not in parliament, but NGOs are only the extended hand of their employers and you know it well. After all, the president of your party fought with us sincerely against the influence of such organisations, because we knew that they were on lists of both Russia and other countries as US intelligence services.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66384	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66385	Okay, now it's already slipping seriously into the insecure, that it's claimed that some late woman pushed us to do something this month. Please don't talk at that level on this subject. As for him who sought what was said, let me know. Let me tell you, the request of all the demands of the former regime of the one who wants power without a choice was that Alexander Vukic disappears from the political scene, even from the planet physically, see what they order from their headlines. And now, someone to say that we agreed to that kind of thing, so we never, never will. So, what your impotence will have to heal in some way. Either politics will deal with how it behaves or not, but to get us into a situation where we give up our leader, the President of the Republic, so he can do it to make them richer, to live to destroy another country, as little as anything they've done. It's not happening, it's not happening, it's not going to happen. As you can see, they have absolutely nothing to do with the election process, these people. We are talking to those who are interested, with the parliamentary opposition, the extraparliamentary opposition, some people who are said to be doing so professionally. Never mind, we're talking. We have nothing to talk to these people about for the simple reason they don't care about anything. What do they care? It's to be power, not to show up in the election at all. Did we agree to that? It's not. It didn't happen, and it's not gonna happen. That's all the answers to all the stories of whether we're under their pressure or not, I don't know who we've given in to. As far as we're concerned, he can comply with the law. As far as we're concerned, it can be consistent with what makes sense, some elemental, logical sense, and that's why I'm saying, there's nothing wrong and humiliating about these proposals. It writes nicely – it must react within three days, on call or the Agency must take action within 24 hours, which is terrible. These are all normal things that simply may not have been precise, so it was a question of whether this one would interpret it to have a day more or a day less, and this one who made some remarks, that he was angry, but that's all. When we talk about the level of punishment, is 50,000 dinars bigger, what's humiliating and terrible about it? These are all normal things and things that no one in Serbia is bothered with. What bothers many in Serbia is someone's ideas and I'll repeat that as many times as it takes. That he deserves to be given to God, to rule others, without whose support he has, that he, like Bosko Obradovic and his famous theory of stocks, should be appointed for all and glory in the country, and the others to be his subjects, to serve him and Gilas, and they to enjoy and to be additionally rich. They've had as little as they already have. It bothers people, it's unacceptable to the people. As the people ask themselves this question, they will not be able to do it, and as we ask ourselves, how will we always be the answer, the people wonder.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66386	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Milorad Mircic is entitled to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66387	The office for democracy and human rights is something that is a pseudonym for Biljana Vuko Kovacevic. She's physically dead. Physically, she is dead, but physically neither Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko, nor Natasa Kandić differs from her. They're walking corpses. Secondly, you have, did Arsic, you object to Natasa Kandic for packing many Serbs in The Hague and providing false witnesses. You're rebelling now, Arsic. Right? Now, these are your principles. That's how you do it. When you're praised by those from the west, you're right behind Arsic, who was a nationalist, radical, turning into Europeans. Now, that's your motto. Secondly, you gentlemen always have NGOs present. The NGOs are bringing you before the final act. They write you suggestions. You refuse to do so immediately. You remind us of the early 1990s when Slobodan Milosevic immediately refused any talks and negotiations at the beginning, and then as the time and phases of the negotiations took place he was falling more and more. We're scared. Secondly, don't talk, interpret what's not in the material. You here, I set an example, in public enterprises, it's enough for someone to report to the director that he lobbyed, pressured him to vote for his political option, enough to be exposed to checks, to be exposed to maltenes to public harassment. Secondly, how can you gentlemen allow people who are members of the government, so these are political figures from your political option, from your other coalition partners, to be denied from participating in the elections as is understood. Well, he's got a right, a political personality. What, snitching, to say – there, I saw him in the official car, he was in that place and that place. Well, he's got to report in three days. It's simply astonishing, we are surprised by the Serbian radicals that you accept these proposals, under the name of the NGO. It's the beginning of the end. Listen to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66388	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Now the right to replica has Veroljub Arsic, so Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66389	I report to the replica because I wanted to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly by my gesture, so I was called a traitor. You know, it's very morbid to mention dead people to influence political parties today. It's no big deal if someone made a mistake and said the name wrong, it's absolutely not a big deal, it happens. The heat of political struggle is like that. But afterwards, to insist on calling others dead, walking corpses are also morbid. I can say that he's a thief, that he's a traitor, that he's a thief, that this is what it is, but burying living people and reviving the dead is morbid. So that's why my gesture was about that story and mention, so I turned out to be a traitor. Furthermore, it is not true that the story that the colleague was telling, that the German occupation authorities in Serbia offered awards, etc. No, it happened in one of the former republics, SFRY. All I can say is that it's not Croatia, it's under Italian occupation, the Italian authorities did it, and when they saw how much they reported to each other for all sorts of nonsense, they canceled that award and they said, "Don't ever report to each other again." Now, I don't know if I'm afraid again that someone isn't reporting me as a traitor, but they called me that I betrayed Alexander Vukic, Serbia, and I don't know what else, so I don't know if anyone else is going to bury me while I'm alive. That's why I reacted the way I reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66390	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Legally speaking, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66391	First, I have to say that you're wrong when you say that the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights is some kind of NGO, and you mention the dead people in this relationship. So, the office is the office of the OSCE, the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. What is said in English in short – ODIR, it would be awkward in Serbian to pronounce it as a abbreviations, because it would sound KDILJP, but it refers to the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. So, with these people, he talks to the government's task force when he analyzes different measures. That is, therefore, the OSCE Office, the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. It's not the same thing as YUKO, which was a shortcut for the Committee of Lawyers, is it, for human rights, it's just not the same and it has nothing to do with each other. When you talk about something being controversial about this Bill on Public Enterprises, it means, in particular, that the whole member is who is said to be controversial, in Article 78, one point is added, so where you predict what is subject to sanctions, he says – if used, he means the director of a public enterprise, or he was familiar with the use, rather than taking the actions he is responsible for, to prevent the use of public enterprise resources for political purposes, against the prohibitions of Article 70(1) of this Law. It's simple, it says one thing that's simple to understand. The Director shall not use the public resources of the undertaking he manages or, with the silent consent, allow someone else to do so for political purposes. For this everyone will tell you that it's perfectly fine, people agree. A public company shouldn't waste its resources on such things. This has nothing to do with political activity in either pre-election or before or after the campaign. He doesn't need a public firm, he doesn't serve it. Everyone's going to tell you that there's nothing controversial here. So I'm saying, this sounds like an attempt to make a big pomp and a heavy topic where it's not there. There are those things that are controversial and deserve to be used big words and to show serious concern, but it's not this. These things that are controversial and which should seriously concern everyone are calls not to apply a single democratic principle, are calls not to vote in the elections, are calls to not respect any institutions, but to collapse, destroy, as the Parliament was tried by Obradovic and these other Gilas, to break in, as they had already broken into the RTS, to then what they had said, burned down, burned everything, hit the police there, some burning Parliament, as they had already set it on fire, has been around 20 years. These are serious things, that's what every honest and decent citizen needs to worry about. If we have to condemn something together, it's not how many days it takes to react when something is registered or how many thousands of dinars more or less it needs to cost, it should be common concern whether we want peace, stability, decent country of good people, honest people, who take care of themselves, build their future, build their economy and make our perspective more likely, or want the hatred, destruction and violence that only Gilas, his courtesans and those others who are with them. It's the only dilemma here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66392	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Milorad Mircic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66393	According to us, Serbian radicals, it's all the same, whether they're called Yukom, whether they're called committees, offices, agencies, all the same. There's no difference between them, and you see how you deal with them. We draw your attention from good intentions to what you know. As far as loyalty is concerned, let me tell this colleague, we are different. When it comes to political principles, there are those who are consistent, and there are those who are recognizable in the people by the consistency and loyalty of any policy or idea. But that's quite understandable. The point here is much bigger things when it comes to elections. It should stop buying votes from Serbian citizens. Rigorous measures and penalties should be imposed for those who use such methods. You need to break up the so-called. Bulgarian trains, where the already rounded ballot is given, and returns empty. It should be prevented that those who are not direct participants and are not directly involved in elections to determine anything or to be proportionate. You left it all behind and you don't care. That's what the yellow ones used to do. You remember how they were liquefied, how they were schnibbled, how they explained that the people alone supported them, that there was no way anyone could replace them in the next period. You saw them disappear overnight. She's gone for the best of luck and the party. Don't get involved in another person's accident without taking lessons. It's not far. Don't get so beat up that they won't find you or anyone else. The elections must be a true reflection of the will of citizens, not the purchasing power of certain political organisations, which has been present since 2000. Unfortunately, it is present and do not think it will do Serbia any good. He may want individuals, he may want individual parties, but Serbia won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66394	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Right on line, Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66395	I'd like a list of those registered for discussion, if that's all right. It's on the speaker list. Milorad Mircic: On what basis, I did not mention him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66396	He's got a right to speak, Comrade Mircucci, don't say that. He's right, it's up. You've completed the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66397	I like it best when my colleague's surprised. That's what I like best when it's too teethy. It's kind of my favorite. But first, I must point out that the electoral conditions in the Republic of Serbia from the introduction of a multiparty system to today have never been better than they are today. Let's get this straight. And all those who complain about some shortages in the electoral system. We can talk about it, but someone's cheating on them in the election today, a little harder. I can say that's the only reason he can't accept the fact that certain political parties or political leaders of citizens simply won't. Well, it's their law, it's their legislation, it's their election conditions. The electoral conditions they prescribed themselves while they were in power. The only Law on selecting MPs, which was passed in 1999 and was brought by consensus then by all parliamentary parties, in 2000, I apologized, in November of the month, was the result of the consensus of all political parties and all the changes we have had here since 2000 were amendments that were intended to bring the law into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court or with constitutional provisions of the law itself. I am surprised that some colleagues are attacking the part where a public official should not put pressure on his employees, that is, the body in which he is acting as manager. As far as I know, even when the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was, the first text, that it was prohibited in that law by the influence of management in public enterprises, public administration authorities, local self-government authorities and autonomous province bodies. It's been set in 2000. I, I don't know why that provision bothers anyone now, and in 2000 he voted in favour of the provisions of that law. Now what I'd like to talk about, the set of these electoral laws, is also the law on funding political activities. The biggest problem with this law is that the law was written by those who never participated in any political activity. The law was adopted on the basis of recommendations, not the European Commission, but based on recommendations from representatives of civil society who wrote the law to the former regime and which, in practice, is largely inapplicable to its provisions. Then we have a problem with the clarity of funding political activities. To the Serbian advanced party, it never meant those provisions that we could not comply with, we didn't want to apply them, but only those general provisions of the law, and therefore, according to the DRI findings, SNS has its own financial accounts, financial operations according to the law. We had the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is, and which monitors the implementation of that law. We have one obviously big problem that seems to me to have been in the Agency itself, which is that a large number of political entities directly paid in cash funded their election campaigns. We had a situation where the Agency didn't respond, that it didn't write any additional requests for information, that it wasn't looking for whoever rented the billboard and put a picture of Dragan Gilas, that he wasn't looking for whoever paid cash on certain television, that he wasn't looking for who paid in cash for certain posters, not to mention further. Remember only the choices when the current Law on the financing of political activities was applied in 2012 and 2014, and even in 2016 when they were definitely when Gilas took his political party into debt slavery which he is now using. Just remember how many propaganda messages there were, billboards for which there was never a single written word or contract as they were found, where they were found. But the Anti-Corruption Agency did not react at the time. We now come to the fact that it often doesn't matter what the law is, but we come to the fact that it's much more important to do the law. I'm asking one other question, and where do you get all that money to finance these activities and not report that money to the Anti-Corruption Agency? Well, that's the money that Dragan Gilas collected in the same way as Bastac collects it, by racketeering, by kidnapping. Does anyone really think that Marko Bastac was a lonely case in the DS or former regime that recruited citizens who were involved in illegal construction, which allowed them to deal with illegal construction and charge a lot of money for it? Now, from there they've funded their political activities and all these billboards, so I guess now that they're losing power, they're not doing well with election conditions, because, my God, there's less and less ways to fund a political campaign that Dragan Gilas or representatives of the former regime. I guess this law on funding political activities, which they voted for and which they brought in, is probably why they wanted it to be inapplicable, so that they would in this way spend the money they took from Serbian citizens to preserve their authorities while holding elections. Also, it's theirs, let me say, the only big grudge. They probably saw it as they participated in the elections, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018, invented this functional campaign that is now in the proposals of these laws. I'm here asking a question that is more in the domain of political theory - and what is the purpose of politics? I suppose it is the purpose of policy-making to come to power and implement your political programme and depending on how you have implemented your political programme, in the next elections that citizens decide whether to give you trust or not for the next four years. I think it's right in politics. And then we get what's called. A functional campaign, where the manager who came on the basis of the transferable sovereignty of citizens cannot say that - I did so when I was a minister or director of a large public enterprise, because that money he uses belongs to all Serbian citizens, or that public enterprise belongs to all citizens of Serbia, so he abuses public resources. I suppose someone has imagined in his mind that the state should deal with individual cases and spend all its strength and energy on it, and that it should not deal with general conditions for the development of society in all areas, including economic and tax, investment and other forms. Well, I guess, if he was able to run this, that minister, that president of the state, to create such conditions for businesses and citizens, he probably has the right to say - yes, I did, I helped it, yes, by means of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but we created conditions that they too have the means to invest in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. No, that's what the former regime was baptizing as a functioning campaign. And you know why? Because their results are different. We can talk about factories that were literally broken down while they were in power, which are now sheds in decline. Would if they showed up in front of them be a functional campaign? Because their merits and their factories failed and sold for debauchery and the citizens lost their jobs. Well, I'd be obliged by the former regime for every closed factory to appear in front of that closed factory, while they were in power, especially these enterprises in restructuring that were closing and selling, to appear there if they wanted to be on the list. To show citizens their results. And not to be allowed by Dragan Gilas before the local elections in 2012 to allow me to play a fully reconstructed Gazela, because before that, the construction of the Ada Bridge was completed. Because if the reconstructed Gazel is released in traffic, it will be seen that the Adi Bridge has failed to meet the expectations and promises that Dragan Gilas was making, that he will disperse Gazela and facilitate the citizens' passage through the Sava. Is this a functional campaign? So why didn't Dragan Gilas do it then? What? Not to see how he spent money on six bridges, made one, which failed to meet expectations, and also forbids the other to be fully reconstructed in full function, so that he has a good result in the Belgrade elections. It's a real example of a functioning campaign. This is a real example of abuse of public funds. Because you're hiding a mistake, on the one hand, and on the other hand you don't let citizens use what they paid for their money, so you don't accidentally lose political points. Well, that's Dragan Gilas. And he, through that black, non-governmental, civil sector or whatever it is called, the Lines and all others, are trying to participate in the legislative process. They set very different conditions than they are in the laws here. I'd rather not tell you. Those who did not participate in these negotiations. They also requested the formation of transitional authorities, transitional governments, to name temporary ministers from only the opposition, that the presidents of the municipalities resign, the mayors to resign, that members of the municipal and city councils resign, all of them asked for it. We have only more clearly defined certain concepts and this is not the merit of this civil sector being attacked by the Serbian Progressive Party, because I will always appoint all representatives of the civil sector - and where is their legitimacy to participate in the legislative process? As I asked this same question to civil sector representatives who attended the opening of chapters when it comes to Serbia's membership in the EU -- where is your legitimacy, if you did not fully implement the EU's legislation to open chapters? Never will, at least not while the SNS is in power, the civil sector participates in law-making. This will be done by MPs on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not on behalf of the civil sector. And no pressure can force SNS and SNS MPs to take one such step as expected. One more thing to clarify - representatives of the former regime have been offered talks here at the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly has repeatedly called for talks. I must remind you which was the answer - we will not accept SNS talks except that Maja Gojkovic resigns, Ana Brnabic resigns, Nebojsa Stefanovic resigns, and some also asked Aleksandar Vukic to resign. Now, under these conditions, they would accept the talks. Since these conditions are not met, and not the electoral ones they are talking about, they are now not going to go to the polls, and the merry one from Boška Obradovic wants to relight the Assembly, I guess again, as they faked the results of the election for the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 2000, forger the results of the elections to be held in 2020. We will support these laws in the voting day because we want the Republic of Serbia to advance its electoral legislation and indeed to show the will of every citizen, his every wish to whom he would give his trust, and that those who wish to participate in the election process have equal rights. Now, what citizens some recognize as people who cared about the state and the interests of citizens, that's one thing, which some recognize as thieves who only cared about their own interests, that's another thing, but that's not the SNS problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66398	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66399	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66400	Let me ask you first, when you were informing the Eurocasts yesterday that you confirmed the Agreement, did you inform them that for an hour and a half you didn't have a quorum for the beginning of the session, so that the quorum was given to you by the Chankovs and those from some SMS party known for stealing mandates from the list that they entered the National Assembly? You've been trying to convince the public here for two days now, of course you know that you can't, and no, God, and the public, you're going to have a hard time changing these three or four laws because you realize that something needs to change in these laws and that no one from abroad has affected it, especially non-governmental organizations. That, of course, is not true. While we discussed this, as a member of the Committee, I received, as well as other members, a table of meeting obligations. That's what it says - the meeting table. You're scheduled to meet again for 12th and 13th with this Kukan, Flakenstein, Fabrizia, and I don't know who's coming to you. In that table, the obligations you've been given are these four laws. There are, of course, all that RIK does, there is the Supervisory Board, which otherwise exists in the law, but you did not know what the law says until they gave you, until Milan Antonijevic brought you together, your pro-European authority, with the pro-European opposition, and then you were there to impress them to come to the National Assembly and accept everything you were told. Then Antonijevic, who is the successor of Biljana Kovacevic Vuco, boasts about social networks how easy it is to be a moderator to a group of people who are about the same-minded when it comes to electoral conditions, etc. It's you and that pro-European opposition, he says. He also says he is proud, participated in the drafting of these laws, but is particularly proud to have participated in the drafting of the law under which Kostunica released 1,300 Shipatarian terrorists, including this Kurti. If you really wanted to bring this paper into these bill proposals, then you would have, for example, done it on May 29th this year. That's when you changed the Anti-Corruption Act. How come you didn't remember to enter into the law what you've introduced now? Because this isn't your will, it's what they ordered you to do, and you're just doing it. But you've been trying to do something here all day and yesterday, since this is being talked about, you're trying to say that someone in these laws has, like, acted like they won't participate in the election campaign, and it's the opposite. With these laws, Branko Ruzic may not be able to participate in the campaign with his official car, but he wants Vukic, wants Nebojsa Stefanovic, wants Dacic, wants Bata Gasic, wants Vulin, all those who are protected by law. It says exactly here that protected persons can use all the resources. Here, you will be damaged, you will not have Jadranka Joksimovic and Vanja Udovic participating in the campaign. So this is one big scam. These laws don't change anything essentially. Nowhere in this law, none of these proposals states that public enterprises and public officials are prohibited, otherwise, to provide packages of food for voters, packages of hygiene products, pajamas, such as, I don't know, in Ojacs, umbrellas, glasses for vision, free medical examinations, fake medical examinations. We informed the Agency of our time, of course no one responded, that in Batajnica there was a woman in a white coat in your party's rooms, pressure criteria, you invited people to come, she says – free pressure measure. She says, yes, it's a little high pressure, it's a little low, take this medicine, take this medicine. At some point, a woman comes in and says, "Oh, what are you doing here?" These all, like, how does she know her? Well, he knows her because she works as a salesman in a Chinese store. So, you've done a lot of things, and you'll still be doing a lot of things in the campaign. These laws won't change. In general, what you accepted, this farce of a state official, in 2010, was introduced, you're going to say it wasn't you, but it was all accepted, what does a state official even mean? Can't the minister and this, the director of the public enterprise of both, this and that, the secretary of state hides something under public officials, and then here you explain what a public resource is and what a public official is, what he can and can't do in an election campaign. How is it possible, for example, that no one thinks they should stop the state because elections will be called, but how do you think what is written here is possible in part, that, say, you call, it opens up there some time, and then you organize buses and buses of people to applaud, which you normally do? Of course, we don't blame you, it's your right to use money that's party money. Now, if you're abused because someone has to drive you, that's another thing. So, when they come to applaud, at 15 o'clock, the trip opens, at 16 o'clock and 15 minutes the party meeting starts, at 16 o'clock the work hours are over, how do you plan not to use public resources, not to abuse people employed in public enterprises, that's what you're going to do? Here he says, the responsible director of the public company will be punished if he does not react. Oh, my God, it's a serious punishment. He'll answer if he doesn't report that someone's gone, that someone's taking part in a party event, etc. This may be true for some who will attend party gatherings that are not yours. At your party meetings you will continue to run employees in public enterprises and local self-government just as you have done so far. Don't say it's not true and talk about how wonderful and wonderful everything is when you're alone through these discussions saying what good these laws will do, how much justice will be in the election campaign. The minister said, I wrote down his thought, that these laws are being proposed to ensure equal conditions in the elections. What does that all mean? So so far there have been no equal conditions, so far there have been no good conditions for elections based on what we've heard from colleagues from the government and you're now, like, this way you're going to change something. All the problems that exist in the election processes we Serbian radicals explain to the public since the multi-party system was introduced. Remember, here's a colleague who brought a blue bag of DS into the National Assembly and pulled rice, oil, sugar, flour out of that bag. He got that bag from some woman in a place where he lives, now he can bring the same bag, just not the DS logo anymore, but the parties that are now in power, because that's what you gentlemen do. As for cash, you buy voters and insult people's dignity, but people live so hard that they unfortunately accept something like that. How do you explain the guardians of the national treasure, you, the guardians of democracy, public enterprises, state public resources, as you explain, ministers, here you are, as resolute minister, did you do anything in the name of what we said here in the media, that 500 hats were purchased in Rakovica municipality, 600 jackets, 600 vests, 600 duks, 600 t-shirts, just not yet the logo of the party written, all for 200 employees, of which on the ground is maybe 10? Do you have an answer to that question? Do you have an answer to the question of what gets out of the warehouses in front of the Zemun municipality every day in the trucks loading and driving on your local boards? Do you think you don't know that? Do you know how far it goes to abuse these public resources, which will also be continued? The city of Belgrade is in winter getting certain quantities of industrial salt to be thrown to cool down the street. Imagine you, it's unloaded, for example. in the municipality of Zemun, and it applies to other municipalities where you are in power and then the presidents of your local committees come, bring the neighbors, and they say, "Here, the party assures you that you can take two bags to take out of your staircase." People, ever since they were introduced, since there's been a multiparty election in Serbia, things have been happening, and believe me, you've perfected everything that's happened decades before you. These laws are farces. These laws were ordered by that National Convention for the EU, which is the biggest national disgrace. Do you know why? Because there was Sonja Licht, Milan Antonijevic, who organizes "Mirdita", who organizes the promotion that there was genocide in Srebrenica, there was such a play in Kolarc. They've been questioned here by the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the Minister. It's not that they personally humiliated themselves in front of them, it's because they're government officials and they humiliated the state. What they told you, you took it faster, you took it better through these bill proposals, and what we of the SRS have been telling you for three years, you get in, you get out. That's the problem, that you don't understand what parliament is, or what parliamentary democracy is. That's the problem, which is what you once resented to some, you're doing even faster, stronger, better, and you're not thinking about being what you are forever, and you're also going to have problems if someone comes after you and takes care of themselves, and then they say, "This is what someone brought before me, we're not going to change this." So, we're not going to vote for these laws, nor are these laws making any difference. Serbian citizens should also know, they should take care of their dignity, in the next elections let them vote on their conscience, let them not vote on who will bring them pounds of salt, kilograms of sugar, flour, oils, etc., because these are the parties buying money that citizens themselves pay in the budget. So, don't fall for it, choose who you want, but don't be fooled by that story when the officials are in four and 15, at some rally, that it's not a convention where that official speaks, but it's up to four hours a functionator, and then he's just a party official. So, no farce, no hypocrisy. Say, brother, we're the government, our officials will participate in the campaign, and that's normal. And that's normal. We're not hypocrites like you to talk about one thing, and the other we do. (President: I thank you. Why are you government rather than show yourself to the people what you've done, but all of you, don't send just one to whom you've allowed this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66401	First, the minister has the word, Mr Branko Ruzic, then the right to the replica Vladimir Orlic, then Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66402	Thank you. After this inspiring, truly, public exposure, I want to point out what the government of Serbia is responsible for the amendments and additions to these four laws, so the Law on the financing of political activities, on the prevention of corruption, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Law on Public Enterprises. Of course, any political option presented in this parliament has the legitimate right to have its own political programme, some programmes include Europhylia, some Europhobia, and this is not at all controversial and this approach, which is in some way nihilistic towards these European values, is something that also merits the attention of a number of Serbian citizens, who certainly voted for that political option. But because of that second part of Serbia's citizens and because of our successful co-operation and with the European Security and Co-operation Organisation and with the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, and given the fact that these missions are here from 2003 to 2017, even today, and have made certain recommendations, these recommendations have been incorporated into certain legal solutions. We, of course, want to improve the electoral process and ensure equal conditions. Of course, that's the ideal for every democratic society to seek, including the Serb democratic society, and I think it's something that's completely natural. With these changes and additions, we're getting closer to that ideal. I don't see any problem with just nuance and certain precision making this election process more advanced, and that's something that I guess is a commitment to all of us. But in order not to in one way, I would say, an inappropriate way to talk about something that is really very serious, I would remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia has always been open, and of course the ruling party, both for dialogue and for talks. We have confirmed this not by the budgets, but also by the FPN, of course, I have returned the dialogue to the place where it should be, this home, therefore, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the invitation of the President of Parliament. In parallel with this, the working group of the Government was formed and of course all of those recommendations that we thought could contribute to the improvement of the electoral process were also incorporated into these bill proposals, but also to some other measures that the RIK and some other ministries would take. I'll just point out that it's for example. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government had five points that we felt were important precisely to improve the electoral process itself. This is the opening of a special site and we have done so on the official internet presentation of the Ministry and have practically provided all relevant information relating to the management and update of the single electoral list, so basic information in terms of how to register and update this official record, and then, regulations from this area, as well, contact details of persons in charge of legal and technical issues, to which citizens, as well as authorised officials to manage the single electoral list, can address all issues in this area, two hodograms, which we have defined in how the procedure is explained. How much time do I have? (President: You have unlimited. I thank you. I forgot. I haven't sat on this side in a while. Also, the link through which citizens will be able to check whether they are listed in a unique polling list etc. We've trained authorized persons to run a single polling list. The first training took place in Belgrade as early as September, where 175 authorised persons from 130 municipalities and towns participated. Since there was really great interest, we held six other trainings in smaller groups at the Serbian-Korean Information Centre, where a total of 193 authorised persons and 119 municipalities and cities attended. Those trainings have really produced results. We have been working on the training of the matriarchs and substitutes, in order, first of all, in order to update their conduct, to provide data that is originally kept in the register of parent books, which again affect the accuracy and completeness and timing of the conduct of the single electoral list, in terms of the delivery of these data to the authority responsible for the adoption of solutions based on changes in the electoral list, and there were 279 matrimonaries and deputies and 102 municipalities or the city. Also, as part of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, on the basis of the government's conclusion, we have practically ordered the Government to carry out extraordinary inspection controls on the application of the rules governing the single electoral list and, practically, since September, 261 inspection controls have been carried out with a total of 624 measures to remove certain irregularities, illegalities, shortcomings in work. I also want to say, for the sake of the public, because maybe someone will abuse it, so now I'm saying that you did it in September, we've been doing it all year, and before that, they've been doing both regular and extraordinary inspection surveillance. We do this in continuity, and that is why we say that the unique voter list has never been more up-to-date, and that the next day will already be much more up-to-date, above all, thanks to the process of digitisation, importing and the parent books of weddings and parent books that died with a unique voter list. Also, 144 extraordinary inspection controls have been carried out so far over the application of regulations governing a single voter's list. The fifth point, and these are not, as is said here, obligations, so these are the measures that the task force has proposed and that we meet. So, as far as the Resoring Ministry is concerned, we had five measures. All five of us are done. The fifth is the creation of a manual for the implementation of the Single Election List Act, which will in any case greatly facilitate the work of authorised persons working on a single polling list. In that sense, I do not see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has in any way taken unserious approach to meeting the needs of those who bear the sovereignty or sovereignty of this country, which is all of us, therefore, citizens and citizens of this country. I believe that, as we have done so far, as we do, as we will continue, it is our obligation, in one responsible way, to imitate this electoral environment itself with democratic procedures and with those needs that citizens have. I certainly accept every kind of criticism. I laughed a little while ago when I heard there was some industrial salt here, some hats and some other stuff. I don't know if you've spoken to me or to the representatives, in general, of ruling structures, and that's why, on the one hand, I'm that no one is offended, I mean, at least a little right, because it's certainly true that we're trying to ensure equal conditions for all the participants and to improve this election process and certainly it's an ideal that we're seeking. So I'm saying that with these changes and additions we're getting closer to that ideal, and if we want to be honest, of course nothing can ever end up ideally either. It is important to be honest, but it should also be responsible for politics. Of course, I don't mind anyone putting out criticism in any way, but these criticisms should also have grounds in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66403	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66404	It's interesting, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, how, here, by one, first, we hear something terrible, drastically changing these bill proposals, how it's unacceptable, how it's destroying the electoral process, to finally conclude what we heard earlier. They say - no, nothing really changes and nothing will be better, nothing else, and everything will be, as they say, a disaster, as it was before. If that's the final conclusion, I say, it's fun how that structure developed, but it's not true. Before we finish the debate on how it was and how it was practice and what it really meant or doesn't mean, one thing, the National Convention, we don't have to agree on whether there should be, whether the National Assembly should cooperate with it, we think that, but we should know, it doesn't just mean those organisations that are dealing with issues that may be controversial, that it concerns politics in any way or human rights, but it involves different professional associations. There are good reasons that the National Assembly is working with them, but when it has its own meeting, like what was said earlier, attended by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, so the last thing you can say is that someone questioned Alexander Vukic here. Look at the free footage of all of you who are interested in this topic, so you will see that Alexander Vukic gave a lesson in democracy, but also in state relations to everyone at that meeting who wanted to talk to him about any topic. We're very proud of his keeping at every opportunity, even in that. As far as the election story is concerned, everything has been said here and the cash money has been mentioned, various food products, personal hygiene, etc. Now it turns out that's what determines how people vote, that's what directly affects the results of the election, so whoever does it wins, and whoever doesn't win. In fact, it has nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all know very well, even those who say this, and of course they're just making up excuses for their own ratings, they know that things are completely different, that we're doing something different. Serbia is full of examples like the famous "alarm of the ambassador" and when it happened in some past times to come one and say, "I will pave the way for you to this point, and when you vote for me, I will continue, and it will not be paved for ever and ever." You know why? The people won't vote that way and won't let their voice sell that way. (President: Bring the end. Or that -- here's one freak for you now, and the other for you after the election, so you never get away from that other freak. I was personally present on a street in Barajev that its residents say was coming here, there's nothing they've given us, they've paved the street, the former regime, Gilas and his men, and they've only told us that you're voting for us. Do you know how many votes Gilas and you got in those elections? I see you know. Zero. What does that tell you? The people vote the moment they enter behind the cover, they take the ballot, based on what's on their hearts. There's no way... (President: I thank you, colleague Orlic. )......................................................................................................... Whatever someone said to him nice or ugly, before that moment, to affect the decision of the man they're going to vote for. When you know that, you understand that Alexander Vukic and the SNS win because it is what the people want and there is no way to force people not to vote for those they love and support, just as there is no way to make them vote for the former regime and destroyers of everything in Serbia. People know what they want based on it... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... And the results we have are what we have. If he's not satisfied with his ratings, he doesn't have to be satisfied, but let him remind himself of how and why.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66405	The People's MP, Neđo Jovanovic, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66406	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Associates, there's one thing we don't understand here. It is not clear to whom this criticism is addressed. If it's sent to the authorities, it's sent to the wrong address. The government only corrects what was done in the previous period. What else do we do but correct electoral laws that are vague, inaccurate, unspeakable, perhaps to some extent and pointless, but we correct them? We are correcting to improve the electoral process, on the one hand, and on the other hand to provide citizens with absolute democratic capacity when they exercise their electoral right. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has the right to choose and be elected, but this right will not be achieved safely on the basis of food products that my esteemed colleague Orlic has absorbed, but on the basis of other parameters that are verifiable, which are accurate, hundreds of kilometers of highways, to major investments, to what is most important for Serbia, which is the withdrawal of the recognition of 17 member states, not only the EU, but the UN. Thus, a huge number of countries that have withdrawn recognition suggests that all the countries in the world are already beginning to think on the globe and very seriously whether Kosovo can have state status or not. Serbia will certainly not stop on that road, and Serbia will certainly not stray from that path to the final goal, and that goal is to protect Serbia's integrity. What is certainly important, which is the citizens of Serbia and how well they recognize, these issues referred to by the authorities, why are they not addressed to those who are to sit on this right, and they are not there? They are not because they replaced democracy with the street, because the confrontation of attitudes and arguments here, in this parliament, replaced the testicles in the RTS building, replaced the masts and flags in a violent attempt to enter parliament. Those questions need to be asked. As for the authorities and coalitions and all parties participating in the coalition, we have no single problem with looking citizens in the eyes and saying - what has been done is done, and the citizens will exercise their right to vote where the electoral right is exercised, and that is in their polling stations. We are confident that, when it comes to the SPS, their right to verify and evaluate the work of the SPS as part of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66407	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66408	Here's the minister right and fellow MPs are right, they should just answer a few key questions we've been talking about. How did it not occur to you that the Anti-Corruption Act, which you changed on May 29th, this year, did not change the way you're changing now? It still seems to me like you did it because you have to. The minister says we don't have to. This is what they write to us - respected for the third round of inter-party dialogue, with the intervention of the European Parliament, which takes place on 13 December, in addition to the table on meeting obligations on 6.12. So you didn't do something because you wanted to, because you thought it was in the interest, I don't know what, but because it's an obligation. That's what it says here. The minister had a dilemma that I was thinking about when I talked about getting industrial salt and saying that he thought this was funny, getting hats and sets of pre-election equipment to jackets, hoods and all that stuff in Rakovica, and what industry is being shared through the local committees of parties in power. Well, here's the minister, you say you don't know exactly who I was talking to, so you think it's funny if I were this coalition partner of yours, if I were you, then maybe it wouldn't be funny. Here you can see, find out, since it's in the same building, in Kosovo, in Zemun and one and the other you have rooms, and you tell us next time, which of you, through the local boards every Friday, shares free car seats for children, and from that address comes you say that my debate was inspiring to you, so, ministers talk about Europhobia, doesn't know what, about nihilistic some attitudes, we Serbian worked against Serbia's entry into the EU and that's something the birds on the branch know. But not only do you want to join the EU, which won't, but you're humiliating the country. You've allowed the EU's order to draw, CESID, Transparency is setting you up as a political cap. You say we have returned to parliament a debate on electoral conditions. When? When are those who won't sit here when they refuse to come to your university of political science? What did you accept? That's what I'm asking my colleagues and you. For accepting this humiliation, for you to mix the parliamentary debate out of this room, so when they refused you, where you were, when you had some of your special conditions, then you, as God of Democrats, returned the debate to the National Assembly. It is not good what you are doing, and we are talking about it and we have been talking about it since the beginning of the Assembly of this Parliament. We point to the wrong Law on Elections in those two key members. One is that you must return the constitutional provision to the Law on the selection of MPs, that the MP may have his mandate, that he is free to place his mandate at the disposal of the list from which he was elected MPs. You didn't want to. Why? Because yesterday, those who stole your mandate came to you and gave you a quorum. You are still half a year from the end of the mandate and cannot secure the quorum, and Eurostat is waiting on the tram to move towards the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66409	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66410	I thank the chairman. For the sake of fact, this government has done much for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and no one can doubt that. As for us, the MPs that we are participating in power, we have done much to raise democratic capacity in Serbia, not only through these electoral laws that we are discussing, but through what has just been criticised as being directed by the authorities. Did we invite these on the other side as part of the opposition that replaced the assembly with the street, did we invite them to come here and discuss the laws? We did. Did they come here? As you can see, they're not. Is he coming? We don't know. As far as I'm concerned, they don't have to, but it's important that Serbia and a democratic picture of Serbia be here. It is obvious that they do not want it, and thus deliberately trying to bring down the image of democratic Serbia. We won't let them. We won't let ourselves be here and committed to doing our job, but we're not clear about why we're talking to the opposition. So who do we need to talk to, if not them? Whether they accept that the conversation is being conducted here or elsewhere, we will always talk, but we will always invite them to come here at the same time, because here is the place to talk, because here is where we should be able to improve the laws we are discussing. Whoever doesn't, doesn't understand, doesn't want it, is his problem, but he can't make one thing, which is to destroy the state, it's that he's violently trying to get into the Assembly, it's that he's trying to bring down the institutions of the system, it's that calling for freedom of the media destroys media assets, that's all that means undermining Serbia. I don't want to qualify anyone in any way in the criminal sense of the words, because for this, the competent institutions, the superjudicial institutions of the judiciary, but I don't understand that these same judicial institutions did not respond to violence, especially violence in front of the Assembly, violence when it tried to violently enter the door, hitting glass from the Serbian Parliament's front door. Isn't that an act of illegal action and a crime enough? Personally, I think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66411	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66412	Here's what we've shown by entering that dialogue. A few things very important. First, we showed that they, the former regime, don't really care about any dialogue, that it doesn't matter what time or place it is, or whether someone's going to be in the role of a mediator or not, which we're going to approach in order to do what anybody says, they don't care. They don't really care about any dialogue. They said they had some things to suggest, that something was controversial, could be improved, etc. All the stupid things they said, so the story comes down to us showing, not running away from the dialogue, we want to run it, and then they're locked away from it, and they're not interested in it at all. Do you know why? Because they've shown that one single honest argument doesn't have one. Because they've shown hard ignorance, ignorance of the law, ignorance of election practice. They showed that the hollows from wherever you look and, of course, escaped. The second thing we've shown, we have nothing to fear, we have nothing to be ashamed of or worried about, we're completely clean, our conscience is calm. We win because it's a people's will, not because there's any mechanism that's going to give someone a head start. We were never interested in that, nor was it, once again, anything that ruled, the will of every man, the citizen of this country, the moment he came behind the cover and decided by his own conscience who he would support. We've shown these things. Let me tell you, Mr. Jovanovic, I'm sure he won't. You know why? Because they well concluded that they absolutely did not pay to take part in this debate with us. Since they didn't have arguments in dialogue, it doesn't matter where, they didn't have it in this room either. You know, a group of former regimes with whom the ratings entered this session? When it all came together, they were maybe 20, 20, and something like all together in a crowd like that. Do you know what their total rating is all about getting together today? If it's 8%, it's a lot of them. What's he saying? Facing arguments with us, they have politically suffered defeat for defeat, looks at the people and see, whatever they say is wrong, whatever we say we have a basis, we're right. And then, one year, the second, the third, and they, they kill us in the debate, we better get out of our way and complain, lie about having nowhere to talk, but to talk, and we got a place to talk, and we got nothing to say. That's why I'm convinced, they won't show up. What are they gonna do? The only thing they can do, that wave of them, that winking of them, that's all they have to offer at this point, and the RTS, and the Presidency, and the National Assembly, which will be fourth place, we can ask ourselves to think about, but besides that, they won't be able to do anything else, because they're obviously not able to offer Serbia anything better than what they've had to show up to now. At the very end, without one dinar in the campaign, many parties, in years behind us, were able to get 20% and 30%, remember those times. So, it's not the essence of what you're going to offer someone materially, it's not even the essence of what you're going to tell them, it's the trust of the people. The people believe those who show that they are honest people, who show that they are honest in what is called a political struggle, that they are at heart, that they love Serbia and their people, and that they can provide some result for that people. Those thieves, those criminals who looked only at themselves, and destroyed this people thoroughly, and humiliated this country in every place, the people not to look. They can offer him anything today, they can lie to him and milk him from morning till nightfall, the people won't at the moment when everyone with their safety stands behind the cover he decides, and therefore they win the work, the results and love of the country, which is why they win Alexander Vukic and SNS, and the money doesn't miss these millionaires, they never miss them, and that money won't bring them the people, because our people aren't for sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66413	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66414	It is the obligation of the competent state authorities to create conditions for fair elections, not to bribe voters, to in any way not affect the electoral will, except, of course, by addressing voters, and whether or not someone will participate in the elections is his business. Whether someone as a MP will sit in the National Assembly, it is also his business, or political decision. You're always complaining about why you're not here, so you agreed to go, you said you wanted to talk and then you went to the Faculty of Political Sciences. Well, you could've been invited to the raft by some to go there and do that election dialogue. So, this is the only place, and that you accept whatever anyone offers you to turn out to be big Europeans, it's a big problem for the country, as is the big problem with what the minister boasts, says, they've been training these people who'll be working on the voting list in training and I don't know those for elections, they. Do you hire people with a professional exam or catch them on the street and then take them to training? If someone passes an expert exam for work in the authorities of the administration, I really don't see what you need special, do you give them any certificates? What happens if you try to train someone to work on the ballots so something doesn't exactly work out as you expected, what happens? He's gonna get fired, what? That's what you do, here's what the RIK started training working bodies from all over Serbia, and these working bodies will then follow instructions to members of election committees. Yesterday, RIK gave some certificates to those people who came from Serbia for that training. You know how pointless that is. Everything says in the law, lawyers hold elections as members of the RIK. What kind of extra exercises are these? It's really something amazing. You act, you let him experiment with you all the time. Instead of serious about your work, seriously listening to us as an opposition political party, not to whine about some before, and especially not you who were before what you are now. It doesn't work. It's degutant. It is degutant now to tell us what someone is like, as a colleague said earlier, some minister who has promised to pave one corner, after the election, the other, etc. It is said in Serbia that it was said by Velja Ilic, your minister. So wherever you go, they're all yours, one way or the other. But let's let it go now, let these next choices really go to the polls to get the signatures first and foremost. Do not collect signatures with small parties, as you do to foreigners or small parties, as has already been done in some local elections. Let truly the political arena and in these elections, let people vote on the basis of their own conscience. Remove this law on the ban on employment in state authorities. Don't keep people for three months at a certain time, so on election day everyone will have to bring you a picture on the phone with ten ballots where they voted for you. We're not just saying this to talk, this is the living truth. People complained to us, she says – I want to cut off my hand, and I have to vote for these because they promised the maid that they would hire her permanently if she brought ten votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66415	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66416	The government only won't let him talk to the opposition on the street, because we don't belong on the street, and we won't talk in that way or on the raft or anywhere. Did we talk at the Faculty of Political Sciences? We did, and what's the issue? What you esteemed colleagues, Orlic and Martinovic, have heard wisely from the opposition in these talks except for pulsism, demagogy and untruths that have been placed, allegedly well-intentioned representatives of the European community. I, dear fellow Members of the People and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, want to ask you something, where is the appeal, where is the call for a truly good intention towards dialogue between the opposition and the authorities when it comes to the European community? What keeps demagogy spreading? Why are parties divided into similar and unsuitable? What makes the government unspeakable and the opposition similar? What is the reason for the government's demand to open media and freedom of the media, but is not condemned when it attacks on these same media? Nowhere has there been a conviction by representatives of the European community, that someone has violently entered the most respectable public service, RTS and that with saws. Has there been a conviction and a very clear, transparent that someone tried to enter parliament with violence, a criminal act, an attack on security services? Has there been one single conviction of any act that has any element of illegal action when the opposition is concerned? It's not. Unfortunately, it's showing up here in a different way. We have to stand up to this demagogy. It's about time. It is high time that those who represent Europe here and declared themselves well-intentioned no longer discriminated against political parties to the likes, depicted in the opposition's work and indecipherable in power. It's worth hearing here, and it's worth hearing from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66417	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66418	Just for a little while. Mr. Jovanovic, you've just asked very good questions. I mean to tell you, I'm going to take this opportunity to ask myself as soon as there's a next election dialogue meeting. I will ask these questions to our European Parliament friends whether they are informed about what these Gilas and Obradovic's savages were doing here at the National Assembly this weekend. So, since we talked about the topic of relations with parliament and respect for parliamentaryism, just if they saw news from Serbia what these savages were doing, how they were trying to break the door here, all with shouts -- burn, light up the Assembly, and whether it deserves any reaction, any comment on their part. As I have called on, I have not yet seen any answer, so I will also call on this occasion, representatives of NGOs who have made any recommendations for improving parliamentary practice, to see what the problem is, may not have followed that the debate on the budget was held just as we said with one point of the agenda in the double duration of the regular procedure, because they said only that it should happen, so that they give recognition to the National Assembly, as the place where the highest possible standards are being implemented, that there is no country in an environment that does it the way we do. What's the problem with the public saying that now and the confession of the instructions? As far as the process itself is concerned, we are giving our maximum to be on a high level, to be on a level even more than it is today and to tell everyone openly, it is already where and where better than it has ever been during the former regime. That they want to admit, but Serbia deserves all these other things to say nice, open, clear, so if it wants to be with those who break up the National Assembly of Happiness privately, that's their thing, I see they want their youth involved, these Gilas youth from the Gilas Association of Five million who say themselves we are the youth of the Gilas Party, DS or youth of their alliance, it doesn't matter which parties. They want them to further confirm everything Bosko Obradovic tells them otherwise. There's no problem, but let them ask each other, and their seniors and their youth, what kind of principle, what standard it is, and what value it is to destroy institutions like the National Assembly, what value it is to hang in saws and other things that apparently are the only thing they have to offer to the people of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66419	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66420	For some reason, after a round of replicas, the MPs begin to address the imaginary MPs. We have absolutely nothing to do with those who are on the street who are not in this room and we tell you, not now, but long ago we tell you, when this Bosko Obradović happened and the invasion of RTS, then the authorities needed to react and there were several reasons to react, so now that he tried, he called for the burning of the Assembly. You know, we don't understand what that means, you're very nice now, so you let them do whatever they want. It's not democracy. Democracy is something else. It's democracy for them to come here and talk, if they don't have to. You see them all the time praying as far as we're concerned they can and don't have to, in fact, how they choose and you have no reason to be angry, you know, since the world and the century the opposition is opposed to their positions of power. It's perfectly normal. But we Serbian radicals never criticize or speak, that's just something to say. Here he tried again to say that this government was making roads, etc. Have we ever told you that's not good? Of course not. We are now telling you, we are talking about future elections, we are warning you that such an ambience should be created, such an climate that finally after more than two decades in Serbia, people vote at their own free will based on their own conclusions. You claim that you don't bribe voters in any way, you know now those people they've been to, they're already going to your teams on the ground, and now those people who are watching this assembly and they know they've got some oil, sugar, flour and everything they've got there, now they get baptized and say what they're saying five days ago they brought me, and now they say they don't bring it. So, don't do that, don't hide behind the farce from these laws that supposedly state officials shouldn't participate in the campaign, and they have to participate. Who will participate in the campaign if no party officials are involved when you are currently state officials. It's not a dispute, we're just telling you not to be hypocritical to please, we have no idea who. You will not please him who is unsatisfactory and who does one other thing to you, conditionally speaking, about the head, you will never please them in this way. So meet democratic principles, satisfy the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let us change only that member of the law to restore that possibility to the MP and freedom as it says in the Constitution, to make the mandate available to the party. Don't ask them to bring you the pictures. Don't wear food, hygiene, stoves, pajamas, umbrellas, glasses, shoes, slippers, nothing you didn't wear to the people. Don't do that, so let people vote on their own conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66421	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66422	Thank you. I'd just like to have one previous presentation where it's said that there's a law and that it's a shame that we're doing the training of authorised persons who work or run water, update the unique electoral list. I just want to say for the public that there is a technical technological process called digitization. There's a technological and industrial revolution. Thanks to this digitization, we have succeeded and I thank all the parents, of course, and all the authorities who work on the unique voter list, so we have managed to link the parent's book, as I said, the dead and the married, with a unique voter's list. That's why it's important that all these new solutions that make it easier to work, which makes it a unique electoral list more up-to-date, are properly presented to those who are certainly working according to the law. The law exists a long time ago, and we started applying these technical solutions about three years ago. So that's the reason, and I don't see any kind of shame that those who respect and apply the law have any other tools that will help make the single electoral list ever more up-to-date.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66423	Thank you. The right is not a replica of MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66424	Just one more sentence, it won't be necessary anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with everything I'm convinced that we understand each other, and that's why, with which motives the citizens vote. Everyone knows that, very well, they do it because they trust someone, they love someone or they don't. Nothing else can play that third moment when a man is alone with himself and with his own safety. It's my last sentence for today. Thanks to all these things I do, not only will one day talk about this time as a period of time when thanks to Alexander Vukic and SNS in Serbia, there have finally been jobs and dignity for man and when wages grew and highways were finally built, and when clinical hospital centres and schools and scientific and technological parks were finally built, they will not only say that it was Serbia in which digitisation was successfully implemented, but also modernisation in many ways. They'll talk thanks to our solutions and other things we do. Thanks to Alexander Vukic and the SNS, there was more freedom and democracy in Serbia then than ever before. They were alive, and they saw it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66425	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66426	This is what pre-election promises look like, says only one sentence, and then says, "Here's the last one in this statement on the pronunciation of 14 sentences." Of course his right, but I'm just showing a relationship to the truth. Minister, I didn't say it was a shame to train someone, but I asked you if you were hiring people with a state exam and whether someone who doesn't pass a state exam, whether they pass it within six months, according to the law. That's the first one. Secondly, digitization in local self-government has not been since three years ago, since you started training, when you were ordered to train. The digitization lasts much longer. Of course, it's not over yet, you have to agree, it's not yet, but you have another problem when it comes to voting lists. It's not about whether someone who works on the polling list knows or doesn't know how to use a computer, but rather, comb the municipalities a little bit, ministers, that for some reason the board of directors of the voting lists are putting party-like people on those reports. They put people who don't know what a unique polling list is, they think it's some lists that she has only one single polling list in her community, believe it or not, and that's the problem. That's the problem, looking through some party glasses in fear that something's gonna have to get muddy, flyy, so let's have some trust. So that's what happens and there's gonna be serious problems when elections get close, when they come in by law, etc. Believe me, Minister, send an inspection. You'd better deal with this problem yourself. You have to admit that all this stuff you're doing around these various instructions, etc., it's not your invention, it's not your will. They gave you that Kukan, Flankestein, Frankestein, what's his name, Fabrici, and here they are supported by Sonja Licht, or they are. Sonja Licht, Milan Antonijević, who organizes "Mirditu" etc., are mutually supported. Unfortunately, these are your mentors. Maybe you don't want to, but on that European path, there you are, and those stones are lucky for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66427	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66428	Thank you. Very short. So I don't want to get into that political plane. Legally, you can talk about it all day. So, even hypothetically that you're right, that some similar ones are put on that referendum, then the other one you weren't right about when you said it was a shame to do those trainings. Well, at least those who don't know what the report is, well, they come to training, so they learn. This was, of course, a joke. It is about very well-descripted people, who are perfected, who work hard throughout Serbia and I think they deserve, first of all, a high degree, a great deal of respect for everything they've done so far and what they're doing now and what they're going to do on. Any mastering of some new knowledge, using some new tools, can only help, as I said, that the unique electoral list is never more up-to-date and that's what I'm behind. Of course, and I'm sure you'll see it in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66429	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66430	I'm sorry, Minister, that you don't know how you feel about local self-government, and I'm afraid it'll be a problem at the time of the election, but here's just another suggestion, but there's something you're not in the mood to accept suggestions. Write it down, maybe you'll remember. Do not let it be derived from the unique electoral list and copies walk on the day of elections in towns and towns in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66431	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66432	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today we are discussing a set of laws that improve electoral conditions in Serbia and at the beginning of my presentation, I must say that I belong to that group of MPs who claim that election conditions today are no better than in 2012, when the SNS as an opposition with its coalition partners came to those elections and won. We today have an absurd situation, that part of the opposition criticises and complains about the electoral conditions they themselves have brought, although these electoral conditions have been significantly improved from 2012 to today. Much has been done to organise the voter lists, to train members of election committees, to control the entire election process, to the fact that Serbian citizens can also check everything when they vote. They complain of media freedoms, and in fact they forget what it was like when they were in power. Did any of us who were then opposition draw targets at the head of Tadic, Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, or any of them? Did any of us, who were then the opposition, deal in this way with members of their family, as they do today with the family of Alexander Vukic? They have failedly tried to impose violence on some subjects in the absence of their electoral process and forget that citizens of Serbia see new roads, new factories, see new schools, new hospitals, see a better one every day. You know, it's a lot of pain and it's very hard when you come to a GDP of less than 3.5%, which is plus 4%, when the record unemployment, which was 27% in 2013, is today down to below 10% and when many of them didn't believe that this year, as planned, the average wage will be 500 euros. The government has proposed, as we have pointed out, both Minister Ruzic and many of us, five candidates for forming a supervisory board. The opposition when she was in power didn't do it. This monitoring board should control both the Internet and the printed media. It is also clear that electoral conditions for the opposition will not be good enough, because they know that by going out to those elections they can't actually win. Since they are aware of this, they say that it is better to go to the elections then, because we only remember the presidential elections and the debacle of President Vuk Jeremic, who he beat, or better was Beli Preletecevic from Mladenvec and then tell themselves and the few supporters who support them – let's boycott these elections, let's put lies on the daily level, our policy is violence and disrespect of institutions. The most dramatic example is Bosko Obradovic, who has passed himself this time because on Saturday night, at a protest mast with his supporters, he tried to force himself into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to ask the question which is the order of the institution in which Bosko Obradovic is trying to force himself into and in which state can a man unpunishedly beat women? He says there is a dictatorship in Serbia, and he has the freedom to do all this unpunishedly, although my opinion and the opinion of most of my colleagues is that it is the last moment for the prosecution to react. Part of the opposition boycotts parliament's work, refuse to host on some media because they have nothing to say and forget that elections, not boycott, are the only criterion where Serbian citizens say their opinion. Serbian citizens also know very well who Vuk Jeremic is and who Tadic is and who Bosko Obradović is and who is Gilas, and they have recently found out who Bastic is, because his best man, Lesnjak, Lazar Lesnjak, explained to the public how it was spent when only one envelope was not brought to Bastac and his associates. As far as Jeremic is concerned, it is clear how his NGO is financed by Patrick Hoa, who was convicted as a criminal, and also on the question of how he received money from an embassy, answers that it is rude to say. As far as Gilasa is concerned, it is clear that he from 74 thousand euros in initial capital has come to 25 million in his real estate and 619 million, how much his companies have earned. Although we know all this, we actually want to and on top of all that we are doing and we are fighting for an orderly and better Serbia, improving the electoral conditions that will take place in a few months. The most important changes relate to the director's actions, to the fact that elected directors are not allowed to perform party activities through other persons, to participate in public meetings. The responsibility of the Public Enterprise Supervisory Board for the use of public resources for political purposes has also been specified, and the provisions on non-registration are also specified with a view to preventing the purchase of influence in the media. And my question in the end, with the conclusion that in the voting day, I will support these laws, is what else do we have to do, and as long as more minorities abuse and terrorise the majority?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66433	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66434	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honored guests, welcome to the home of the National Assembly. For us, in front of the Modern Serbian Party, this is one of the perhaps most important sessions, and we have been watching with attention everything that happened before this session was scheduled. As you know, Minister Ruzic and other colleagues, my colleague Vladimir Djuric and I participated very actively in a dialogue that took place not only at the Faculty of Political Sciences at the beginning with the help of NGOs, but also later when the dialogue was continued in the Serbian Parliament, unfortunately with the help of representatives of the European Parliament. There seems to be one thing that is important to me, and I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia to know, therefore, in addition to what is going on in the dialogue, there have been public debates on several important laws that should come or have already come to the Assembly's agenda and that, in addition to the participation of the Modern Serbian Party, we have not been able to see other colleagues. Therefore, we are genuinely concerned about the lack of interest of MPs of the National Assembly, but also about the lack of interest of many other political organisations, which, unfortunately, are not parliamentary at the moment for many important laws that are necessary for the Assembly to adopt and improve them in order to advance the electoral process itself, and we have the greatest opportunity to listen in public. As for the dialogue that takes place at the university, i.e. in the Serbian Parliament, two ore negotiations have been concluded. Given that between the second and third rounds of negotiations, namely what has been announced to be on the agenda now Friday, when we meet with representatives of the European Parliament, there are laws that are the subject of the first round of negotiations and five new conclusions that we have received from the second round of negotiations. So, we can already say that what is in those conclusions is partially or completely fulfilled and that by the end of the third round of negotiations or shortly after the end of that round, depending on when this session will end and many others we expect will be fulfilled. However, we regret to conclude that this is not enough and in this sense we appeal to, regardless of what the composition of the National Assembly will be in the next session, that we do not stop at these topics by adopting the laws. So we can execute the division on, from these conclusions, the laws concerning the electoral process, and these are the laws that are on the agenda today, and that was actually the capacity that people sitting at the table in the Assembly could offer, therefore, whether they are part of the parliamentary opposition, the extraparliamentary opposition, representatives of the ruling majority or NGOs. I ask you most beautifully to chair the rest of my colleagues, because I don't hear my thoughts. Excuse me, please. Milorad Mircic: What is it, is it mandatory to listen? You don't have to listen, but you don't have to speak parallel to me with an equal tone. So, I'm asking you most nicely, I really don't hear my thoughts. I don't mind you talking, going out into the hallway or talking quietly. No matter what you think about it, it doesn't justify you speaking to me in parallel.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66435	Please allow colleagues to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66436	So today on the agenda of the Assembly we have a set of electoral laws that should improve to a certain extent the election cycle. They won't improve this process enough just because when we read the amendments and the addition of these laws we can realize that some common sense is in the draft of these laws. I will only give you one of the laws on the agenda as an example, it is the Law on Public Enterprises, where it is particularly stressed that the director of a public enterprise will not be able to use the resources of public enterprises for promotion, etc. So, something that means we had to end up in the law to eventually commit people who are in such responsible positions not to do so. I accidentally witnessed the abuse of resources in the municipality of Zemun, and I came and saw that in the middle of working time the resources of a Belgrade city municipality are being used in the sense that the rooms and people working there are being used to maintain a coll-center. That was 2016. So no one can convince us that this isn't happening. This is happening and this practice should stop. So we were supposed to come, after 20 years of establishing democratic changes, by someone from the European Parliament to make us put on paper something that is meant to be. This is the first step, and we welcome him, but at this first step, he can't stop. It was very difficult to write amendments to the draft laws because it was very difficult to define what a functional campaign is and how it can be widely interpreted and how this interpretation can be misused. We also understand the position of the ministry in which it was to be placed on paper and to explain what a functional campaign is, given that we have the opportunity to make sure that the representatives who come from the EU and who are talking to us also have a problem in their home countries to define this issue more precisely. So, we welcome this as a first step, but this certainly isn't enough and can't stand on this, as many colleagues before me have talked about it, especially those who are representatives of the opposition. So, in particular, it must continue with this definition in order not to put us in a position for the whole public sector to be subordinated to those who were previously in power during the election campaign. As for the election of REM members, they are not as proposals today. So, they will be, I sincerely hope, in the course of next week, given that the selection and candidate process is under way for members of the Assembly's Supervisory Board and for three missing REM members. In this regard, I hope that representatives of the ruling majority will show that they have capacity, democratic capacity and make concessions to those parliamentary groups that are now the opposition. So that is how it should be shown, to show what a National Assembly should look like, to respect the proposals that come from the opposition, and not only when pressure is being made, as is the case with these laws, but to simply stress that it is possible to do so and when such types of pressures are not being done. So, once again, we note that we are pleased that the process of improving the electoral circumstances in Serbia has begun, but that this question is something that needs to be done for a long time and that surely these small changes will not satisfy us entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66437	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66438	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the SNS has not been forced into anything. She simply has a responsibility to the citizens to show no matter how high the demands were when it comes to the elections and the electoral will of the citizens, we will be respected just to preserve the right of every voter to go to the elections and support exactly the policy he thinks will bring him better tomorrow. As SNS shows from year to year, from election cycle to election, that Serbian citizens really support Alexander Vukic's and SNS' policies, we have no problem with that. That's why today we have one qualitative step when it comes to these laws. We didn't ask for this kind of change of law, but we sat together for that round table or whatever you say common table, said dialogue, went to FPN, so outside the institutions, which is one precedent. I'm going to ask you, all Serbian citizens, if that were happening in one France or England, would you even agree to the position to speak to the opposition in this way? We have no problem with the citizens of Serbia who will ultimately support the SNS, go out and talk to those who are not our equalists. That's why we went and said - okay, we want to improve the system of functioning of the electoral process, we want to improve the conditions and the environment under which the elections will be held. Here we are. Those who came to the first meeting, then went out, and put all their demands in that first package, which, after all, we are voting today and today we are adopting, simply after that first meeting, left the negotiations and said they did not want to talk to us. So there's no limit to any of these so-called. opposition parties gathered in the Alliance for Serbia, which will accept, to create a better environment in society. That's visible, because you today, on today's International Human Rights Day, you have statements by their members that speak of how human rights are denied here. So the basic political right to vote and vote on you, to have the right to run, simply, they try to argue, and that goes one step at a time. So now we're gonna cancel the functional campaign. It's okay, it's not a problem. But after working hours, everyone has the right to do politics, to be chosen and to choose. Therefore, you cannot deny this right to anyone, so you will not be able to deny Alexander the Wolf. All those who want to move their entire political life to the streets are wrongly mistaken that Serbian citizens will support it. That's why you can see that the support that may have been about 20% a year ago, 15%, is now two times smaller, and it's going to be smaller and smaller. As the degree of aggression grows, and you see it according to Bosko Obradovic, who is their spokesman, the Alliance for Serbia, so their anxiety will grow bigger and bigger. What we have in these laws today is a chance to see, first of all, that amendments and additions to the law have been made and when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, when it comes to deadlines when you can file a complaint and when they need to answer. Those deadlines are considerably shortened. Then, we have a definition of the election campaign itself from election day to campaign day, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities. This defines the exact costs of the process itself when it comes to elections, so bans on spending and state resources and financing in the matter of the election campaign. In the end, we have a part that refers to the process activities themselves, when it comes to the Agency's responses to the fight against corruption. When it comes to public enterprises, we've had the opportunity to hear what's forbidden, but even here, we have the first time a sentence for directors who do it or have the knowledge that their employees are doing it, and we have even reason to solve the director if it is proven that they have violated the procedure, when it comes to a functional campaign. We've gone out here perfectly in conversation with those who don't think like us. We were going to advance the election process ourselves. In the previous 2016 and 2017 elections, despite being parliamentary and presidential, RIK also went to improve the conditions under which certain activities are being carried out, so certain lists, which today have no objections to such a thing, are due to the introduction of the digitisation process that the minister spoke of. Then they talked about prisoners who refer to the very sacks containing ballots, which are now coded. Many citizens don't know that. It's good to say here on the spot what RIK's done and what he's doing today, how much he's improving the system of the election process itself. To come to the point today that certain activities related to the training of the so - called so - called. Coach, perform RIK. And he only trained yesterday for people who are in front of Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevci. So each local self-government has formed municipal election committees that have given two to ten members, i.e. representatives who will be the primary coaches. What is important is to say, it is possible for both domestic and foreign observers to have the opportunity to fully look at and monitor RIK's work. What is important is that the notes will be fully transparently presented to the public. If you remember, otherwise, the Parliament's budget has granted RIK additional funds to buy the scanners that need to do exactly this big job. But what's kind of modern-day RIK has today paved the way for itself to, and through social networks online, you have the transmissions of RIK sessions and you have on social networks exactly their daily work. So, the RIK procedures today are preparations for work to be done from the moment the elections are scheduled until the mandate verification process is completed in this Assembly of Members of Parliament. And their work is fully improved in a really professional way. And that's what I think no government has ever faced like the SNS government. This is what we wanted to show that we're not even afraid of. mediators who come from the EU, or anyone, to simply show that in the clearest possible way those votes we have received as the ruling party can be defended, after all, and to all observers who are in the RIK, ultimately, in front of Serbia's citizens. We hope for the EU's well-meaning in this whole process. We saw that the negotiators first sent Mr. Kukan and Flekenstein. We now have the expansion of this negotiating team in the form of Mrs. Susan File and Mr. McCallister. But what shows somewhere the Alliance for Serbia's aspirations, is that they are trying to show in a certain way by a media campaign that what Serbian citizens really think about not only supporting SNS, but all parties are trying to hide that image from European parliamentarians and Europe itself through their own media that are simply functioning here. You now have a completely distorted media image through their media, which is trying to make us some topics that need to cover all the good results and all those high standards that Serbia has achieved not only in the economy, in the economy we really are leaders of number one, because we do not say that, that's what all of the world's magazines from the economy say and put Serbia first when it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment. According to all economic parameters and results, we are the country that in the region so-called The Western Balkans are the best results, we are already good at those results when it comes to moving the scale when it comes to human rights. It is true that there are more problems and it is true that we are working on these problems, but these problems require the support of all relevant entities in society. We now come to the fact that certain individuals are trying to bring down the system of values in Serbia through their own personal frustrations, which in the worst possible way, to bring down the institutions that exist here, as we have seen not only the National Assembly, but also the university, but also the education, but also what is related to culture. Simply, when you don't have enough arguments and you don't have a political plan and a program, then you're going to take down that system of values, to tear down the state, and it's all been a little bit, but it's also started with stories about the "Second Industry", and attempts to transfer the whole story somewhere on the foreign-political field. Well, that simply can't be done by this Serbian government, neither can this President Alexander Vukic allow and I can't have SNS MPs here in parliament. That's why we want to support this bill, just to show society to all citizens, and to those who don't support us, that we can go to elections at any moment and show how much we've done and what we're going to do in the future. That is why we will really support this bill, not because we want to touch someone, as we have had the opportunity to hear, which comes from either the civil sector or the EU. Our goal is the future of Serbia and what we really want to do to all our citizens. That's why in the voting day, we're going to support a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66439	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66440	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us today is the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the Anti-Corruption Act. More specifically, we are talking about changes and additions to existing legal solutions. Amendments and additions to the law are the result of the need to regulate and improve the electoral process by law, i.e. to provide equal opportunities to all participants in the electoral process, without favouring one side. In this way, the Serbian Progressive Party once again proves that it is a state-run party and puts state interests first in its work, not with narrow party interests, but with the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The solutions proposed by amendments to those laws were based on recommendations proposed by the Working Group for Co-operation with the European Security and Co-operation Organisation and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. Based on the recommendations of the Working Group, amendments and additions to the law have been approached, where the term – public resource – is primarily defined, as well as the use of public resources in the election process itself, as well as sanctions that a public official can have if he violates legal provisions in relation to the use of public resources. In this way, officials are placed in the same position as all factors in the electoral process, because the functionator cannot use public resources to promote political parties, or he will not be able to invite voters to vote for him, or boycott the elections, to organise public gatherings and promotions, using public resources. These laws do not deny the right of officials to be elected and elected. The law defines only that they cannot participate in political gatherings as functionaries in working hours and use the resources available to them as officials. If the official does not comply with the letters of the law, or if the legal provisions are not complied with, infringements are also provided for, which are intended to be carried out consistently by those legal prohibitions. Amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act and the Anti-Corruption Act have conditioned that changes, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises be made to the part where the Director's responsibility for the use and availability of the company's means in the election campaign itself is strengthened. The responsibility of the Director will also increase in the management part of its function, and a legal provision for the Director's discharge is provided accordingly, if it uses its function and affects the electoral will of employees in the public enterprise. In view of all the above, I believe that a good bill is before us, and in the day of voting will have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66441	Thank you. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66442	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens and respected fellow MPs, public resources include public property belonging to the Republic of Serbia, that is, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we must prevent various abuses and spending of public funds, in order to personally promote certain officials and political parties, which has certainly happened in the past. I would like to commend the above-mentioned draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I would like to remind the respected citizens that so far, no previous authority has been interested enough to find such a bill in front of MPs in the Assembly, except the SNS, headed by our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. In the past, various abuses occurred in public finances and public goods, so-called public goods. The democratic regime, headed by Mr. Dragan Gilas. In addition to a handful of examples, I will remind our citizens and the case called SIEPA, namely the Foreign Investment and Promotion Agency of Serbia, which was founded in 2004 and worked actively until 2012, so in 2013, we shut down the same name of the Agency, because we have taken serious accounts with corruption. In fact, in the current government, so-called The democratic regime, headed by Mr. Dragan Djilas, the SIEPA agency, with then-director Clear Matic, former Telecommunications Minister, damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget. SIEPA leaders were accused of abuse of official position, as they claimed that payments under non-existent copyright contracts damaged the budget for more than 200 million dinars for a short period of time, the prosecution confirmed. Namely, over 1,500 fictitious copyright contracts have been concluded with employees who have already received salaries from the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, i.e. SIEPA. The prosecution has come up with key evidence, a double book stating the exact sums of false copyright fees. The books detail the records when a fictitious fee is paid, on whose name and what amount. The book also states that part of the fee is paid into the black fund, where money was taken for travel or personal needs of employees. In addition, they were paid additionally for jobs they had already done at the Agency. Some SIEPA workers had several fictitious contracts, making up to 10,000 euros a month. The contracts were made with everyone, from the coffee cook to the chiefs of the sector. They also used foreign and domestic subsidies, where then the leaders, without elemental criteria, granted these subsidies to domestic companies with which they could agree on an internal distribution of funds, in principle, that part of the appropriations or percentages were taken by the SIEPA. In fact, 240 companies that received subsidies, no one followed, because then the Ministry of Economy never passed a rule about it. Therefore, the SIEPA did not do a good job and used public goods for personal interest, in order to primarily fill their pockets. Dear citizens, this is just one example of how and how the representatives of the democratic regime at the time abused their positions and parasitically took what belonged to the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, instead of helping and supporting the development and promotion of exports of healthy, advanced and fair domestic companies, which are being fought by lions. They looked only at the personal interest and at the great tragedy, their filling pockets. Of course, the SIEPA no longer exists, because SNS, or Mr. Alexander Vukic, has been chosen by the legitimate will of the people, and I am truly grateful for that. Today we are fighting to provide every entrepreneur with incentives, subsidies with respect to certain criteria in order to preserve every private, entrepreneur and every employee. We're fighting to save one employee, let alone more, and to give everyone a decent job. There are a bunch of examples I've already talked about, and I'm sure I'll speak again in the future, but for starters, we clearly need to look at who's fighting for power and what kind of affairs are behind people like that. So, we have the SIEPA case, the privatisation agency I was already talking about, the Ada Bridge that cost as twice the bridge in France, the underground container affair, over 600 million euros mysteriously stolen by Mr. Dragan Gilas, and unfortunately, I could talk all day on the subject of affairs and abuse of position. Is it possible that this minority called the Alliance for Serbia wants to artificially construct hatred and division of the people with constant provocations and aggressive outbursts and frequent hatred for people who are clearly more successful on all issues than themselves? Today, in front of our society, and I can say freely, there is a collective injustice for us free citizens, and through the frequent provocation of the Alliance for Serbia, only because we keep our promises to the citizens and it is difficult for some to accept that SNS, our Government and our President are better in every sense than Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and Vuk Jeremic. Dear citizens, today the word "democracy" is being misused because in the name of democracy, it breaks down, collapses, and everything we do is being humiliated by the Alliance for Serbia and a few of its supporters. I expect that the new anti-corruption law will further piss off representatives of the so-called. The opposition, so probably next to the words they use, such as "breaks", "burns", "zazi people", "kills" will be even more creepy threats, if they exist at all, because the worst you could do, you have already done and spoken. My question this time is – should we be facing the daily problems we face, watching the terrible scenes of a few aggressive insolents? Do our children need these creepy threats and horrors to listen and watch? The ultimate question is: are they and should they lead to a better future in Serbia? Everything we've done so far, building a lot of highways, opening up new factories, hospitals, schools, reconstructing and rebuilding various streets, parks, opening new kindergartens, improving living standards, reducing the unemployment rate, are we going to put all this in our pockets and bring it home or is it left to our citizens and our children? These same ones from the Alliance for Serbia go through these new highways, go through reconstructed streets, their children go to schools that we've promoted, but you just can't stand what's better than you. We're all better, we work, we build, we fight honestly, we strive for peace and stability, mostly because of our children and we look forward to the better future that we are in today. My advice to you is, if you promote hatred, because I only see it, there is no political program that is meaningful, I believe that none of our citizens know your reason for being on the political scene anymore, except for the insult, hatred, destruction and burning and frequent threats, that you can freely expect that same hatred that you promote and produce only you and return. But, not from us from the SNS, it's important to say, our president, because we will continue to do even more and to build, but from our people, which is already clearly visible to who they support and what our people want. It will sound painful to you too as a great sobering, but, respected gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, our people simply don't want you, they don't want unrest, they don't want instability. So our people want peace, a good future, stability, which is our policy of leadership, and I'm sure they're unanimous in that support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66443	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66444	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, recently published a European Commission report proves that Serbia has made some progress in fighting corruption in the previous year. The results in the fight against corruption are not only a condition that Serbia must meet in order to get closer to the EU, but the goal in itself is to build democratic institutions and grow citizens' confidence in them. The European Commission in the report published in May this year states that Serbia has achieved a certain level of preparedness in the fight against corruption. Corruption depending on the degree of whether one state has a functional rule of law and leaders committed to solving this problem, not only on paper, but also through effective measures. Serbia has made a number of changes in EU accession negotiations, and we have the political will to stand in the way of corruption. Public procurement and infrastructure projects, health, education and public enterprises are also particularly vulnerable to corruption. With regard to the fight against corruption, the EU believes that Serbia should, in the short run, advance records of investigations, high-level corruption indictments, including the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. Amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act are being made to strengthen their role as key institutions for a more effective fight. Also, we are adopting a new ambitious strategy and action plan. The draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the draft law amending and supplementing the laws on the prevention of corruption has been adopted with the aim of strengthening the responsibility of political entities as participants in the electoral process. These legal proposals provide for the introduction of a new concept, which is a public resource under which the immovableity or movable matter and any other good that, in public property, is used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local self-government units. It also defends the abuse of these same public resources for political promotion, but changes, as with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, highlight potential abuses in the election campaign. As you can see, we want to stop it. In addition to strengthening responsibilities in relation to the use and availability of public resources, changes and complements also relate to the clear separation of functional and political functions. A ban is also being imposed on public officials to use public resources to promote political parties, or political entities. In light of the proposed changes, the government's working group on co-operation with the European Security and Co-operation Organisation and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights analysed the recommendations of these organisations from 2003 to 2017. The working groups have prepared the text of amendments to the law aimed at strengthening the responsibilities of non-political entities involved in the election, both in terms of the use and availability of public resources, the separation of functions and political functions, as well as the regulation of violations for officials using public resources contrary to the law. When we're united, we can do anything. Some people are trying to destroy everything we've achieved and promoted to protect their political and personal interests. We with these laws want to stop it. Citizens of Serbia, you see for yourself how many challenges we face today. We meet these challenges with determination and courage and with a clear vision of where we are going. We inherited many problems, but as you can see, we systematically solve one by one. I cannot finish this speech without saying - we must not remain silent and must not allow it to happen again on October 5, 2000, which was attempted on Saturday, December 7th, which is violently entering the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, burning and looting. We had the opportunity to see at the exhibition organised by President Maja Gojkovic in due time what the Assembly looked like the day after. That's terrible. This is the highest institution of the Republic of Serbia, and when someone attacks the National Assembly of Serbia whose name is unworthy and to mention, with the flag of the Republic of Serbia, it is insolent and shows that nothing is sacred to him, not the institutions, not the state, nor the flag, nor the people who clearly showed who its leader is and which way he wants to go, which is the only way of progress and prosperity, that is President Aleksandar Vucic and that is SNS. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66445	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66446	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, even today, the SNS shows how responsible, stable, peaceful party whose interest in stability in Serbia is first, as well as the life of Serbian citizens is worthy of man. Unlike the others who tried Saturday and the previous days to tear down, both our parliament and our state of Serbia and with the symbol of the state, the flag of Serbia, we are always there for them, we stand for dialogue and for a peaceful solution. Bosko Obradovic, of course, has, as always, run into women, even on Saturday when he came across the front door of parliament, he ran into a woman who is head of security. It's not the first time. So he came across women in front of the presidency, met Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, PINK journalists. So his manners are just to attack women. I'm just wondering what he's gonna say to his kids the next day, who he is and what he is. What an example he gives to his children first, and then to the rest of Serbia's youth. But he's not the only one. There's still a big group around him, same-minded. What the SNS has accepted to vote and to adopt this set of new electoral laws is certainly just what hurts them. We've shown again how much we're above them. I'm an example of how officials used to behave in public enterprises myself, the one they didn't pay maternity money to just because I was an opposition in 2006 to them. They couldn't break me, but that's why I left my baby for safekeeping with my mother. May every woman whom they have treated be honored simply because they do not feel the same way. But nothing can stop Serbia. Today, another chapter is being opened in Brussels in the EU's negotiating approach, and this is Chapter 4, which concerns the free movement of capital. While Alexander Vukic and our government and SNS Serbia will certainly, surely, go into future safe steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66447	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66448	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I will talk about the bill on amendments and amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency, but before I start talking about the law, I really can't, not to look back at something that scared me, which is the latest incident of a man, an inhuman, Boška Obradovica, on Saturday, when the gentleman, by flag, or by the spear of the flag, wanted to break the window at the door of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How far, how far, how far? Wait, man, I don't even know what's going on in that man's head. I know there's no problem, I know he lost his party, but I also know he's calling for a link between the president of the Republic of Serbia and hanging. He calls us all here by his name, by his daughter. He bullied our Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, harassed PINK journalists, went in with the testers in RTS1, with the phantoms, as if I were watching Hitchcock's movie, the scariest. I don't know what hit me. How long? Is he normal? We have psychiatrists here, we have institutions that can help him. It would be nice for them to bring him in, talk to a man for a little while, to help him, indeed, to be killed by that destructive urge. If, no, let the republican public prosecutor react once before, the MUP, because this man is becoming very dangerous to the environment. Shame, what's going on, and that's the dictatorship they live under, under which they can't come here. I don't know what they need to be done to realize that they don't have a program, that if they want to have at least 5% to say, to expose their program, not to crash, to kill, to rape, to throw. What's next, to throw me off the terrace? I really don't know. You're a disgrace. As far as this law is concerned, recommendations from the OSCE Working Group on Co-operation and also from the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights have resulted in the adoption of legislation on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. What's the point of this law? The point is that all those who participate as officials, who are in public functions cannot use public resources, cannot use themselves and their parties for political purposes, cannot lobby themselves, cannot use these public resources based on resources, even if it is mobile, immovable property, in any way to abuse public resources. I agree, once and for all, that we know who's doing what, and there's no spending of public resources, and if that happens, the fines will be between 100,000 and 150 thousand dinars. It'll finally put some sort of order into this. As for how we work, I don't mean the SNS, but I mean the government, the president, we've filed a lot of applications. Now I'm going to read you exactly what it's all about. At the republic's level, for example, 186 proceedings were initiated, at the local level of 116 proceedings, at the republic's level, a total of 186 proceedings, including one against the minister, 36 against the MPs, one against the advisers of the president of the Republic, 76 against judges and former judges, eight against prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, two against state secretaries. The proceedings were initiated against eight assistants and an assistant minister, 34 presidents and members of boards and boards, 19 directors, etc. So it's not true that we're not fighting corruption, and my smallness in the voting day will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66449	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66450	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, since we have very little time left, I will make my speech that I have prepared, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, shorten and I will respond more to my colleague Malusic, who indirectly called me. What I'm saying is, this is to comment on the performance of BBC correspondent Slobodan Stupara in Luxembourg on TV "N1", which literally said - nothing will end in the elections, the matter will be resolved through the knee, which is an old spray custom. So I repeat again -- nothing will end in the election, the matter will be resolved over the knee, which is an old Serbian custom. Apparently, he's alluded to all the political murders in Serbia, which is an open call to civil war, reminding me there are no winners in the civil war, and the potential winner is the biggest loser. This hatred that is depicted in Bosca Obradovic and similar to him is increasingly escalating and bordering on madness, so the only solution to this psychopathological disorder is 13 kilometers from Nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66451	The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66452	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of laws that are primarily important for our country, and even more for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for their safety and will certainly lead to an improvement of the electoral environment in our country. When I talk about the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, it is clear that the aim of the law is to strengthen the responsibility of the Director of a Public Enterprise, of course in the election campaign, in the sense that additional reasons for the resolution of the Director are being added if the Director uses public resources, i.e. the resources of a public undertaking to promote political parties. The criminal provisions for the offences of the responsible person have also been supplemented in case they do not comply with the law. In addition to the law, the reasons for dispensing the Director are complemented, in the sense that the Director abuses his official position, uses the official premises, official vehicle or other public enterprise inventory of course in the election campaign, or if he puts pressure directly or indirectly on his employees in a public enterprise or engaged in any other way, and is a public undertaking worker or if he runs an election campaign during his working time, all in order, of course, to prevent the abuse of use of public resources during the election process. When we talk about amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Law, the aim of both laws is absolutely clear, which is to strengthen the responsibility of the political entity during the election campaign, and also to strengthen responsibility in relation to the use and availability of public resources, clearly, politically separate from the function. These legislative proposals also foresee the introduction of a new concept and clearly define the concept of public resources, as well as a violation for public officials who act contrary to the legal provisions. Our Government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the President of the Republic of Serbia has clearly shown these proposals to the laws that we are not concerned with or to amend certain draft laws if, of course, there is a reason and the reason is primarily the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the interest of SNS policy is to create the best standards, of course, and when it comes to the electoral process and that we have a modern, stable and built country in every sense. Now, when we look at the Government of our Republic, which is ready to change laws like this and make such proposals of law and of our predecessors, it is clear why they didn't even think of changing and approaching the amendments to the law when it comes to fighting corruption or the Law on the prevention of the fight against corruption, because they thought, of course, only about filling their own pockets and increasing their wealth and especially for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So Dragan Gilas owes the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what he owned since 2004, when he joined the office of officials and what he has now. Just comparisons, so we know what he had in the property map in 2004, and what he has now and how much his wealth is, and it is clear to what extent he abused his official position and increased his wealth, while, of course, he led the citizens and our country to bankruptcy and poverty. Is it possible for you to be a state official or mayor of the capital in any EU country to trade through private companies on television owned by a city or owned by a state where you are an official? Also, I ask the question – is it possible in any EU country that when it enters into office politically you have registered 75,000 euros in savings and after coming down from that same function only in the property card you enter yourself 25m euros? It should not be forgotten that Gilas as a state official whose companies from 2004 to 2013, had a turnover of over 700m euros. I'm sure there's no such example around, but there's no safe in the world. Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vucic, ended in 2018 with a record GDP increase of 4.3%, reduced the public debt by 50%, hired hundreds of thousands of people, newly employed, opened new factories, new investments, and also salaries and pensions are much higher than in the time of Gilas's robbery of the state, when he peeled skin off the back of Serbian citizens. In his day, Serbia had a minus 3.1% GDP growth and more than half a million people were out of work. The citizens have not forgotten their authority and that is their biggest problem. They would return at any cost to fill their pockets a little more, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will certainly not allow it, and I believe that there is a daily need for citizens to remember what the state would be like if they returned to Dilas or Jeremic to the head of the state. In the end, I would point out that this bill of law once again proves that it wants corruption to be absolutely eradicated in our country, that there are no privileged ones in our country. Anyone who acts contrary to the law will, of course, be processed. Also, Serbia is determined to strengthen institutions dealing with the fight against corruption and, above all, strengthen the confidence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66453	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66454	Thank you, Chairman. I will take the opportunity to speak at the end of the principle debate on these pre-election laws in front of the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party. During today and yesterday, we heard a lot, among other things, that Serbia does not have good electoral conditions. We heard that Serbia's Brussels is forced to install better electoral conditions. In front of the Modern Serbian Party, I would like to say that Serbia's failure would be to fail to hold fair and free elections and it would be a great shame for all of us. Responsibility is on everyone and it doesn't matter how it is distributed, because if the outcome of the election is questioned in the eyes of the international community, the shame will be common. No one forces Serbia to change electoral conditions, Serbia does not have to do so, just as it does not have to respect anything from European recommendations and European remarks, it does not have to go to the EU, it is not an obligation, it is a choice. The government has now chosen to fix electoral conditions or at least to show that it is to some extent and in some ways repairing them. Why now? Well, because now's the time that I can no longer ignore the pressures and demands first and foremost from Brussels. If democracy is what Brussels is asking us to do, I cannot say that Brussels is in this case malicious, because now obviously the pressures from Brussels and opposition outside institutions and opposition in institutions have grown to the point that it is no longer possible to ignore the remarks that appear year after year in the annual reports that the European Commission is sending us regarding Serbia's progress in the European integration process. Apparently, dozens of OSCE recommendations from their Office for Democracy and Human Rights can no longer be ignored now, which place objections to the Serbian election processes. With regard to the proposed laws, they bring some repairs, define what the election campaign is, time-quality, what campaign costs are qualitative, what a functional campaign is. They define what a public resource is and how it can be used and how it must not be misused for party purposes in the campaign. They impose short deadlines on the Anti-Corruption Agency during the campaign when it controls, whether electoral participants have violated electoral laws and prescribes that it must adopt an act, some solution because it is interesting that even so far it has not been precisely regulated what we could hear in the public debates we attended. However, it will be crucial, since there is no law that can define a functioning campaign so precisely as to avoid all possible malicious interpretations, manipulations in interpreting these provisions, and therefore it will be crucial to control the application of these legal provisions in the election process. There are additional shortcomings that, for example, are not being solved now. The example works, the inability to fund political parties by the association. It's a completely illogical thing. Why should the association of citizens who articulate the political views of some citizens be forbidden to finance a political party that would represent these interests through the electoral process. You have a situation where, say, the association donates rooms to a political party. This, in the sense of the Finance Act, is considered to be financing and is considered to be prohibited financing, as this association must not finance the party as such. These are some illogicalities that unfortunately have not yet been removed. In all, these laws bring something and that is the result of the pressure, but these laws do not bring enough and do not bring all that should be passed. We will therefore take our views on these laws first and foremost after the debate is concluded in particular and after the third round of parliamentary dialogue that will take place in the Serbian Parliament at the end of this week, and then we will first and foremost seek guarantees for the implementation of the law. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66455	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said in that brief address that we have no problem with the opposition, we have no problem with the elections. We don't even have a problem with those who boycott the election. We have a problem with Solakov and Gilas's business. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the sovereignty of a nation like Serbia rests on millions, not on millionaires. It is realistic for the government to choose millions of Serbian citizens, not millionaires, as they imagined. I'm afraid they think that when they have money that they can do anything with money, but I remind you of that saying, that those who think they can do anything with money, at the same time, and for money, they're willing to do anything. So, and to betray their own country, to sacrifice the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm saying that we have a dispute not with millions of citizens, but with millionaires. We'll go to the election under their terms. They will not go to elections under their own conditions and citizens should know that. No law on the source of MPs, councilmen, the President of the Republic has been passed by us, but by them. We didn't pass the Law on funding political activities, they did. So, all those election rules that were adopted, they adopted. They won't under their own conditions. We go out for who knows what time under their terms. They're complaining about freedom of the media, those who say -- we're gonna arrest the owners, we're gonna shut down the television. There is also one Dusan Teodorovic, who will use the pager to free a national television. We didn't share frequencies or national or regional. They shared. We didn't choose editors at RTS. We didn't even pick a porter. They chose. These are their terms. In the era of social networks, let me remind you, in 2012, it was rare for those who could access social networks on the phone. The users of social networks were certainly ten times less than today, if not 100 times. Portal, you have as many as you want, and in 2012, you could count those portals on your fingers. We didn't get into BK TV to lock her up with Kalashnikov. That's what they did. We didn't forbid the press, they banned it. We didn't arrest the owner and director of The Voice of the Public. That's what they did. It's their freedom of the media, as they see it. So don't be surprised that Gilas is doing it and Solak. They want to create one media landscape with millions, but, watch out, those who are ready for millions to do everything, are ready for millions to do everything, betray their country, create a media landscape, where Serbia will again be indisposed to a country outside the environment. They would sacrifice national interests just to get their hands on the authorities. They need power to control millions and make that media landscape, which they create through SBB, false border channels, across the press that no one will read... Can we get someone to read "Today"? As far as I'm concerned, they can print it in a million copies and sell it. Let NIN buy a million people, let Time buy 500 thousand people, let Sunday buy 700 thousand people, but don't expect us to make people read NIN, "Time", "Today", "Blic", watch N1 and Nova S TV, which are not registered? We strongly oppose the involvement of N1 and Nova S and all other foreign televisions in electoral processes in the state of Serbia. That's what every country does. We must not allow foreign countries through foreign media, in favour of Solak and Gilas, to create public opinion in the election campaign that defines voters, because they are on the first and second channels. Apparently, they're re-emitting the program. Well, if you're Luxembourg TV, and you don't know when the elections are in Luxembourg, and you want to deal with election propaganda and pre-election propaganda in the state of Serbia, it's unacceptable for me. We've been looking at these conversations so they can't buy the party's debts. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone buys a long party, like Gilas did, when I told these, they objected, and now they say that Gilas bought them for interest. They're saying it now. While I was telling them that it shouldn't be allowed, they acted in a completely different way. They didn't know that Gilas would manage them through debt, but when you buy debt, the Anti-Corruption Agency needs to see who bought the debt, whether it's legal or physical, whether it came out of the donor's limit. You, when you are a donor in the campaign, can invest a certain amount of funds that is limited and how legally and as a natural person, but you can assign a party and then buy the party's debt through the company. You are an illicit donor, and you have preserved political influence if it is not your party to another political party and thus end the electoral will. We also asked that MPs have the right to step out of the party that put them on the list and move on to another, but they do not have to return the mandate and have to obtain as many certified signatures as they should have received the mandate with which they have passed. They should collect 14,000 signatures during the transition today, as they have voter support to transfer their mandate to another party or be independent. We don't have that rule right now. Who steals the election? Well, Gilas and Solak and Jeremic. Where did they get 11 seats when they didn't participate in the election? How many votes does it take for 11 seats? They're saying someone in the polling post is going to steal two votes or they're gonna mistake something for a vote or two by mistake. Let's see what 11 seats are worth, Mr. Arsic. It's worth over 150,000 votes. The biggest thief, not only in money but also in votes, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, so they stole the votes they counted. If someone wanted to vote for Marinika Tepic in Gilas's party, which was not registered, it was not possible. They voted for the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. And she takes, Marinika Tepic, 15 thousand votes, ready, which have been given to the second electoral list and passed on, I don't know, to Jankovic, and then to Zivkovic, then at the end of the 15 thousand votes she passed on to Dragan Dilas, whose party didn't even participate in the 2016 elections. The same thing happened with the parliamentary group of Vuk Jeremic. And today they're, like, boycotting the election. The election was an opportunity to verify. (Vladimir Orlic: Two groups have Jeremic in the Assembly. I didn't understand. (Vladimir Orlic: Two groups have Jeremic in the Assembly. There are two groups? Well, well, he in two groups has supposed MPs from four or five parties. If people wanted to vote for that party, it didn't exist on the ballot. The opportunity to verify their mandates was now. To say yes, we've crossed over, we don't want to boycott the election, we want to prove that we've been worth those 11 terms. They didn't do it. And finally, let me finish, so I don't torture you anymore. Bosko Obradovic, you say, wants to force him into parliament. He has already entered parliament by force. Have you forgotten that he wanted to rip off the balcony - where you run, that he turned his hands, there's nothing he didn't do. What was Ambassador Scott doing? What was he doing that night? How did they get into parliament? They went in by force. U.S. force. By force of the American ambassador. His name was Scott. Ambassador Scott's gone, and we're left with an idiot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-10-0.u66457	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in points. 2nd to 5th agenda. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 82 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the 6th item of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Protector of the City. You have received a proposal for a decision on the election of Deputy Protectors, who was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, as well as a report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups are five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportion of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision to elect Deputy Protectors of the Citizens. Does the Proposer of the Protector of the Citizens want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the committee in charge want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is George Komlenski. Here you go.
