ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 83 MPs attend this session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 142 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Minister, you can insert your card now. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have been informed that Mr. Djordje Milicevic is attending the session. You have been presented the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, we can move to a vote for the minutes of the previous sessions. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held on 30 and 31 October. and 2, 5, 6, 7 and 9 November 2018. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 138, against – no one, with abstention – has, has not voted – 21. I agree that we adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session in 2018. In the context of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is also a proposal on the agenda. Before that, we'll decide on an emergency procedure proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Airport Management Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on registered same-sex communities be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on changes and additions to the Family Law be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda -- a bill on birth identity. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. We're going over to the agenda. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another opportunity and opportunity to open up in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and hopefully close the topic of Zoran Djindjic. It's a topic that, despite many years since he was killed, remains current. What's even more interesting is that there is still a war on who will profit more from dead Zoran Djindjic. We had a debate between SNS and DS last week that Zoran Djindjic would vote today if he were alive, whether he would be a DS wing. My personal opinion is that he would have been expelled long ago, as you worked with both Gilas and Jeremic and Tadic and in time with Micunovic, and Kostunica, and Pekic and many others who left the DS over the years. The Serbian Radical Party has been stressing from the beginning that a political background for Djindjic's murder should be established. With this, although some have tried to accuse us, of course, we have nothing, but it is also clear that many have profited politically from his death, that they often call on him, but that they refuse to in one law orderly manner, in accordance with the democratic procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to determine what it was really about. We are absolutely sure that the history of Zoran Djindjic will judge as we judge the Serbian Radicals, but that these facts would be confirmed as soon as possible and in one way verified by the National Assembly, I suggest that you vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52327	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I'm guessing he didn't pass this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances related to pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52328	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and this proposal, although addressed years ago, or at the beginning of this call, are free to say, never more up-to-date and once again, has shown how right we Serbian radicals have been to insist on establishing all irregularities related to the electoral process, to determine in what way US Ambassador Scott has influenced what electoral lists will artificially cross the censorship, who will sit in the National Assembly today and represent citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although citizens have not given those lists enough votes in the elections themselves. You all know that on that famous election night, Ambassador Scott gathered for the first time what is today called the Alliance for Serbia, although many at that time were strange to see both Tadic and Djilas and Bosko Obradovic and many others together and to join Cedu Jovanovic, which seemed incompatible. We warned then and, I would say, revealed to the citizens of Serbia that they have something in common, which is precisely what their employers are in the Western embassies. No matter how much part of that coalition pretends to be Russian, that it's against the West, you see that during the previous years they've given it up. A few days ago, we had, practically, an attempt at a coup, people who fell into RTS with phantoms and a chain saw, people who tried to force themselves into some political interest. They were whether a thousand or two, it's all one thing, but the question remains, what would they do and how would the whole thing end if instead of a thousand, God forbid it was 10,000 or 20 or 50? All of this would have been warned if we had discussed it in time in the National Assembly and had in time pointed out to the citizens of Serbia who are those who are the electoral list of Dveri, contrary to the will of the Serbian citizens, pushed into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you do not want your problems to be repeated then you have to talk openly about them, and the biggest problem of this regime, as well as the previous ones, is that it does not want to talk to representatives of other political parties in the only place that is set out in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which is exclusively the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52329	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 17, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented -- a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. The word is Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52330	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a law that is current and under which we are working today is a law that was passed long ago and passed by the SPS. It is a good law, but in it although the fighters exist in the title of no member and no attitude is committed to the fighters. I'm sure there was no five-octobaric breakdown that so far the Fighter Act would also be passed. Twenty-seven years waiting for one such law. Gentlemen, if the law could not be discussed after October 5th when the nato's structures were throughout Serbia and also in the Serbian Parliament, this should be discussed today. Today, when everything is formally fine, we mark important dates from 1998 and 1999. We discover monuments to the fighters, and here in four days will be the 20th anniversary of this criminal aggression. Technically, legally, there's no reason why this law isn't passed, but still, here he is after 27 years. There were several drafts of laws, better or worse, but none of them passed a public debate and went practically into oblivion with the convocation of the congregation that was to bring them. This law I hold in my hand is practically the only law in the congregation procedure, and I haven't met a single man who read it and said it was a bad law. There are normal and many fighters who are not happy with him because they expect much more, especially in some material way. The foundation of this law and what most fighters seek is national recognition, and it is in this law in my opinion done in one quite, quite acceptable way. Therefore, gentlemen, I appeal to you that this assembly of the Assembly do what the combatants have been expecting for twenty-seven years to put on the agenda this law and adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52331	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 27, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that this proposal has not been adopted. Ms Radeta, the MP has proposed that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending family law. Here you go. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52332	We proposed this law to minimise child abuse without parental ageing. The tension in society on the subject of missing children most often referred to as "stealing children", is large and interesting that for decades no one has seriously wanted to deal with this problem so that we can be really sure whether it happened or not. If it happened, to what extent was it and is it possible after all this time, and surely it is, there are still more living perpetrators, to find those responsible for these monstrosity acts? The question to be asked and why this law should be amended is how many of these children ended up abroad, how literally and brutally sold and newborn children, and how many ended up abroad through adoption, and we were against the adoption of children by foreigners and when this law was passed because it is always subject to serious abuses. If we know how many social work centres, or people employed in these centres, and how many affairs are related to social work centres, this doubt is certainly fully justified. This also has to do with foster families, as parents are increasingly reporting to whom social work centres are taking children because parents are poor and giving them to foster families. These foster families for this, the truth human gesture get a pretty high fee for this job they do, and we wonder why this amount given to foster families would not be given to poor families and that they would thus preserve their family nest, that children grow up in a family circle. foster families should be given children whose parents are unfit to be parents, I don't know, if it's drug addicts, alcoholics, mental patients, and healthy parents only because they're poor, to take their child away, it's just not normal and we don't know what the motive is, if foster families are allocated certain means to take care of that child, why can't it be given to those families that would take better care of themselves. Sorry, it's not working upstairs, so I can't keep track.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52333	Three minutes and 10 seconds. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Please, the service, to look at the clock so the MPs who answer the word can follow how much time they have left. National MP Vjerica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52334	The bill would indeed have to be adopted if you want the spirit of parliamentary democracy to return to the National Assembly and to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the next elections. We have proposed that three members of this law be changed, and given the state of the National Assembly, to fly from one Member party to another, we have here today Members of Parliament who have walked their parliamentary mandate in this assembly alone through three different parliamentary groups. We have the formation of parliamentary groups from parties that have not participated in the elections at all. If we want to take this work seriously, we must return to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 102(2). The Constitution to become part of article 88. The Law on the Election of People's MPs, which is the 88th, speaks when a member of the People's Parliament can terminate his mandate, and this would also be if he leaves the political party on whose proposal he has been elected as a MP, if he has made his term of office irrevocably available to the political party on whose proposal he has been elected as a MP before the election. Such a changed member, i.e. the addition of this attitude, is in no way cut off by that political and unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court, but, most importantly, it is in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, the MP must have the opportunity to make his mandate available to the political party who elects him as a MP, if he does not want it and if the political party does not insist on it, then let him come to the Assembly and continue with the fleeting policy, as it is present in the National Assembly, especially in this last session. The order of election of MPs cannot stand in this way as it is now in this law. We propose that MPs' lists, or parties themselves, can and should determine the order of MPs, because in this way they achieve equal activity in the territory of all Serbia and thus achieve the possibility that the political party for the MP should determine the one for whom I do not know, let's say, in his municipality, that the party had twice as many votes as it had in other municipalities, and then conclude that the municipality should have a national MP. So, you have to adopt these laws if you want true...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52335	Thank you. Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law on placing out of force of the Labour Act. The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52336	With the current labour law currently in place, employers are rewarded, and workers are drastically deprived. And we believe that the time has come to carry out a detailed analysis of the effects of the application of this law. In fact, the aim of passing this law was to attract foreign investors, where they were offered and offered a still cheap and qualified workforce. However, the realisation of this law has in practice not yielded the desired results. There are at least two reasons why this law should be put out of force. One and the first and basic reason is that all the rights of workers who existed before 2014 have been drastically reduced, and would have been abolished if those who had passed it had not been able to, of course, for other reasons, because of the Constitution and other laws which did not allow it. Then, extorted dismissal, extortional notice was completely abolished, so that if an employee quits because of employer pressure, illegal working conditions and employer will not bear any responsibility, and thus, this law and the work dispute completely loses its meaning. Another reason why this law should be abolished, or passed, is because there is a broad possibility of abuse in this law, which is largely used in practice. The basic two institutes that are not applied properly in this law are minimum earnings and work for a certain time. So working for a certain time became a rule, and working indefinitely became an exception. The minimum labour price has become a rule, so foreign investors do not move a little above 3/2BD/IR minimum labour prices, and a total of 90 % of employees are at a certain time, rather than the opposite case, that workers are employed indefinitely. This creates a great social dissatisfaction, brings great fear and great suffering among workers and the population. This law can also analyse the Law on the Abuse of the Investment Law, where foreign investors are easily given the possibility that most of the profits can be easily exported from the country, too, without customs production equipment. By this law itself, and when we look at the Law on Investments and the Labour Act, which has great connections and which are mutually conditioned, the state and the citizens of Serbia are much lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52337	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. The proposal was not accepted. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52338	The Law on Citizenship was passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, so immediately after the adoption of the new Constitution. But what is more important is that we approach the amendment of this member of the law that we are looking for, so that Serbs from Republika Srpska and Montenegro, who want it, can get it as soon as possible, at the request they explain, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that in 2000, a special parallel relationship agreement was ratified between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, and in 2001, the National Assembly adopted a Declaration on the Rights of Serbs from Republika Srpska. So far, more than 50,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska have submitted a request, with all of them in the request to recognise the Republic of Serbia as their country of origin, but many of them have not received the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia until today. The question arises – for what? So it was made by this phantom yellow coalition and DOS authorities a huge mistake and a failure that we now need to correct. In this case, the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia's MUP is not legally required to decide on a request for the citizenship of Serbs from Republika Srpska and Montenegro. Because the deadline is gone, and we propose it to be six months tops, because it is the time that is optimally needed for all security authorities and services both in Serbia and Republika Srpska, to check the status of those who seek citizenship. So, because of this anomaly now Serbs, and the most students and those who have completed colleges and who have offers to work in certain Serbian enterprises and other institutions, cannot do so because they have no citizenship. That is why it is necessary to immediately approach the amendments of this member, so that all those people who are forced not only to wait for citizenship from one year and a half to two years, which is insane, but to leave the territory of the Republic of Serbia as if they were complete foreigners, as if they were Germans, Americans, Swedishs, and not Serbians from Republika Srpska again and to register to the competent authority, in this case, the MUP unit and then to wait for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52339	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. The proposal was not accepted. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52340	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has submitted to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Law on the transplantation of human organs, or a member of the 23rd Law. Every position of this member is disputed by the aspect of the Constitution and guaranteed human rights. This law, i.e. this Article 23, fully disregards the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Article 23 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed, I quote, "People's dignity is unimpeached and everyone is obliged to respect and protect it. Everyone has the right to freely develop a person unless it violates the rights of others." Article 25. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees, quote, "The physical and psychological integrity is uninjurious. No one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment, or subjected to medical or scientific examinations without their free consent." The Constitutional Court will certainly make the only right decision, which is that Article 23. The human organ transplant law is not in line with the Article. 23rd and 25th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we have also submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on the transplantation of human organs and the abolition of the so-called so-called "registration of human organs". assumed consent to prevent the harmfulness of the application of this law and the violation of the Constitution. The main reason for proposing these amendments is the desire that the assumed consent of every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia to be an organ donor in the event of death and the assumed consent leaves a huge space for abuse and for organ trafficking, although this law explicitly prohibits and if treated as a serious crime. Given the numerous malfeasances within the health system of the Republic of Serbia, our suspicion is justified when it comes to assuming consent to the donation of the organs of all citizens. We propose written consent that would greatly reduce the possibility of abuse, and the Ministry of Health should act in the direction of donorship promotion and thus increase the number of donors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52341	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders, which separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, were defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and declare the borders of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, according to the rest of Serbia, as international borders. We in the Serbian Radical Party are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We do not blame the current regime for the situation of Kosovo and Metohija, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244, and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, who spent his entire life down there because of the violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. There should be no compromise on state territory while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians. You can see that the Republic of Croatia also shows no hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why I feel that by adopting a law like this, which I have proposed, I should create clear assumptions and the necessity of any placing of the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52343	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. No proposal accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. He's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52344	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on psychoactive controlled substances regulates relations in this area, as well as issues of exceptional importance for the health and safety of our citizens. As far as this is a complex and important area, it best illustrates the fact that representatives of health, education, home affairs, justice, work and social policy, sport and youth, culture and information, state administration and local self-government, as well as BIA representatives, participated in this law. Unfortunately, the fight against drug abuse is far from satisfactory. A few weeks ago, we all heard, it was discovered and taken away the largest amount of drugs in the last 10 years. However, this success, as well as similar successes in this area, had no special significance. Why? It's precisely because the production of drugs from which drugs are produced, as well as the laboratory where they are manufactured and produced, is so multiplied that these results have lost importance. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Drugs can also be prepared in ordinary kitchen conditions, and it is stronger, as it stands in this title, 800 times the marijuana or up to 1,000 times stronger than heroin. What's all this saying? This all says that we've lost every control of the production and use of drugs. These days, the issue of legalisation of Kannabis production, where expert opinion is divided, prevails in the view that Kanabis is a plant that causes addiction. I have to point out here another phenomenon, which is that drugs used to be a privilege of rich developed environments and large cities, and that today is not the case, that today is generally available even in small areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52345	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—19 MPs, against—no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52346	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly filed a law on incentives in agriculture that the ministry's resolute ministry should take seriously and accept it for a reason. The reason for the adoption of this law is that the state should stimulate manufacturers by increasing the cash amount of the milk premium in order to improve the position of the same. It is also necessary that the lower limit of milk per quarter, at which the premium is made, is reduced, especially where conditions for agricultural consumers are difficult and production is almost minimal. For this reason, the lower limit of the milk premium per quarter, instead of 1,500 litres, would be reduced to 1,000 litres, so that farmers with reduced production conditions could also exercise the right to a premium. In the same Article, paragraph 15 is replaced by the following: The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, we propose to increase the amount of milk premium from seven dinars per litre to 10 dinars per litre. It shall then be referred to in Article 18(1). The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development changes the amount of basic incentives for plant production, so let's say, by making an existing solution that provides that the amount of incentives per hectare would be up to a maximum of 6,000 dinars to at least 9,000 dinars. I use the opportunity, the presence of Mr. Nedimovic, to ask a question about loans from 2004 and 2005, agricultural loans approved by the Democratic Party, and they were not subsidies at that time, where between 40 and 240 thousand dinars took those loans, interest grew, people did not return, courts set interest double. So if they took 240,000 dinars, their interest is at 500,000 dinars. What about these loans, because people have such a problem that they can't even encourage, what they're doing in agriculture today can't get it? There are many of them who have spoken to me as a Messenger of the people. For example, in one municipality, 15 long-term loans were taken from around, say, 500,000 euros, up to 1,500 short-term loans, and at a nominal value of around 600,000 euros, where most were not returned in time, so that the debt value at a tight interest rate for this transitional period exceeds two and a half times the nominal value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52347	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18 MPs, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to put aside the law on enforcement and security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52348	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbian citizens look forward to the outcome of this vote. The Serbian Radical Party will not stop submitting the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security, primarily due to the introduction of private perpetrators. It is very important here to stress that there is dualism in our legal system when it comes to perpetrators, i.e. there are two types of perpetrators; one is a court, it is responsible for the execution of disputes on work disputes and on family relations. Everything else is mostly done by private contractors. Serbian citizens have identified them with a tsunami of all perpetrators, or the majority of perpetrators have identified them with natural disasters, as the elemental disasters are sometimes located in one part of the territory of the state, and when it comes to private perpetrators, they operate in the territory of all Serbia. It should only be noted that in 2017, 3,736 dwellings or housing facilities were executed, and at one point the state justified the existence of private perpetrators by the fact that it was free of charge for the state, that the state had no cost at all during that execution. This is all about a private institution because the public executioners are registered at the Business Registers Agency, so they don't have the character of public executioners at all. Only on a court order can a search be carried out for housing units, apartments and other housing facilities. However, private contractors continue to do so. An exception under the Constitution is provided when a search of the apartment can be carried out, that is, when searching for a direct perpetrator of a criminal offence or when trying to stop the execution of a crime that would cause major material or other damage. It should also be borne in mind that a number of private perpetrators have requested amendments and additions to this law. Do you know what they were looking for? They are dissatisfied again with the fact that they do not all have the same number of execution cases, so they cannot all be enriched in a very short time, as with some, last time I said, that one perpetrator has reported a profit of 1 million and 700,000 euros in a year. It's a ridiculously large amount that ordinary, honest citizens can never earn. The problem is also with private owners of apartments or housing units if the user of their living space was a tenant and did not carry out some of his obligations, and there are things in that housing unit that are owned by the owner of the apartment. He has to prove it's his because it can become the subject of execution. We really must put this law out of force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52349	Thank you, colleague Peric. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – there are among 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks with a request that the proposal be placed on the agenda of this session. We all know there's been a problem with textbooks a long time ago. In the last few years, however, the problem has culminated greatly. We simply have a situation to write textbooks each, betray each and every one of them. Instead of quantity leading to quality, it happened exactly the other way around. It's as if authors and publishers competed who will organize a worse and more generous textbook, and if this is looked at a little bit more, if you look at what these textbooks are like, there's literally only one conclusion, and that's that those publishers and authors are paid to make such textbooks. The law is so designed that there are different textbooks of different authors within one of these same schools, and then one class of school teaches one textbook at a time, in another class. The biggest problem is created in those textbooks relating to national culture and national history, where two of the most sensitive areas are concerned. We in the SRS are not for a single publishing house to have a monopoly in this area, even if it was a state institution, like the Bureau of Publishing textbooks, but we certainly are for this area to be governed by order. So we can't let what we've had so far. We had textbooks that in the most classic way insulted the public morals of Serbian citizens. So in one math textbook for the second grade of elementary school, there's an illustration where the girl washes her hands above the sink, whose tap resembles a man's full organ. If that's really true, here's the thing about the pictures, the camera can see. Look what this is about. Furthermore, two three years ago, a publishing house issued an atlas for children where the African continent was also shown in the form of a male sex organ. Look at the textbooks our children face. So I appeal to the ruling majority to adopt this proposal that asked for all those who had arranged and printed such textbooks to be taken away from them a permanent license for this activity. Hala.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52351	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for two, against those who are abstentioned, among the 159 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National sent Milan Lapcevic on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkić, 2 November 2016. Here's a colleague of Lapčević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52352	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People, we have proposed to amend the Law on Incentives in Agriculture in that part that speaks of incentives for cattle farmers, or for milk production. In 2013, the Act on Incentives in Agriculture was adopted, which defined those dealing with livestock and small and large milk producers as having to reach a certain amount of milk, to hand over to ransom stations in order to obtain a premium from the State. We believe that this is deeply unfair for small producers, especially those who live in rural areas, in mountainous and mountainous areas that are rich in particularly southeastern Serbia and western Serbia, agriculture households that are mostly nursing and have one or two cows and cannot, on this basis, reach that quarterly amount that is necessary to obtain a premium from the state, and in most cases, it is their only source of income and way of survival in these remote villages. It turns out that their milk is less valuable, less quality and less paid by the state, i.e. the state does not encourage and does not pay these miserable seven dinar premiums to those households that do not reach a figure of 3,000 liters of milk per quarter. We think it's really extremely unfair. You also have absurd situations to say within a village you have a household that has four or five cows and by handing over milk it is entitled to a premium of seven dinars. That milk is, like, a liter of 30 or 35 dinars, depending on the fat unit, and a neighbor who has one or two cows and doesn't reach that limit that the state has set, his milk will be seven touchier, or the state won't encourage him and help to survive. So to value people and those who deal with production, who live out of it, is extremely unfair, inhumane, and we think it is necessary to delete this provision of the Encouragement Act in agriculture so that people who hand over less milk can get help from the state and survive or possibly improve their agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52353	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for two, against those who are abstentioned, among the 159 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National sent Milan Lapcevic on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šulkić and Gorica Gajic, on 5 September 2017. Here's a colleague of Lapčević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52354	There is one illogicality in the proposal for a fiscal council law, i.e. the choice of members of the Fiscal Council, which consists of president and two members, and one is elected on a proposal from the President of the Republic, chosen by the National Assembly. The current provisions of the law say that a member of the Fiscal Council is proposed by the president of the Republic, a member of the NBS, and a member of the Finance Ministry. In order for the Fiscal Council to be an entirely independent and neutral institution and in a fair way to do its job, we feel it is necessary to change the way members of the Fiscal Council are elected so that the NBS and the Ministry of Finance cannot be proposing members of the Fiscal Council, because it is in some way in conflict of interest. The Fiscal Council has a certain kind of monitoring and deals with fiscal policy and what the Ministry of Finance, the Government, and the NBS does, directly affecting the overall financial situation in the country and affecting the daily lives of citizens, and therefore there is no logic that the NBS, which plays a major role in monetary fiscal policy, proposes its representative in the Fiscal Council to analyse these same NBS. The same is true for the Ministry of Finance. These can be people who propose certain professional associations, the Association of Economists of Serbia or the College of the University of Serbia, to come naturally from the ranks of experts, but to be completely independent and to have no direct connection with the Ministry of Finance or with the NBS, as this case solves. I think it's extremely logical and normal, and I believe that those who have this case have no reason not to support this proposal of mys to get into the agenda, but it seems to me that few of them are listening and that few of them are interested in today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52355	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for two, against those who are abstentioned, among the 158 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Labour Act, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šulkić and Gorica Gajic on 8 June 2017. Does MP Milan Lapčević want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52356	We have proposed an amendment to the Labour Act in the part that applies, which defines when an employer can, or when he can't fire an employee at a certain time. In Article 187. The labour law is said – during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for the care of a child, leave of work for special care of a child, treatment for serious injuries, so it is defined that then the employer cannot cancel or terminate the employment contract at a certain time. We suggest adding some more specifics and that in the event of treatment from serious injuries caused by accidents or other accidents, as well as in cases of treatment from serious diseases that endanger the employee of life, the employer can also not cancel the contract of employment at a certain time. We believe that this is a deep human thing, because we had a series of cases, one of those who occupied public interest was last year, that is, a pre-annual case of a Nis worker, who worked in a certain foreign company that was treated for the nature of the disease, had malignancies, had chemotherapy, could not return to work after a certain time, and the employer decided to cancel the labor contract and the woman was literally brought to the brink of existence by being unable to receive the salary and could not work because she was treated for a serious illness, which was life-threatening. In order not to repeat such cases and to prevent the diseases of those who have been threatened from being left to the mercy and mercy and good will of employers, we believe that the state has the right, and also the obligation to protect its citizens who are in this situation, and to prescribe by law that if someone is seriously ill, if he has had a serious car accident, he needs several months of recovery, treatment, that the employer cannot fire him for that time while he is being treated and until he is able to return to work, because in the most cases, these people are depending on and live on that salary because they are on a certain time, and the employer cancels his work contract and, of course, deny him the benefits he needs both for treatment and for a normal life. I expect, of course, that this law, too, to support the amendment of the law, because I have not heard from any of my colleagues that there is something against this, so it would be our turn to break this practice once that unless a proposal comes from the ranks of the ruling coalition not to be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52357	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. Now I'm putting this proposal to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has, of 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Milan Lapcevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Does MP Milan Lapcevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52358	Just because I'm lonely in something or just being supported by my colleague, Professor Chevarlic, doesn't mean I'm wrong about what I'm proposing. So this time, I'm going to explain my proposal, which is extremely well-intentioned and exceeded, and it's about amending the Value Added Tax Act in that part that treats the obligation to pay for losses from those who are users of baby equipment and baby food, products and baby equipment. It may not even be necessary to speak, or explain why this is necessary, if anyone who knows about demographic opportunities in Serbia has this in mind, will gladly support and raise his hand for any measure that can encourage birth in this country. We are a nation that is unfortunately one of the oldest in Europe. Our natural growth has been stagnation and decline for years. The average age of our population is over 45 years. We are very little renewed, and the number of children per family, or by mother, is disastrously low. The measures the Government has taken in terms of birth incentives in recent years are good measures and I have supported them here in Parliament and I will always support any measure of any MP, any structure to come, the proposal, I will always be happy to support, because it is the most necessary thing this country must do. We're free of all the arrangements, we're free of all the constructions, we can be the richest and most decorated country in the world, that we have the best standard, if we don't have natural growth, if we don't have a new young, capable population who will naturally have a good education and everything that goes with it, it's absolutely meaningless to us. I think that any measure that encourages birth, which helps young parents to have more children, is a good measure, and it must have absolute priority in every budget, in the thinking of every member of the government, every minister, every state official, if we have little responsibility for the future of our nation. Products and equipment for babies at a minimum amount, i.e. taxes on products and baby equipment at a minimum amount measured by decimals, are participating in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia. I really don't see any of the only rational rational reasons why this baby equipment tax would not be abolished and thus fostered a population policy and stimulated birth, or easier child rearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52359	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has, of 156. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Here you go, Professor. Chesaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52360	Thank you, Vice President. Before I refer to the proposal for a declaration of genetically modified organisms, I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that we four MPs Milan Lapcevic, Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and I have submitted a proposal to supplement the agenda of today's session under the title – to submit and discuss the report on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, negotiations conducted by top state officials since the signing of the Brussels Agreement until today. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been adopted with an explanation that the proposals complement the agenda on current political issues can only be proposed by parliamentary groups. I think it is high time that after three years of working this call to the National Assembly we have a debate on this subject, not only through the means of information we listen to what MPs are doing in the Assembly of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to the proposal to supplement the agenda, it is a proposal that you already know, it is particularly important now after the adoption of amendments and additions to the Food Safety Act that has genetically modified food introduced as a special food group. It should be borne in mind that at the time I proposed the text of this declaration, there were no MPs from 72 municipalities and four cities in the National Assembly. So the question is, who are the citizens of 76 municipalities and cities? That is why we have this situation so that the MPs are only following the orders of the party president, that is, the parliamentary group. This is why around 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities and cities who for the first time in Serbia's history have unanimously declared themselves against imports, cultivation, processing and traffic to GMOs cannot get support from even folk MPs living in their territory. This is also the moment to invite citizens to the gathering and protest legitimately on the third Saturday of May, when we will gather again to fight for Serbia without GMOs, a team before the European Food Safety Authority launched a procedure under the European Court order yesterday to review the use of all pesticides based on glyphosate, without whose application it is impossible to cultivate GMOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52361	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – 18 MPs, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vladimir Djuric proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – a draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of pension cuts under the Law on the provisional way of determining pension payments. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I find that we don't have the necessary majority, no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated to the pre-election campaign. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52362	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's this person. So, Bosko Obradovic, in a people known as "Bosko Ljotic", in Kosovo known as "Bosici Ljotici", recently announced a coup two months ago. You've all forgotten that he's been calling on the military and the police to arrest the legally elected president of the Republic. On the first week of the big post, the big believer, the protector of the masseuse, the robber of the Djurje's pillars, the robber of Hilandar, the robber of the colombian miners, in my opinion, tried it. Once in the Middle Ages, the power was taken away by using a log called "van", so that some doors were broken, and his companion Gilas went one step ahead and instead of the ram used "Bosko Ljotica" and his fascist phalanges. So, since he took 250,000 euros or 30 million against the budget, because he did not return them neutrally after the election campaign, I ask that at least one-third bet on poor children, since some rich people's children, some former officials, lead them in an effort to take over Serbia's Radio Television. He imagined freedom of the media by taking and winning the medium, and fighting censorship by personally wanting to order what he could do in the program. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in every coup of the Fascist Falange or the revolutionary group, take over the state medium. Don't lie, I'm against the release of the children of some officials, editors of Beta, advisers of St. Marovic, director of the Resavica mine, etc. I'm for those other poor kids to let go. But we're sending a bad message and Bosko Ljotic on this one won't stop, he'll keep trying to skate towards terrorism and you haven't done him any favors, Mr. Prosecutors and Judges, which he hasn't been arrested and could have been arrested several times. The MP, which Mr. Seselj knows, who has been found committing a crime for whom a sentence greater than five years has been threatened must be arrested, Mrs. Dolovac. We should have done it. Evil is beaten while it is little, but when evil takes hold, it grows stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52363	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 27 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that Mr Obradovic, better known as Bosko Ljotic, and I am sorry that DS became the hostage of the Latvian phalanges, therefore, is known to have collaborated with Bulgarian ATAK, with Bosko Pernar, whose grandfather here asked, not here, in another place in Belgrade, because it is Serbian blood. It's also known that he's been working with the Alternative for Germany. It's a neo-Nazi organization. It is also known that he worked with the Workers' Front from Zagreb. So these are the ones who have been running the Serbia-Croatian revolution here. I, the Zagreb Workers' Front, suggest that they raise that revolution with Bosko Ljotic, take him there, and raise her in Croatia. We've had enough of the revolution. They are reportedly against Brussels, but in Belgrade, and in Croatia, all EU funds. So it is about the lady who is from Zagreb with her sympathisers coming to strengthen Gilas and Boško Ljotic. Also, we have Omer Berbic from Tuzla, his party is called Our Party, who also forgets the column they killed, wants to say that Tuzla is a citizen, forgetting the column of young soldiers they killed, and he is coming to support Bosko in Belgrade, and trying to execute the revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, they need to get in the way. Here we have ISIS Muhamed Cengic, who supports alleged civil protests in Belgrade because of Jeremic, with an attempt to take power violently in Serbia. I, once again, ask RTS to calculate how much live, how much live, how much live, what hours, tens of hours, hundreds of hours, how much Bosko Ljotic, Bosko Obradović, used live time on RTS channels, to calculate how much live time he's been on RTS for the past two years, and to calculate how much live time he's been President of the Republic. You will get information that there are no censorships, you will get an estimate that Bosko Ljotic was live on the RTS channels at least five times as much as he was live on RTS channels. Such a man entered the RTS with the intention of taking her over and sharing this people, and of our division, only our opponents can benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52365	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The MP is not in the O.R., and I'm putting this proposal to the vote, it was submitted on October 15th, it's nothing old, it's a new proposal. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the motion for a resolution on the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire in the period from 1915. In 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote – for – one MP. Ambassador Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52366	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is Dragan Gilas, millionaire, multimillionaire, billionaire. This is a picture from two days ago. He broke the fence in front of the presidency, with a desire to enter and deal physically with a legally elected president. Also, it's about the person who got into RTS. But in 2010, I don't know how many cameras this could show, in 2010, Dragan Djilas arrested 207 young people, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, arrested 207 young people in demonstrations that took place in Belgrade. This is police treatment, ten foot one. In this way, Ranko Panic, cokulama, brutally beaten, died of these consequences. But you can well see that the police were cruel with people passing by the RTS with the desire to demonstrate themselves cruelly, and he sought years of imprisonment for them along with Tom Zoric and with Home. Dragan Gilas became a millionaire by taking the highway money from RTS towards his pockets. So, the advertising market was all his, and through advertising he controlled the media, no one could write anything bad about him, because in that case he wouldn't get commercials and his media would be closed. Dragan Gilas owned it because he was the mayor of the media. Dragan Gilas now owns several TV channels. Dragan Gilas has dozens of companies. Dragan Gilas earned 720m euros. Dragan Gilas translated 80 billion dinars. Dragan Gilas revolutionized the millionaires against the poor, who paid a fee on RTS, so that he could fill his pockets through commercials. That highway money from RTS according to his pockets was cut off. He's running a million-dollar revolution against the millions he's robbed, left without a job, etc. Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic were to be arrested and my objection to Zagorki Dolovac and the judicial system, why the two were not currently arrested, because, in my opinion, they tried to carry out a coup, and the least they did was violent behavior in the group. Dragan Gilas owns one television. Dragan Gilas is accompanied by his television N1 and the N1 behaves where Gilas and Solak tell you, tie N1 where they tell you. So, along with his television, he went in and took another television. Why didn't he take them to N1? Because no one's gonna look at it. He's looking and they're all asking us to force people to watch N1 by force to read "Time" and "Today". I believe they can call themselves brains, but the judicial authorities need to do their job. Out of their hate, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52367	Thank you. I'll take your time from another exhibit, I've spoken to Ambassador Chevarlic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify facts and circumstances related to affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence organisations and spy services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about the MP and the MP who wrote in her own biography that she had passed the CIA training. I can't believe there can be a congressman in America, a senator or anyone involved in politics and has some state function, so I don't believe he can become mayor of any city in the United States, and that in his biography, he doesn't write that he's been trained by the BIA and that he's been trained by Russian intelligence services, and that he stays in that place, so that person in America can't exist. He can't keep public office. It's about a person who supports and I call this a coup attempt. It is a person who claims that certain decisions have been made on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the history of counterfeits. So the revolution they've been trying to execute these days and our people need to know, especially this poorer layer. There's a saying -- that they're raising a revolution, and the other one is using it. So I believe that from these attempts at violent takeover of power, there is an attempt to make sure that those who have legitimately and legally lost more choices, that violently by changing power get their hands on citizens' pockets again. Citizens got rid of their hands in their pockets. Citizens got rid of the government that fired 400,000 people, who shut down hundreds of factories, who robbed and stole everything that wasn't nailed to the country. Citizens got rid of it, and Mrs. Jerkov, in co-operation with foreign intelligence services along with Mr. Gilas and Bosko Obradovic, along with Jeremic, is actively trying to participate in the destruction, not only of the authorities, but of trying to bring down Serbia's own state. So it's no secret that they went to Macedonia, it's no secret that they met with US intelligence services working at our embassy, it's no secret that in Skopje they agreed with all those who want to destroy Serbia, it's no secret that many have passed training in Pristina. So it's a very dangerous phenomenon. I think it's time to form a survey board and examine all these actions, not just Mrs and Miss Jerkov, but all those who today, at no cost, want to bring down what the state has created in the last few years, to bring down investments, to pollute space for some new investments, to make workers out of work again. I'm not defending power here, I'm defending the state here and its right to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52369	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Dear ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the delegation of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of Parliament of the Czech Republic, which are in the official visit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that a point be placed on the agenda – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the shareholders' insurance company "Such insurance" Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on it, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about a big new revolutionary. The one who put on a Vietnamese woman and put on a 35,000-euro roll. He was lucky that the pickpockets didn't visit the rally, they could take off this roller coaster. I recommend that the next time he goes into the revolution and puts on a stand for that revolution, that he leave the watch in the safe anyway. So, Vuk Jeremic with a pack of 1,500-euro cigars, with a score of 15,000-35,000 euros, should keep himself in the safe, given that he has povertyed along with DS this society. So Vuk Jeremic actively participated in the construction of the wild state of KIM. He put us in a difficult situation. Independence was declared in 2004, i.e. the pogrom was in 2004. They did not lift a small finger to protect the Serbian people. They burned down two mosques, I guess, to show that we are worse than those who persecuted the Serbian people. Kosovo's independence was declared in 2008. They agreed with the US Embassy to delay the adoption of a declaration of independence until Tadic's election as president and that was done. Tadic took an oath on February 14th and on February 17th 2008, Albanians declared independence. They had to pay that price, so they proposed with Catherine Ashton a resolution that eliminated Russia and China, which could help us, by replacing the UN with EULEX, but that wasn't enough either. To strengthen Kosovo's independence and create a document on which Thaci, Albanians and Haradinaj are now calling, Mr Jeremic proposed and asked for the International Court of Justice's opinion from those who have already recognised Kosovo and Metohija and the International Court of Justice's opinion on that and how it has made the position of the Republic of Serbia more difficult. So, I think we should educate the Survey Committee that will deal with this period, which will deal with Jeremic and not only Jeremic, but also Tadic and that we can clearly see who sold all of them to the country for the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52371	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, abstention - one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts of the circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and the storm. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52372	That hour I saw Jeremic thanks to the Vietnamese and this staging of a revolutionary. Imagine when someone has 7.5m euros, who got Patrick Ho, we don't know what they got from the Catharic Embassy in Germany, I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of euros, when they won't admit what they paid for, you can think if they'll admit why they're wearing them, I think Mark Vidojkovic here has plagiarized, praises only five more. Here is a photograph of Jeremic's right-hand man, members of five parties, six coalitions, that doesn't count, a very combative person recently claiming that police attacked peaceful citizens on the fourth floor of RTS, armed with only whistles. She and the motor saw is like a whistle. Here's her greeting. It stands next to Bosko Ljotic, the leader of the Ljotic phalanges and the only remembered fascist in the Republic of Serbia. Here is Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who, with a greeting, who is not suitable for Serbs, besides Boško Obradovic, welcomes their protesters. It's a greeting that combines both home-ready and high hitler, etc., but that's not just what we're dealing with. Here is Muhamed Cengic's support for Jeremic and Sanda's party, which says Vuk Jeremic has to be president of Serbia. So here is their support and a certain Isaac, not to read the name, which directly from the ISIS front hails Jeremic and Sandu Raskovic. Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget that she said that there was genocide in Srebrenica, which violated the National Assembly document, which found it to be a major crime, but not genocide. Also, Sanda Raskovic Ivić said for the persecution of Serbs from Croatia, that the "Storm" action was a humanitarian character, and I think it has done us harm not only to the citizens who live here, but also to those citizens who remain in Croatia's territory. I think we need to start a survey committee to deal with these issues. Their hatred doesn't interest me. So their hatred can only benefit our opponents. I repeat, if their hatred turned into electrical energy, the hatred of this quasi of the opposition, the revolutionaries, the violent one, would shine on the whole world.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52373	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 19 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Maja Gojkovic, in line with the Rules of Procedure, suggested a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -132, v - 17 abstentions – no, 10 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted my proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts by emergency procedure and supplementation, I would like to put the draft agenda in general. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there are no nine MPs for - 133, against -17, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on the financing of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and 2. Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. The MPs came out. I am sorry that we did not have the opportunity to welcome the delegation of the parliamentary group for co-operation with the countries of the Western Balkans of the Republic of Poland, because they were here while we were establishing the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 190. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on the financing of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. Does a representative of the promoter, Ambassador Nenad Canak, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52374	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, in this parliament last discussed the AP Vojvodina issue in 2002, when it was voted on by an omnibus law which returned about 200 provisions from 24 areas to the AP Vojvodina since they were counter-constitutionally usurped by the centralist authorities of Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Since then, there have been several changes and this centralisation rather than leaving political practice in Serbia, it has continued to exist and this has led to a number of problems not only in Vojvodina but throughout Serbia, so that we may have had the most impressive example that Novi Sad and Nis, two of the largest cities in Serbia, except Belgrade, did not have police chiefs in one period of four years, because there could be no political agreement in the then ruling majority on such a simple issue. All in all, since the issue of the Vojvodina is a democratic issue, and the question of respect for the identity of Vojvodina and the issue of the adoption of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina are issues of first-class political importance for the Republic of Serbia, I will have those who have no patience to listen to what I have to say now by asking for a historical review, how we came into this situation, which begins two centuries ago. So the idea of Vojvodina and its autonomy is even older than the two centuries I mention. She had different ideological signs. It was realized in different controlled frameworks, but the struggle for its self - worth prevailed over all of them. When war activities calmed in this part of Europe in the middle of the 18th century and the situation stabilized, the Serb population in the southern parts of the Austrian Empire of the Habsburg monarchy began to demand the extension of its privileges and rights. The most important political gathering before 1848, on which they sought their own separate territorial unit was the Themisvary Assembly in 1790. This puts the foundations of autonomous requirements and aspirations for the formation of the Serbian duchy in a political sense. The notion of Vojvodina in territorial terms throughout history will, as in the case of other historical territorial entities, change and vary. However, under the Duke's space from the XVIII to the 20th century in various state and historical contexts were Banat, Baka, Baranja and most of the Srema. Politically more modern consensus on the formulation of the idea of Vojvodina took place at the May Assembly held from May 13th to May 15th 1848 in Sremski Karlovci. The rebel Serbs in the great European Revolution in 1848/1849 are seeking Serbian Vojvodina with the territories of Srema, Banat with the Kickindian District, Baka with the Shayak district, Baranja and the military borders. It was a conceptually first-rounded programme of territorial autonomy as a nationalally restricted Serbian space. The revolutionaries in 1848 sought their clear territorial unit and defined its borders and name within the Habsburg monarchy. Decisions inspired by the revolutionary ideas of national and liberal movements in Europe during 1848 were based on rights and privileges granted by Austrian Emperor Leopold I to Serbs as an ethno-confessional group in 1691 and 1695, which they considered to be the legal and historical basis of their autonomy. Such Serbian demands will call into question the territorial integrity of the monarchy, in particular the concept of the Hungarian revolutionary and nationalist movement. As a result, requests from the May Assembly met with decisive political resistance from the leaders of the Hungarian revolution, which will assess them with illegal, rebel, separatist and contrary to Hungarian historical rights and aspirations to establish a Hungarian political nation. Vojvodina and the idea of its autonomy in the 19th century Hungarian, as much as in the 20th century Serbian nationalism, was an obstacle to establishing a homogeneous and unitary national state. The next decade until the start of the First World War, Serbia's autonomous aspirations will be reduced to not church-based school frameworks and politically marginalised. However, since the Mayan Assembly in 1848, she has insisted on the historical name of Vojvodina, the need for its self-loathing, territorial restraint and specific identity characteristics. All of this will be the basis for the pursuit of Vojvodina's liberal citizenship in the Yugoslav phase of defence of self-government rights, no longer as a Serbian but supranational autonomy of Vojvodina. The new idea of affirmation during World War I, as well as their outcome, essentially changed the state-law position and status of Vojvodina. It was a crucial moment in the constitution of the Southern Slovenian common state in 1918, and different ideological groups and political entities from Vojvodina participated in these historic processes, most intensely in the last war year, when the issue of Vojvodina space status was clearly raised. Among them, there is a consensus on the necessity of a state-law break-up of Vojvodina with Hungary, but it differs deeply on issues of its future status. The question was raised – will Vojvodina be treated as a historic province with its own subjectivity, so that it is politically realised and affirmed in the Yugoslav state framework, or will previous accession to Serbia lose its historical identity and drown in a single Serbian country in its creation? This expressed two tendencies in the political life of Vojvodina that would characterize the next decade, a wider pro-Yugoslavic and narrow Serbian and nationalist concept of the future status and constitutional position of Vojvodina. The Yugoslav idea and the broader framework of a solution to its position were represented by politicians of democratic orientation by individual intellectuals, primarily Vasa Stajic, Tihomir Ostojic, Petar Konjovic, etc. They were opposed to the concept of a nationalist radical party led by Jasa Tomic, which propagates the unconditional drowning of Vojvodina in the Kingdom of Serbia as its primary political national goal. Radicals also accept the Yugoslav state order and unification, but only after the Serbian ethnic space has been clearly circled, so after the realization of the idea of universal unification. The debate was one of the key in the Grand National Assembly in Novi Sad on November 25th 1918, where the representatives of Slovenian peoples prevailed with the presence of radical supporters of Jasa Tomic, which is why the Assembly brings the resolution that Vojvodina directly enters the Kingdom of Serbia, as well as that everything is done to realize and a single Southern Slovenian state. The alternative concept represented the thesis on the preservation of the political subjectivity of Vojvodina, which would make it a historic province to join the transparent state of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs. Vojvodjanska Radicals, meanwhile, who merged with Serbian radicals Nikola Pasic in March 1919, represented the constitutional debates of the most extreme political wing of the centralist forces. They strongly opposed the application of any historical or tribal criteria in the suggestions of the federal arrangement of the Kingdom. They said it was not uncommon for Vojvodina to join Serbia unconditionally, as well as forbade selfish autonomous separatism in order to homogenise Serbia. The radical fear of federalist constitutional concepts was motivated by both ideological and demographic reasons. At that time, Serbs had only about a third of the population in the Vojvodina territory, 33.7%, so any constitution of Vojvodina as units within the decentralised Yugoslavia would lead the national community to majorisation, as they then considered it. In a constitutional debate on drafts for the highest constitutional act of the new Southern Slovenian community that envisioned the construction of a complex state on historical grounds, radicals saw relapses of the hostile influences of the prevailing state legal framework and inherited so-called "the" so-called "registration". "Austrian" and "contractuals". The firm opposition to historicalism and the pursuit of the disappearance of any sign of autonomy, however, was a confirmation of the survival of the idea of Vojvodina as its own historical subject. Vojvodina did not disappear, however, by the act of unconditional accession to Serbia. On these grounds, Vojvodina's liberal citizenship will base its political aspirations and demand autonomous rights in the coming years. The centralisation that has always held back behind Serbian patriotic rhetoric in Vojvodina has brought rapid poverty caused by tax burdens that were the largest in Yugoslavia. Thus, according to the 1925 Ministry of Finance, which is the first year for which the exact accounts in Vojvodina are charged 131 million 336 thousand 108 dinars, while in the whole so-called so-called. "Serbian bloc" Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Macedonia, which had over four times the population of Vojvodina charged nearly half 60 million 212,000 689 dinars. In Croatia and Slavonia, 66 million 889 thousand dinars, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina 30 million 66 000 204 dinars, in Slovenia 56 million 570, 775 dinars and in Dalmatia 10 million 777 thousand 467 dinars. The fact that every Vojvodina resident paid ten times the direct burden of citizens of Serbia, gave historians the basis to call it a tax robbery. According to the calculations by historians for the decade 1919 to 1928, every citizen of Vojvodina paid an average of 939 dinars per year, while the resident of the so-called “Vojvodine” paid an average of 939 dinars per year. The "Serbian bloc" paid only 180 dinars, Slovenia 507, Croatia and Slavonia 406, Dalmatia 230 and Bosnia and Herzegovina 267 dinars. Even after equating the tax and uniting of the state after the seduction of the six-year dictatorship in 1929 and dividing the country into banks, large differences in the tax burdens of different parts of the Kingdom were maintained. The Danube Banina, whose base was the territory of former Vojvodina, was three and a half times more taxed than the ethnic Serb parts of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. These proportions, when it comes to budgeting, would completely rotate when it comes to wasteful foreign investment. According to the first official data available from 1925, the Ministry of Construction invested 16 million in Vojvodina, while in so-called "the Ministry of Construction". The "Serbian bloc" invested as much as 220 million dinars. According to the construction ministry itself, 63% were invested in Serbia in the decade 1925 to 1934 and only 4% of the ministry's budget in Vojvodina. Similar proportions are in other ministries that were active in investment, so the Ministry of Transport in Serbia, all together with Macedonia, invested 84% of its budget in the period 920-935 and only two and a half percent in Vojvodina. If that proportion was justified in the first postwar years, due to Serbia's war-devastation, the extension of the treatment of Vojvodina, but also of other busy areas, as conquered territories, lost justification because the duration of the status was raised to an entire inter-war period, meaning from 1918 to 1941. During the twenty-thirty years of the 20th century, under the repressive measures of dictatorship, an inappropriate economic exploitation in Vojvodina was created in a broad autonomous front aimed at changing the status and constitutional position of this historic province. Most political entities in Vojvodina are the stance on the necessity of the area's state-law status, defined at the Sombor Conference, held semi-legally in July 1932 in the apartment of politicians, Jovan Lalosevic. The host of the gathering and champion of the Somboric Radicals, Lalosevic, darkly presented the decades-long balance of Vojvodina in Yugoslavia, saying: "That at the time of entering the new state, it was rich, arranged, full and progressive and economical and cultural and social. He described the current situation in Vojvodina as a squeezed lemon because it was ruined, destroyed, economically driven to a beggar stick," the quote was completed. The key causes of the poverty and the devastation of Vojvodina, he identified in the tax inequality and burden of Vojvodina, the destruction of municipal self-government, the administrative disorder, the corrupt and incompetent activities that were brought on the side, and in this assembly a famous Sombor revolution was brought which required urgent, quote... (Vojislav Seselj: Resolution. I said the resolution. (Vojislav Seselj: You said revolution. Here, let your colleagues tell you. You said revolution. Let go of the revolution. ) There are too many letters "R" to discuss. (Vojislav Seselj: Stop the revolution. ) Therefore, it is the Somborian Resolution, which demanded that the principle of the Vojvodina of Vojvodina be implemented immediately, with the same rights that other provinces would enjoy and with the same administrative system as they would be introduced into other provinces. It is further requested that the position in the state administration on the territory of Vojvodina be filled with Vojvodina, as well as that the citizens of Vojvodina have their representative representatives in the government and all state institutions in Belgrade. The Somborian Conference and the Resolution adopted are the fact that the work of the Vojvodina Front is a supranational and anti-centralist group of political parties, which acted with the aim of redecorating the state and achieving the goal of Vojvodina autonomy. The Somborian Resolution has returned to the political nomenclature rhetoric, historical notion and the name of Vojvodina within the borders of Banat, Backa, Baranja and the works of Srema. Following Somborska, the show followed in 1932, where diverse political actors sought a state legal solution to the Vojvodina issue. The political agenda of the Vojvodina front, as a political plural association, which will articulate the Vojvodina issue as constitutional, sought the federalisation of Yugoslavia, in which Vojvodina would be a federal unit, equal to others. The federal status was considered necessary, as a form of self-defense of Vojvodina against abuse and economic exploitation. According to the interpretation of the Independent Democratic Party, the Vojvodina issue has emerged because of economic problems, it is said -- "that's where Serbs lead, it's not separatism, it's self-defense of the duchy, in Vojvodina the economic motive is the main one". Closed quotes. In this way, the liberal predominantly Serbian citizenship has imposed a Vojvodina issue as a constitutional but democratic issue, rejecting the concepts of nationalist circles that opposed each of its autonomy. Despite objections from Belgrade, the Novosada and the Somborian resolution affirmed the idea of Vojvodina autonomy and strengthened its self-awareness, as well as opposition and democratic movements in it. The platform of a liberal duchy front was supported by an illegal KPJ, which advocated the federal redecoration of the state with Vojvodina as a separate unit. The above-mentioned stance is more explicit than others expressed by Zarko Zrenjanin, the first man of the communist party in Vojvodina, who formulated a platform for the federal position of Vojvodina in Yugoslavia. Citing the specificities of the Vojvodina in the economic and national sphere, he wrote that this independent historical unit, with its tradition, cannot be included without consequences for its peoples in any province, which is why, he believed, Vojvodina should be an equal unit in future state redecoration with other provinces. And there is no need to be surprised at the success of the National Liberation Movement in Vojvodina. After the Nazi German attack in Yugoslavia in 1941, military capitulation and occupation division of the state, Vojvodina fell under three repressive occupation regimes. Srem was included in the composition of the country's Quislin independent state of Croatia, Bačka and Baranja, while Banat was under special German administration. The anti-fascist movement in Vojvodina was organised and developed in 1941 in Backo and Banat, as well as in Srem. The KPJ-led Partisan anti-fascist movement has been opening the issue in Vojvodina in a future federal arrangement, which will arise during the war and after the country's release. It is a clear political commitment to Vojvodina's autonomy in the process of federalisation of the Yugoslav state. On the successes of the duchy partisan units on the front, but also the constitution of political and military institutions of the duchy character, the main headquarters for Vojvodina, the main National Liberation Committee of Vojvodina, the province's KPJ Committee for Vojvodina, provided a basis for a different solution to Vojvodina's status and undoubtedly anti-cipated its equal status in the new Federation that was created. In this sense, the political and military institutionalisation of the people's Liberation Movement of Vojvodina and the highly developed anti-fascist movement have historically defined its autonomous status as Yugoslav units, because in the war formed the province's institutions were directly related to Yugoslav leadership and its direct political and military powers. However, the decisions of the 2nd AVNOJ session in 1943 have established the Yugoslav Federation on national rather than historical grounds, with the exception of BiH. This is why Vojvodina was not mentioned at the Second AVNOJ meeting, probably as a result of the fact that after the death of Žarko Zrenjanin in November 1942, it was politically under-represented and without its influential man in the party summit. The constitution of Vojvodina's autonomy and its binding to Serbia ended after the final release of Yugoslavia from fascism in 30th, 31st July 1945 at the Assembly of Envoys of the peoples of Vojvodina Serbs, Hungarians, Croats, Slovaks, Romanians, Russians and Jews. It has made the basis of historic, national and other specific decisions on the establishment of Vojvodina in an autonomous province. At the same time, the Assembly decided that the autonomous province should be attached to Serbia as the federal unit of the new Yugoslavia. It is important to point out that from the ranks of all the listed peoples, he spoke of one representative who supported the stance on Serbia's autonomous Vojvodina. Their statements were officially and printed with the Assembly's decision in the Vojvodina Official Journal, thus gaining legal power, but it was also stressed that the peoples of Vojvodina were on the basis of its autonomy as constituents. Also, in a formal and legal sense, it is important to affirm accession from 1945. Namely, decisions by the internationally recognised interim National Assembly of the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia, which sat here on that occasion, decided that the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina should be assigned to Serbia as the federal unit of the new Yugoslavia. It is particularly stressed that there is no continuity between pre-war and today's Yugoslavia in terms of its internal arrangement. Internationally, the new Yugoslavia, under the rule of the communists, has accepted continuity with the kingdom, but in the internal order, full legal, revolutionary discontinuity has been declared. As a result, it was also formal-law, but it was also politically necessary to restore the relationship of Vojvodina with Serbia in 1945. The MPs' Assembly's decisions as a national and political plural institution verified AVNOJ at its Third Session on 10 August 1945, on the same day it grew into the interim National Assembly of the DF Yugoslavia, the most legislative and representative body of the new Yugoslavia, which also had a full international recognition of all members of the anti-fascist coalition. However, as early as September 1st 1945, the presidency of the new National Assembly of Serbia passed the Law establishing and forming the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Serbia's leadership over the said act has tried to tighten the interpretation of which Vojvodina's autonomy has formed Serbia. The law has raised the question of who established the autonomy of Vojvodina and whether it legally devises the decision of the Assembly of Representatives of the people of Vojvodina and the confirmation of the Yugoslav Assembly since 10 August 1945. After the war, in measures of confiscation, colonization, as well as forced buy-in and nationalisation, Vojvodina largely changed not only ethnic but also social structure, losing the previous and interethnic balance and economic basis of its autonomy, and this was a developed middle class. When those processes in the economy were added to the move of business entities to the west of Yugoslavia due to the prospect of Stalin's aggression in Yugoslavia, after 1948, which was believed to have gone over the Vojvodina plain, as well as the still rigid centralist system and the formal character of autonomy, the economic downturn of Vojvodina was fully expected at the end of the 40s and 50s. However, Vojvodina was most affected by the forced accumulation of capital in order to industrial development at the expense of agricultural production. According to economists, over the distribution of the prices of agricultural industrial products in Yugoslavia, about five billion dollars were poured from agriculture to industry between 1952 and 1966. Taking into account the structure of the Vojvodina economy, it is estimated that more than two billion dollars have been taken from Vojvodina in this way and pumped into industrialization. A particular problem is the fact that the construction of industrial plants during that period bypassed Vojvodina, but was particularly devastating exactly the reverse process, the removal of already existing industrial plants from Vojvodina. In the period 1945-1951, it was taken from Vojvodina without compensation and moved to other parts of Yugoslavia 59 industrial enterprises, including power plants, foundries, chemical factories, wood industry factories, presses, bricks, kudeliers, sugars, olives, mills, etc. With all this, none of the 66 factories that Yugoslavia has received from Germany in the name of war damage has been placed in Vojvodina. If this adds to the dramatic disparity of prices between industry and agriculture, it is no wonder the economists' view that Vojvodina has contributed enormously to the formation of accumulation to Yugoslavia by losing huge funds to its own development. By the end of the 1960s, the economic development of Vojvodina had slowed down and it was lagging behind in relation to other parts of the country. Under the circumstances of major economic disasters in which the province was located in the '50s, already in the early '60s it seemed to create conditions to degrade it and politically. Due to the permanent attempts by Serbia's leadership to change and transform the historical sense of establishing Vojvodina autonomy after 1945, discussions at the Yugoslav summit in the early 1960s put the duchy issue in the first place, which was reopened. The goal was to resolve the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy in a different way before the new constitution was adopted in 1963, and finally abolished at the end. Serbia's state-run party leadership's demands went too well to challenge the very foundations of autonomy, attempts to express it exclusively as the province of Serbia, which the Republic has unilaterally established and whose status can change at any moment. The lack of understanding and non-acceptation of the complex state's idea was expressed in the Serbian party summit and during attacks on the very foundations of the province's autonomy and the threat of its identity and further development. At the time, researchers were keen to legalise the view that Serbia can be established in a national state because of its complex character, i.e. the province's existence. The Serbian state-run party summit, which acted under the strong influence of Yugoslav Vice-President Aleksandar Rankovic, relativated the historical concepts and continuity of Vojvodina's autonomy, marginalised the historical importance of its multinational structure in the process of establishing autonomy and justification for autonomy as categories of Yugoslav federalism. However, in the changed circumstances of Yugoslavia, in the second half of the 1960s, due to the temporary supremacy of the reform orientation in society, following the shift of Aleksandar Rankovic, deep changes were made to the Federation from 1967 to 1971. Out of the three groups, the second set of amendments to the Constitution, the Yugoslav Assembly declared on December 26th 1968, and it dominated the position of autonomous provinces. Of the 13 amendments, most of the amendments went after the effort to strengthen the subjectivity of the Republic and the provinces. The 18th amendment explicitly states that the Yugoslav Federation protects the constitutional rights and duties of autonomous provinces, which Serbia has seen as interference with its sovereign rights. The 1968 amendments further predicted that the territory of autonomous provinces could not be changed without the consent of the province's congregations. The province's judicial system is even with those in the republics, and Vojvodina has won its Supreme Court. The third group of amendments to the constitution, declared in the SFRJ Assembly on June 30th 1971, bringing the most fundamental changes to Yugoslav federalism, further expanding the province's competences. The republics and provinces had the right to veto when they estimated that their vital interests were at stake. The Constitution could also be changed by a decision of the Federal Assembly with the consent of the congregations of all republics and autonomous provinces, therefore, by consensus. Constitutional reforms and the transmutation of Yugoslav federalism, which went towards further decentralisation, strengthening of republican statehood and a significant increase in the province's jurisdiction, have not gone without strong resistance in Serbia. Part of Serbia's republican leadership and influential parts of nationalist intelligence, dissatisfied with the proposed solutions, organised a debate at the Faculty of Law in 1971 that markedly attacked, above all, the expansion of the province's autonomy. Nevertheless, the constitutional changes adopted have been heading towards further democratisation of society and decentralisation of the country, and above all the situation of the provinces that have gained significantly wider autonomy has changed. The end of the constitutional reform was marked by the establishment of the 1974 Constitution. The position of Vojvodina in the Yugoslav Federation has been guaranteed by the legislative, executive and judicial authority, the right to property and the availability of its own revenues. The Dukean autonomy was guaranteed by the federal constitution and the right veto that it possessed. These preconditions have created a period of historically incomparable economic development of Vojvodina. The same year 1974, when the last Yugoslav Constitution was adopted, and Vojvodina received full and essential autonomy by adopting its constitution. It happens at that time, as a result of full autonomy, the greatest and most intense economic rise of Vojvodina. The gross social product per capita, which is the best measure of the real life of people, in Vojvodina has already been equaled with Croatia in 1975, was only Slovenia in front of it. Croatia with 17,500 dinars per capita, Slovenia and Vojvodina with over 16,000 included, according to international criteria, developed parts of the world. Serbia was then at the Federation level, medium developed with a tendency to fall, and all others -- Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro were below 10,000 dinars per head and counted in undeveloped areas. By the mid-60s, Vojvodina, as an undeveloped part of Yugoslavia, in 1968, won its first essential autonomous rights, already in 1971, was developed at the Federation level, in 1971 and autonomy was expanded, and it was established in 1974 and in 1975 that Vojvodina was the most developed part in economic accounts. This is all happening while Yugoslavia and Europe in the 1970s and 1980s stagnated as a result of the economic recession. According to data from this period, more than 250 factories in Vojvodina were reconstructed, including: "Naftagas", Azotara in Pancheva, "Yugormedia" in Zrenjanin, "Hemofarm" in Vrsac, "Banini" in Kikinda, "Jafa" in Crvenkovski, "Carnex" in Vrbas, "Neoplanta" in Novi Sad, "Matros" in Sremska Mitrovica, etc. They are formed: "Panon Bank", "Novosadska Banka", "Vojvodjanska Banka". The Sombor Theatre and the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad were built. A spa was built in Kanjiža and many hospitals and homes of health, among other things, in Sremska Kamenica, Sombor, Subotics, Zrenjanin, Vrsac, Senti and many other cities. Bridges were built over Tisa and Tamis, as well as Sava near Sremska Mitrovica, and only over the Danube were six new bridges built during that period, with Bezdan, Bogojeva, Backa Palanka, Beška, Novi Sada and Kovin. But even then, pressure will not stop to reduce and eliminate the province's autonomy. Thus, only two years after the adoption of the Constitution in 1976, a group of political leaders of Serbia wrote a "Blue Book" that openly attacked the position and status of autonomous provinces. Yugoslav President Josip Broz Tito's firm stance in protecting the autonomy of Vojvodina and Kosovo has prevented further pressures, but after his death in 1980, in the mid-80s, the SANU Memorandum, as a prelude to the bloody crackdown of Yugoslavia, has also fallen heavily into Vojvodina autonomy. Serbia's newly centralised leadership, led by Slobodan Milosevic, began a media campaign against the province's autonomy of Vojvodina and Kosovo in 1988, and in Vojvodina, directed demonstrations and street dissatisfaction with its status began. The peak of violent protests organised by Serbia's new nationalist political summit in Novi Sad, as the capital of Vojvodina, took place on 6 October 1988 when the province's leadership, under severe pressure from street gatherings, resigned. Earlier, the new leader of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, accused them with separatism. The media campaign against replaced leadership continued in the months that followed and focused on preparing the public for the final abolition of the autonomous rights of Vojvodina. Radical personnel changes, as they were called, as well as breaking up with autonomous policy, have led to key positions in Vojvodina's most conservative centralist policy advocates. The new provincial personnel, as well as the cosmopolitan duchy media, became the most bitter promoters of nationalist politics and daily hate speech overnight. On the street, the reality produced was to be implanted into the widest layers of the population. After October's violent shift of the province's leadership, constitutional changes and the practical abolition of Vojvodina's autonomy, everything further was just a formality. The final act took place in March 1989 when amendments to the Serbian Constitution were adopted, with the autonomy of the two provinces reduced to a minimum and essentially ceased to exist. Shortly after the shift of the province's leadership and constitutional changes, one of the most fundamental cleanups in the history of Vojvodina followed. There are no exact data, but it's estimated that during and after so-called. The anti-burocratic revolution in the province replaced about 40,000 political officials, senior state officials, police chiefs, judges, directors of health, cultural, educational, scientific and information centres. About 80% of the management staff were replaced in the economy. Only in the then duchy capital of Novi Sad were the leaders of all five banks, as well as the directors of Post, Railway and Naftagas. Not a single editor of information houses remained in his position, all the editorials were changed, all the until then official languages in the province. Vojvodina's pension funds have been abolished and funds have been transferred to a republican centre. In economic terms, the balance of Vojvodina in the Yugoslav state was negative. It became an integral part of the Kingdom of SHS in 1918 as the most developed South-Slovenian area. By the degree of development, Vojvodina was equal to Slovenia, above Croatia and far more developed than all others. Before Yugoslavia fell apart in 1986, the development of Vojvodina and Slovenia was 1:1.4. After seven decades of Yugoslav development, Vojvodina passed the size of a social product by 40%, but these calculations look great when compared to the balances of Vojvodina in centralist Serbia, after Yugoslavia fell apart in 1991. So, if it is taken in 2000 as a parallel year then every partnership between Slovenia and Vojvodina must be characterized by the province as a complete historical disaster, because the ratio is 8.1. Only a decade 1990-2000 spent in unitary and centralist Serbia as a result of so-called The anti-Birocratic revolution in 1988 raised development, the difference of development between Slovenia and Vojvodina as much as eight times to the damage of the province. Finally, after the break-up of Yugoslavia and the beginning of the 1991 wars, ethnic engineering was joined in Vojvodina, i.e. changing the national structure of the population. The ethnic cleansing of Vojvodina was most pronounced in Srem, and instead of part of its former population, mostly the non-Sprish nationalities that have emigrated, often fuelled by violence, beatings and threats, the Serb population has escaped from Croatia or BiH. Strong centralisation during the 1990s has led to the rapid and fundamental pauperisation of Vojvodina, which has become an undeveloped region of Serbia from one of the developed political territorial entities of the middle-developed socialist Yugoslavia. Following democratic changes in Serbia and the fall of the authoritarian regime in 2000, Vojvodina's position has been fixed to some extent. According to the 2009 Statute, she was entitled to her symbols, coat of arms and flag and increased her powers. However, all this is very far from the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and the right to dispose of its assets and to collect income in its territory in the second Yugoslavia, but also such a minimal step in Serbia has challenged the Constitutional Court's decision in 2012 when the key provisions of the Vojvodina Statute were put out of effect. Perhaps the best nominal, autonomous symbol of the Vojvodina as a centuries-old historical province that originally established its autonomy with the express will of its peoples in 1945 is presented by Article 182. Serbia's 2006 constitution, which states that the AP Vojvodina was created in 2006 and the Constitution and could be abolished according to the current procedure. In 2002, the Autonomous province of Vojvodina won its coat of arms and flag in 2004. According to the new 2014 AP Vojvodina Statute, for which LSV was the only one who did not vote, a term is introduced – traditional symbols. It's about a prank and an attempt to impose double symbols on the AP Duke. First of all, it is necessary to point out that the very expression – traditional symbols, that the very expression – is the traditional symbols unknown in world theory, but also in practice. It is understood that the symbols of an entity, state, city, region also include historical features, as the current symbols of the AP Vojvodina have historical properties. It's particularly controversial and unsustainable dichotomy, the parallelism of symbols that others don't have. It's no coincidence that it only happens in Vojvodina. It's meant to be so-called. The traditional symbols suppress or relativize its existing and legal features. It's a dispute over that and everything. Why are you being so so-called. Traditional symbols impose precisely those symbols that were not institutionally accepted, because the proposed solution is only one of several ad hoc symbols that were used during the revolutionary Serbian movement in 1848-1849, which were never formally adopted or accepted by anyone. The reason he insists on this so-called. The traditional coat of arms, not on another present in 1848-1849, is the fact that it is nothing but the coat of arms of the Serbian Principality used between 1839 and 1882. The only difference is that the description of the coat of arms lists the duke's porphyri and the duke's crown, and in the description of the coat of arms of the Serbian Principality, the prince's office and the prince's crown. So, the 19th-century principality of Serbia became symbols of today's Vojvodina, while they are not at the same time used as traditional symbols of the Republic of Serbia with which they have undeniable historical continuity. There is no doubt that behind this is the intention to undo any authenticity and self-region of the Vojvodina, as well as its historical identity, by that historical forgeries. On the other hand, it is legitimate to ask the question -- why, as traditional symbols, the flag and coat of arms of the Serbian-Tamish Banat, which existed 11 years as the crown of the Austrian Empire, from 1849 to 1860. These symbols, unlike these revolutionary ones, were legal, adopted and for a decade in use, but these actual symbols of the dukery reflected the state in which they were created, so to the proponents of these so-called so-called. The traditional symbols were unsympathic, and they were silenced, in a word – the creators of these farsitic performances acted like every customer in the supermarket, chose what their invention of tradition suits the most, which is forging and mocking the past. Yet the essence of imposing so-called. The traditional symbols with the intention of suppressing and relativating their present features are the idea of changing the concept of Vojvodina. The so-called traditional flag and coat of arms reflects the nineteenth-century concept of Serbian Vojvodina as an ethnic, culturally defined Serbian space, an autonomous unit within the Habsburg monarchy. It is about an idea that was historically exhausted and disappeared for a clear reason because in 1918 it reached its primary goal – the national unification of Serbs. On the other hand, the modern-day AP Vojvodina is the result of the various political forces gathered in the Vojvodina front. In the early 30s 20 centuries, the Vojvodina Autonomist Movement was formed into an ideological political heterogeneous coalition – the Vojvodjani front with a key password – the Vojvodina of Vojvodina and the idea of an autonomous Vojvodina belonging to all its citizens regardless of its national, religious or any other belonging. Although this movement was multinational, the carrier of this concept of autonomous Vojvodina as essentially different from the ethnic nineteenth-century concept of Serbian Vojvodina was primarily liberal Serbian citizenship. The idea set up a framework from which, after World War II was the result of anti-fascist victory and the constitution of the AP Vojvodina. All of the above shows clearly how many questions so-called questions. The coat of arms and flags have an essential, not only symbolic significance, which is why the attempt to deplete the so-called. and traditional symbols, and yet unrecognized from the 19th century, not only anachron and needless but above all, historical and theoretically unfounded. I read all of this to explain the reasons why we proposed a resolution on Vojvodina. Given that it is going to meet the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we believe that this constitution must contain a very clear and precisely defined position of AP Vojvodina, which, as you heard in this exhibition, is a historic province which, with its territory, with its population, with its economy, culture, tradition, entered into the composition of Serbia in 1918 and was marked last year. But already in 1919, the question of what really happened was considered and why, at once, instead of representing the citizens of the people they would choose, those who would be deputies will be sent from Belgrade for the administration of Vojvodina. The issue of the resolution that we are talking about is the question of identifying this Assembly on whether or not this Assembly wants Serbia to be settled in the future as a modern, complex state where no one denies or thinks of denying the inseparability of Vojvodina from Serbia. In that sense, I'm going to show you a document that may be a little bit forgotten, but I like to show it because I haven't shown it in a while, although I think it's quite important. The document has been available since 18 October 2007 and in this document, the Government has answered the parliamentary question in accordance with Article 198(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the question of MP Nikola Žutić... (Vojislav Seselj: Nikola Žutic, the great Serbian historian? That's right, Nikola Žutić. He asked the question – what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia think of taking against anti-Serbian acts of open Separatism of the duchess? That was the question. The answer was – on the basis of knowledge so far, there is no data on the MP's question, the MUP takes the necessary action from its competence relating to the protection of life, rights, freedom and other values, pursuant to Article 5. The Ministry Act and Article 10. The law on police, as well as other positive-legal norms, President Vojislav Kostunica. In other words, it is clear that there is no separatism by LSV or any other organisation in Vojvodina. The Vojvodina cannot be an independent state, it cannot be for the following reasons. First of all, Vojvodina is bordered by nation-based states whose parts of the ethnic Corps live in Vojvodina. Currently, the majority, and this vast majority of the population of Vojvodina, are ethnic Serb nationalities and simply any independence of the Vojvodina in an independent state would mean permanent conflicts and continuous attempts to tear it apart or take over from some of the surrounding states. Given the current state and what Vojvodina looks like now, all I've been reading to you is to understand that the idea of abolishing Vojvodina autonomy has existed for 150 years, and that the idea of 150 years is not working because duchy autonomy is based precisely on those layers of population that are constantly being restored in Vojvodina. In all, the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy is the fundamental issue of democracy in Serbia. The independent state of Vojvodina cannot, I repeat, exist. Vojvodina can only exist as a political community in a complex Republic of Serbia. However, if this fact is avoided, which we are talking about, and if it is constantly going to go for the autonomy of the Vojvodina Valley, to be abolished, to be banned, to be disenfranchised, etc., Vojvodina will cease to exist, but not by miraculously muttering into something it is not. No, it's because you're going to have a situation where a huge number of Vojvodina residents leave it. If she wants to stop the eviction of the people of Vojvodina, now I'm only talking about Vojvodina, then she has to get the ability to decide within her jurisdiction on her territory. That's not the case now. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, against whom LSV, along with LDP, demonstrated in its adoption, clearly states in Article 184. – the financial autonomy of autonomous provinces, as the Constitution provides for the possibility of creating other autonomous provinces, and would be absolutely logical to have Serbia established as a state that also has medium levels of government. This middle level of government is the level, a unit of the size of two million inhabitants that would theoretically be Vojvodina, Shumadi, the Low Area, to express themselves... (Vojislav Seselj: Republika Srpska Krajina, Republika Srpska, Montenegro... ) Would you warn the gentleman to restore material from geography? It's places in other countries. (Vojislav Seselj: It is only temporary. I'm talking about Serbia. So, since it would be practically one form of decentralisation in the middle level of government, it would also bring responsibility and decision-making down to a lower level, making them closer to the citizens and allowing for better control and greater stability of the state as such. All in all, that is why the Constitution 184 states -- the financial autonomy of autonomous provinces, indent 3 - the law determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income, the AP Vojvodina budget, means a tax-listed budget, as the AP Kosovo is mentioned only in the preamble, is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. This was supposed to be governed by the law. Again, the law determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income. This is the constitutional law implementing Serbia's "Official Messenger" No. 98 since 10 November 2006. So, in Article 15. – the general deadline for harmonising the law with the Constitution until 31 December 2008, that was ten years ago, all other laws which do not comply with the Constitution will be harmonised. This means that there will also be a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina so that it can be applied, that the Constitution is fully applicable and implemented. Since this has not been done so far, and there have been attempts on several occasions to do so, it was a situation that in 2012, Mladjan Dinkic, if you remember that minister, promised, since he had jurisdiction and decentralisation, that that year would be passed. Next year, Finance Minister Lazar Krstic makes the same decision and announces that the law will be passed in 2013. Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic in the same hall, some of you were present, said it was no problem to pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina, but that it was a matter of coherent political will, which was not at the time. I am now asking one question - if the province's administration considers this current current one, it is not time for this law to be passed, because the conditions have not been met, then we are in a position to be deeply disrupting the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia by both the province administration and this assembly. It is disrupted, in the same way that every story about the rule of law of the Republic of Serbia has been violated, by the adoption of a lustration law that has been laid down for ten years and has never been applied. Also, by not passing a law on the financing of Vojvodina, on which the province's administration worked there in 2014, 2015, the failure to pass this law is overlooked by the fact that anyone who does not respect that part of the constitutional obligation and the Constitution as the highest legal act can not respect any other member of the Constitution. Like, I don't know, Article 58. - ensure the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. The right of ownership may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, etc. It all says, however, all of it doesn't have to be that way. All of this can be converted, such as the Vojvodian property by the move of bureaucratic feather, turned into state property of the Republic of Serbia, although Vojvodina was as a socio-political community, a legal entity that could literally raise loans from which highways were built and return them from its original assets. So here we're not just talking about the AP Vojvodina or the Funding Act, we're talking about the future state arrangement, we're talking about the future constitution of the state, we're talking about whether Serbia really wants, I'm sorry that Mr. Orlic isn't here, because right now I wanted to ask him a question, what does he think of it as the chairman of the board of directors, as it is seen, I know that since I'm in the Committee on European Integration, how they look at us when we don't respect our own constitution for ten years? How can we defend Chapters 23 and 24 when we are constantly under our own Constitution, against whom I will repeat, because I personally opposed, personally organised a campaign not to pass the referendum and did not pass in Vojvodina. Therefore, this Funding Act is in line with this Constitution, although the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considered in its report of 19 March 2019, that the motion for a resolution was not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The motion for a resolution is out of the question. When We Asked a Question – Why? counterpart Lazic asked for it to be clarified against the constitution, then the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, Djorđe Komlenski, was appointed an MP for the Committee's meeting. Neither he nor his deputy, Gordana Comic, are present at this session, which clearly shows the relationship to this issue. If we're going to realize that we're just talking about things that are day-to-day political character, then this tall home has lost its primary purpose, which is that people talk, exchange ideas and do what's best for the country and for the generations to come. For this law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, I'll just give you a few arguments, since there's a united debate about it. Then I would ask a representative of the Government to explain to me why this bill is not supported or why the amendments have not been intervened on this bill or why it has not been rejected and another draft law has been passed when it is a constitutional obligation that has been in place for ten years? Come on, the previous authorities weren't right, the previous governments were irresponsible, but then I can claim with full right that this government is irresponsible, that it isn't working enough to bring its behavior into line with the Constitution. All in all, in the draft law on the financing of a member, let's not torture you too much, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that three weeks of the APV budget or 42.8% must focus on capital expenditure. The problem is that in order to focus three weeks of Vojvodina's budget on capital expenditures, first they have to exist, and when it's known that from, say, 74 billion dinars of budgets for this year, 44 are transfer funds, transfer funds that just go through the budget and have to be paid to end-users within one day, there are only 30 billion left. When I say only 30 billion is not enough for all of this. That's about 160m euros this year. Belgrade City's budget is one billion euros for this year. I'm just drawing attention to people living outside Belgrade, and if this is how the Republic of Serbia, its government and its top representatives, and that's who you are sitting here, then we're going to be in a position to be responsible for Serbia's dissipation and not to remain on two plums, but in the new and old Belgrade and to end the whole story. There's a colleague here from Nis, there's a colleague from other cities here, and there are people who understand what I'm saying about how centralization and the absence of decision-making has contributed to simply killing every initiative, and that it's only working on how to get as close as possible to some kind of budget financing, i.e. A hand from Belgrade that throws crumbs at Serbia. We've come into a situation, let's say, we have an SRS which is a major opponent of Vojvodina's autonomy and thinks Vojvodina's autonomy should be abolished absolutely. But there's still nothing in the way of the Duke's institutions, and they're going to the Duke's election, sitting in the Duke's Assembly... Vojislav Seselj, throws. Don't lie. All in all, however, the point is that if there is no decentralisation in the country, and I have shown you that if a historical province, such as Vojvodina, can be broken down and destroyed like this, if the historical space that has shown that with a little freedom of economic and political can prosper, then we question why other spaces can't do so, why can't the Shumadi, why can't Nis, why can't we live in a country where we can't take over every part of our responsibility for that part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia where we live and act, and the middle level of government allows political influence. Local authorities, those who say it can be done through local institutions in terms of municipalities, cities etc., do not know or do not know or lie that it is possible. It can't be because the local government is dealing with municipal problems, politics can't be run at the municipal level. But politics at the middle level of government can and should be guided in terms of protecting the interests of this particular region, and the province, the province of Shumadia, the province whose administrative centre would be Nis, the capital of Belgrade, the autonomous area of Sandzak, the Raška area, whatever you want to call, if everyone was responsible for what happens in the area where they live, then the accounts would be much cleaner, and love much longer. That's exactly why I'm gonna end this. Just another member of the law to read. The revenue of the AP Vojvodina budget, that is, Article 6, is all the revenue collected in the territory of the AP Vojvodina made by the mandatory payments of taxpayers, legal and natural persons using a particular public good or public service, as well as other revenue generated by the beneficiaries of the budget. ‘Excludingly from Article 1's position, the revenue of the AP Vojvodina budget is not considered to be: 70% of the revenue generated from value added tax, 70% of the revenue obtained from excise duties, contributions and other income from compulsory social insurance organisations, revenues that are in accordance with the law of income of local self-government, taxes on international trade, transactions, fees, penalties and other revenues incurred by the state authorities or organisations in the pursuit of public service and in the use of public funds, fees for the use of the state road. “ So I read this to you for the following – if this were the wish list of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, it would say here that everything belongs to the citizens of Vojvodina. No, this is one balanced, long-term number of years by various people written, written and thought-out proposal, moderate, sensible, which absolutely gives Serbia a chance to get out of an irregular and anti-constitutional position in which it is presently in relation to the AP Vojvodina and to start developing as an orderly state according to the highest European middle level of government standards that would allow both Kragujevac and Nis and Novi Pazar to begin to function... (Vojislav Seselj: Knin. Knin? (Vojislav Seselj: Knin, yes. Is that in Holland, where? (Vojislav Seselj: No, it is Western Serbia. I'm sorry. Either way, start working properly. In order for that to happen, there's something to start. That start may be, if you are prepared to do so, the moment it is brought into line with the Constitution of the state in this country and this law is voted upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52375	Thank you very much. First reports from the board of directors do they want a word? The word is Alexandra Tomic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52376	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, at the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Expension Control, we had a topic – the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. We've seen it from both political and administrative aspects. We did not want to fall into a trap, when we talk about a political aspect, to discuss whether the interests of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are greater, better and stronger than the arguments that citizens from other parts of Serbia would give, and that is why we simply did not want to discuss it, or to discuss whether the Shumadi, the environment, whether local self-government or some other part of the geographical, with certain elements and forms of some independent statehood, should have a larger primate or greater debate in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the rights and obligations of all Serbian citizens are equal, apply to all the same, and that we will discuss how administratively we will view the budget of the Republic of Serbia and what the requirements of the AP Vojvodina are is exactly what we wanted to talk about. We talked about how you can't take a knife and cut the budget and say, you know, 30% of the budget or 20% of the taxi or 30% of the income, because there's a lot more complex than we can look at. They are complex in that part when we say what is the first basis to be taken for revenue that would be an integral part of, say, the Autonomous Province budget, they are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the basis counts at the level of Serbia as a whole. Secondly, the issue of these transfers that we're talking about, we have a part that applies to employees, as you said, 74.4 billion dinars is the 2019 budget for AP Vojvodina and what makes it worth saying that it is 13 billion more than in 2016, and 1.34 billion more than in the previous year. Therefore, as far as the government of the AP Vojvodina worked until 2012 and made problems, as regards the availability of a budget of two billion dinars for two million citizens living there, for so many Serbian citizens, they had to simply cover many of the costs that came up as problems of irresponsiblely-led Pajtic policy, and in that I think you have contributed greatly to keeping quiet about how poorly-leaded the AP Vojvodina's financial policy in general. Partial resolution and redistribution of finance into so-called decentralisation of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is simply not acceptable. I will remind you that it is safe for the Autonomous provinces to have larger transfers, to have higher incomes, but do not forget that you have made the proposal that the Tax Administration should also separate itself from the Tax Administration and become completely separate, that the PIO Fund should be singled out from the PIO Fund that is at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, that many things in this part are totally unacceptable, but on the other hand, investments that we are talking about, which are at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, such as the construction of the fast lines of the Belgrade-Budapest route, such as the construction of the "Turkish Stream" pipeline, will mostly go through the AP Vojvodina, where we think that certain fees, of which will surely be part of the transfer towards local self-government and according to the EU itself, will give much more than 7% which are defined by the Republic of Serbia. The Committee's decision was that the funding issue cannot be resolved in part, it cannot be independent of the issue of the division of the powers of all levels of government in the Republic of Serbia, that it must be part of the planned, general reforms of the fiscal budgetary system throughout the country and that we cannot suspend the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, the Tax System Act, the laws relating to taxes and the added value and revenues, as well as the laws relating to public property charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52377	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52378	Thank you for this clarification, but I'd just like to remind you of a few facts. First, you mentioned decentralisation, you mentioned Shumadi, if I heard correctly, counties, etc. Not even the Shumadi, unfortunately for me, has been mentioned, nor is the surrounding of the Constitution. The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina is, and it is taxing when the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina must be passed. So, you're talking to me about the Budget Law, and you're justifying that you're breaking the Constitution, which is above every law, and that's how you convince me that what we're doing, which is supposed to be your job, to do all that, because if you're telling me how bad the government of Bojan Pitiæ was, believe me, with all due respect, I know a few things better than you do. So, I know how bad that was, and that's exactly why we've been complaining so much about it, but it's another topic. We are now talking about the constitutional category of Vojvodina and its financing law being treated as something that interferes with the Budget Law. Instead of looking the other way, it has to be brought into line with the Constitution first, and then talk about the budget. Of course, here is mentioned the Tax Administration in Vojvodina, Vojvodina had its Tax Administration, and then you'd have a much simpler reckoning if there were funds in the Vojvodina territory, and then paid off in the common register. Instead of having a situation where you, perhaps by accident, and I was convinced by accident, I said the following - that they would then return from the budget, that they would return from the central level much more than 7%. Did I understand you correctly? Maybe not. I mean, it's not the point of coming back, it's not to take it away. That's the essential thing. It's not the point of coming back, the point is that it stays where it's earned, because if it doesn't stay where it's earned, but it's coming back, then we're going to be in a position to ask the question of where it's coming back. And this disstimulates entrepreneurship at local and regional level, and favours slyism towards central authorities. So, you literally tend to be such a politician, and you punish those who earn income, and that leads to a series of problems, such as, moving the population, such as literally emptying whole parts of Serbia, which can't rely on anything else, except hope that they'll find a system somewhere else, where they can manage. This way, Serbia will literally come to mind, look, look, I came from Novi Sad this morning, from Novi Sad to the National Assembly, you now have wherever you look and any moment of the highway, left or right, you will see that something is being built. Because it's Corridor 10, the traffic station, there'll be lives. But what's going to be done out of it? What happens to all the other places? What happens to those who aren't here? And Serbia is not just a series of gas stations and fast food restaurants along the highway. Serbia is much wider than that. What are we going to do with Kickinda, with Zrenjanin, with Somboro, what are we going to do with Kragujevac, with Valjev? What we're going to do with all these places where people can't get any answers to what's going to happen to them, no results that will valorize their work with an improved general standard. How do you think that out of 160m euros in Vojvodina, where a third of people drink water that is not for human use from arsenic and everything else, where in Panchev, you should not go further, go to Panchevo, which it had while autonomy was three times the GDP of the entire economy of Montenegro. You, go there, you'll see as soon as you're off the main street, every other street or kaldrma or there's no Polish road at all. In Pancevo, which was a Serbian Kuwaiti, not to mention, that in the meantime, the sale of Vojvodina property is huge, I'm not talking about this government right now, but I'm talking about the sale of the Duke's Oilagas, which was made in the 1970s, because the oil industry of Serbia, is nothing more than Vojvodina's "Naftagas" plus the Kruševac oil factory, it's NIS. And then it's sold. So, extracting complete infrastructure, not allowing it to and what little is left, to have it, you will be in a position to once-rich Vojvodina, practically, except for Novi Sad, where it is built because, as far as I can see, there is a great interest in the people of Republika Srpska, to buy some real estate, since they are not with all the happy development of the situation in BiH, as far as the functioning of that neighbouring country is concerned. It's just that's all that's left. As long as there was autonomy, every police officer in Vojvodina had a 40% higher salary than his colleague under Sava and Danube. That's not possible, of course, but why can't we at least increase the number of people who will care about security, given the growth in the crime rate, by allowing, say, the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina to pay for an increase in the number of police officers, if needed, say. What about health care? Why is the duchy health care, which, or the duchy PIO Fund, has always been much better organized or better operated than the Fund in the Republic of Serbia, why should it not let something work better, if it seems locally, in terms of the territory of the Autonomous Province, rather than centralizing everything? We are the only two things that we have managed to do and that still exist are "Vojvod's Forests", and "Vojvodine Water". "Vojvod's Forest" is owned with eight times less surfaces under the forests of the "Serbian Forest", with eight times less, while, just a few years ago, making twice as much income with sustainable development. Why don't you ask yourself how it's possible? It's exactly the kind of thing that makes me think there's a serious misunderstanding in priorities. The Constitution is the highest legal act. This, the Assembly is the most legislative body, and it mix it with that it's complicated, that something is going to happen, or this or that. Well, it's already happening, because we won't be able to open Chapter 23.24, and then shut them down in case we don't have a legal state where at least the state will stick to its own Constitution. I don't want to go to lower levels at all. It is therefore important that this law, if necessary, I repeat, if this law is wrong, I have no objection, let the Government bring it, let the Government propose it, let the ruling majority, let the ruling majority intervene with the amendments, let anything be done, but for more than 10 years nothing has happened. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52379	Thank you. Replica. Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52380	Thank you. In order not to remain unarranged when I talk about a return, I was talking about a return on investment, I do not believe that the AP Vojvodina, there are 943m euros to invest in part of the Belgrade railway -- Budapest. So, guarantees for such infrastructure projects are provided by the Republic of Serbia, I don't believe the AP has enough resources to give guarantees for building, say, part of the practical gasification of the Turkish Stream project. So we don't believe in this way at all on this concept that we can discuss the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. That's why we thought on the board itself, that working groups and the Ministry of Finance, and the competent secretariats of the AP Vojvodina, should really find a way because the idea is yours to have bigger transfers, bigger donations, bigger investments. And don't forget, the opening of every factory in the territory of the AP Vojvodina went through the subsidies of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Serbia. So, this regional development, this support to the AP Vojvodina by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is much more important than what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is also a constitutional category. So, we're not going to get into a situation where by adopting laws like this that were on your proposal, we come to the point of destroying all constitutional categories. What we have left here after 10 years of talking about this topic which we, as a congregation majority, have opened this topic in public and indeed, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic had enough hearing to put this topic on the agenda, we should talk about it, but in this way, it is really unacceptable, not only for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also for us and the SNS, which leads this responsible state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52381	Do you want the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52382	I'll just say a few words to ask you to explain to me, why do you mention the railroad when it's government business? Why do you mention all the other things that are government business? Why are you talking about investment when you're in charge of local self-government? Secondly, I didn't even talk about transfers here, if you looked closely, not the point of the transfer, we were interested in something completely different to the possibility that what is earned, to a sufficient extent, remains where it is earned, that the tax is charged, not in the place where the company is registered, but where the income is realised, because in such a case, it doesn't matter, but in conditions where all companies are registered, where the smallest taxes or where they have the best political ties, then suffers from it, everything is not Belgrade. It's a notorious fact. I repeat, if you think you've convinced me by saying that it would violate other constitutional categories, well, I was the first one against this constitution, because it's freakish, and the people you're sitting with voted for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52383	Next speaker, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52384	Seselj Dr. Vojislav, right, Canak? Do you have any doubts about regularity? Nenad Canak: No. Previously known to the law enforcement authorities. ) To the authorities of prosecution and imprisonment. I've done some of the things you've done in the last few days, almost 40 years ago in prison for plagiarism. I discovered the Secretary of the City Committee of the Alliance of Communists Sarajevo, plagiarism in Master's work. Yeah. Now, since I've discovered plagiarism with you, we'll either go to jail or you go to jail. One thing, first of all, surprises me here, and I'm not surprised, actually, I'm not very surprised, that this was put on the agenda at all today. There have been so many other smarter legal projects that opposition MPs have submitted to the National Assembly for the past few years, so you have rejected it with automation. I'm worried that this is now a situation where there's a great uncertainty about the future of KiM, is there going to be a negotiating process, will someone on the side be violently cutting the whole thing or what's already going to happen? But, well, it's on the agenda, so it needs to be rocked. However, I was surprised by Nenad Canak. He also seemed to me as such a eloquent man, so that he was unable to write a legal project himself and submit it to the National Assembly, like the one he submitted on February 20, 2019. He took from letter to letter, prescribed the legislative project of MP Aleksandra Jerkov from 13 December 2016, from word to word. She filed this in front of the DS. Don't mess with us with DS now, Canak. You planted their chicken egg on us, and now we need to lock it in here so it doesn't come out of it. Are you perhaps in a coalition with the DS? With DS? I know who you're in the coalition with, but you have no idea who I'm in the coalition with. Let's get this straight, then. I know exactly who you're with, but we're not going to change the subject of this conversation right now. I've got to tear this thing apart. This is literally people, look, look in the service. This was submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov as DS Vice-President in December 2016, and this is Nenad Canak from her two colleagues, MP Olena Papuga and MP Nada Lazic, submitted on 20 February this year. Can you do that? Can this also happen in a parliamentary democracy? He can stay with us. We can do that. There's nothing we can do about it. We can also have Rasim Ljajic as vice-president of the government, regardless of what's up to the throat in crime, but it's not well applied. So, ladies and gentlemen, can this be debated here at all? Or should we tell Mr. Chank that he's writing a new legal project. Now I'm asked a question, and who wrote him an explanation, because we're not used to Canak reading our explanation. Right? He was capable enough to speak out of his head and sometimes too much. Sometimes, according to my estimates of subjective, other people have other grades, but today he reads the report as at the 7th Congress of Comets, whether he reads it or not. (Marian Risticevic: Or Dresden.) Let you go, Dresden. That's where the briefs were, Marianne. I'm stuck in this chair, and I'm in a hurry to watch the release of the verdict to Radovan Karadzic, but here's what I've been waiting to say. Now, who's the real creator of this text? We all know Alexandra Jerkov. So again, it's chirping in the Assembly, I'm not going to say a single offensive expression, but it's not she who's smart enough to build this project. Here, Marian's already guessing. You're right, Marianne, that Alexandra Jerkov was once in Canko's party by 2013, and then she left and didn't steal the mandate, like Marinika stole from you. That's something to be appreciated. She left the party fair and square, returned the mandate, and that's it. What do we call people who have acted like Marinika Tepic? You don't want to say? Say it. Nenad Canak: Thieves. Thieves, I agree with you. After that, she left, while paused for three years in political work in the Assembly, she took several training courses at the National Democratic Institute in Washington. These are all operating training, psychological warfare. She was at the International Republican Institute for several trainings. Here comes Canak of laughter. Were you in those trainings, Chanak? No, I'm an officer. You're an officer there. What are you? Major? Are you an instructor? She says it herself on the Google. I was thinking of kidding Marian and turning the Google and finding everything. I hang out with Google every day, what I'm gonna do is I'm an old man not going to a party, I'm not going to a bar, I'm just on the Internet. No, that's what Toma Nikolic called Twitter on the phone, and when his e-mail came in, he told him to come in. Here's what your report, Nenada, on Tom Nikolic, crashed into. She says she's been to several forms of education, seminars and training, the CIA on political engagement. That's what she writes on her Twitter warrant. Turn around well Alexander Jerkov and the first item is that and press - the biography and everything will come out for you. Is that what they want me to ask you? You won't? Okay, just don't use my phone. Now, after so much training, it's been over three years, it comes as the newly-roasted vice president of the DS and submits this project. I'm looking at a little structure of these sentences, and it seems to me like it was translated from an English language, and the lecturer didn't exactly dress it right, and you've fixed it in two places and one word at a time. What am I supposed to make up? Here's what they've corrected, in Article 8, they've corrected the deadlines, and in Article 7, there was an opinion on it, and it says, "Agreement." It was only changed in the entire text of the legal project. Now let's see a little bit of historical how things are going, because I won't have time to look back at everything Chanak was talking about here. First, the Serbian autonomy in Vojvodina was never institutionalised until the communists came to power. There have been various declarations, and the Temisvar Assembly also discussed the need for the establishment of Serbia's Vojvodina, when Serbs moved after the Austrian emperor promised them cultural and educational autonomy. They had this in different intensities from 1690 to the end of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. So, the 1861 Austro-Hungarian settlement failed to break that autonomy they had. When the Hungarian uprising broke out in 1848, Serbs took sides with the Austrian emperor. As a great Serb general of the Catholic faith, because it was then a condition for him to become a general, named Jelačić, who became a Croatian ban, and since the Catholic bishop of Zagreb, did not want to help him, to install him into the title, then the Serbian patriarch Rajačić came to help the Croatian Ban. The Croatian ban, Serb, Catholic, Jelacic, is now headed by the Ban army in the asphyxiation of the Hungarian uprising. Isn't that right, Canak? Yes, it is. Most of the time, it is. ) All Serbs, almost all of them, were commander-in-chief of the Hungarian Army, General Jovan Damnjanic, who fought against the Serbs, until the end he was commander-in-chief of the Hungarian Army and the Russians captured him somewhere near Arada and handed him over to the Austrians as prisoners, and the Austrians hung him. When he was under the gallows, he still acted proudly and dignifiedly, like a Hungarian general. That's why Hungarians still value him, as their hero, Serbs feel differently about him, which is perfectly normal. In 1848, the "Serbian Assembly" of cultural and educational education declared the formation of the Serbian Vojvodina, but none of it was. Warned with variable happiness, volunteers from Serbia, under Stevan Knican, the Chetnik Duke, fought against Hungary, bled on both sides and somewhere at the end of that year, the Austrian emperor accepted a Serbian request and declared "the Duke of Serbia", it was an official name. For the first Serbian duke, he appointed one prominent general, a Serb, a Orthodox, who was in the Austrian Army, and the general died unfortunately the moment he was taught a imperial order after the appointment of the Serbian duke. The Emperor avoided naming a new duke. After a while, he also declared himself the Duke of Serbia, such as the Hungarian king, after the destruction of the Serbian despot, himself as the Serbian king. So that was all and that Serbian Vojvodina was never realized, it remained only in the songs. However, the national charge of the Serbian people was expressed, primarily through the operation of Svetozar Miletic's People's Party. Then, the "Stat" list, read in all Serbian countries, came out in a large circulation, and as Austria was a relatively democratic state, at that time democratic, Serbs were represented both in the Hungarian and Austrian parliament. In 1918, there was no Duke, no one mentioned the Duke. SRS leader Jasa Tomic called the large National Assembly of Serbs, Slovakia, Bunjevac and other Slovenians in Novi Sad, there was... (Nenad Canak: 40 percent of the population. That was 40%, but there was a German half a million then. We've been counting the Germans since the Partisans sent them away. We're not gonna keep counting on statistics. Maybe it was a beast act, to drive away women and children and some to kill, etc. But we can't count them in statistics right now as if they still exist. (Nenad Canak: It was 1918, and they were 1945. ) So there were about half a million and 1918. They were Serbs with other Slovenes in the minority, but they were declaring, they passed a government act and no one opposed it. The Germans lost the war, the Hungarians lost the war, there were several Germans who accepted it and participated in the Assembly, there were several Hungarians, at least one Croat, he was also, there were seven women. So 30 years ago, before women's right to vote was introduced in Yugoslavia, Serbs introduced it into Novi Sad. It was the National Assembly of Slovenia, Banata, Bacakh and Baranja. A day earlier, on November 24th, Srema Assembly in Ruma, near Krkovac, there is now my new central, Canak, to know only, and at night bright, bright, there it is decided to join the whole of Srem directly to the Kingdom of Serbia, Srem did not want, although it belonged to Slavonia as a county within the framework of Hungary, not to join the peoples of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs, but on 24 November, together with Vukovar and Vinkovci. So the whole of Srem joined the Kingdom of Serbia and then joined Bacak, Banat and Baranja. Now, as Canak used to say here, it turns out in 1944 and 1945 that Vojvodina disappeared from Serbia. The Duchess was occupied, but she didn't disappear. The occupation is a temporary state, but not permanent in international public law. No one could bring Vojvodina out of Serbia without an International Conference, which would form new borders. So Banat, Bačka and Baranja stayed in Serbia, Srem remained in Serbia, and then the communists kidnapped Baranja from Serbia, kidnapped Vukovar, kidnapped Vinkovci and some other village of Sremska, declared that Vojvodina is some entity of state legal importance and that it decided to join Serbia. It's all communist directorship, there's no legitimacy. These are revolutionary acts that the law does not recognise. Serbia is divided by the will of communists against the will of the Serbian people. What do we Serbian radicals want? We want to end the autonomy of the Vojvodina. How? We'll invite the people of Vojvodina to come to the referendum and decide. Is that democratic? Today, there are almost 70% of Serbs in Vojvodina. What do they get with the autonomy of the Duke? Instead of one, they get two bureaucracys. One bureaucracy in Belgrade, the other in Novi Sad. We both need to hold out. What does the Hungarians mean by Vojvodina as autonomy? Nothing. Hungarians have four, five municipalities where they are in absolute majority. There are approximately so many that the individual strongest in ethnic terms are not in the absolute majority, but without them power cannot be formed. We, radicals, advocate to strengthen local autonomy, to get local autonomy, municipalities and cities as wide as possible, to have this people directly through their committees solve issues that are of daily importance to them. One state, one state center and what needs to be centralized, it's the military and the police, to be centralised in this way. This is how the people are baffled by the the thesis that the rest of Serbia simply robs Vojvodina. In the 1990s, all Serbian countries are in a difficult crisis. It was a war. We were under sanctions and now compare what Vojvodina was in the 1990s with Slovenia is ridiculous. We as a people were brought before destruction, and it was not Milosevic's fault and his regime, but our external enemies, and the instruments of our external enemies came to power on October 5, 2000, and we saw what the whole of Serbia looked like – as if the typhoon blew everything up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52385	Thank you. You want to answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52386	Here I am without reading, Chanak. If you can do it, you can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52387	Please note that we have ten minutes until the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52388	Please give your word to Mr. Bayatovic, so I'll answer both of you right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52389	Only if Dusan Bajatovic will speak for ten minutes. (Dusan Bajatovic: Can I speak for 12 minutes? Then Nenad Canak will answer after your break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52390	I thank the parliamentary majority for putting the issue of funding the Vojvodina on the agenda, although it will obviously not be successfully resolved today. To make sense, because after the break, it wouldn't make sense, I just want to answer a few things in this region. First of all, I've been proud of the role of the SPS since 1988, whatever anyone interprets. The speech delivered by Mr. Canak here is typical proof that the use of historical facts is undeniable, as Mr. Seselj did. You, in fact, can make a combination of great historical events, the type of the Mayan Assembly, the meetings of the obscenities, the Somborian Assembly, some new and similar things, to make a mix, and now it turns out that we, in fact, need to discuss the future of Vojvodina's autonomy in the past. Vojvodina is part of the Republic of Serbia, and if I have heard anything well today, Mr. Canak, it is from you that you have realized that the separatist projects, the type of "the Duke's Republic", no longer stand a chance not because you won't, but because they can't survive. I remind you that you were very proud to participate in separatist gatherings throughout Europe. And today in your program, it says you're in favour of the Duke's Republic, if you haven't deleted these days. Are these legitimate political ideas? From the historical review we saw that they were, but Pančeva lawyer Duda Boskovic, who founded the autonomic movement in Vojvodina in 1924, had, for the allies, a Croatian peasant party. During the period of Yugoslavia's collapse, these autonomous or autonomous parties also had a similar type of co-operation, not to mention BIA, CIA, MIA and others. Yugoslavia did not fall apart thanks to the will of its people, but to the will of the political elites of the communists. Whatever you want. Part of your interpretation, of course, is that the most important year of Serbia's accession is past the Serbian movement by 1918. Normally, it's the association of Vojvodina to Serbia with the National Assembly's decision. What you mention on July 31st 1945, unfortunately, I have to agree with Chetnik Duke Seselj, who denies all communist acts, but it was part of how the communists observed the organisation of Yugoslavia and exactly that Serbia was a province, Vojvodina was a province, Kosovo was a province, Montenegro was a province. They were all circuit committees, with communists, if you read the history of the Union of Communists, the CAPB. Therefore, it is legally passed on from the People's Liberation Fight and I welcome it, but I cannot agree with you that this is some date that we need to think about, and you yourself mentioned that the first association of Vojvodina after all the Serbs survived, on whose side Serbs stood in Austria, it ruled. He ruled for a while. The real date is 1918. I don't like those who pretend to be the only agents of interest, how you like to use the term, the citizens of Vojvodina. I think the use of our terms and when the statute was written is current, then the Constitutional Court annulled it, when we went into that... And that's what we resented DS, I don't know how you are, you supported Academyman Firu in 2002, when he wrote the basic act of the AP Vojvodina, which would mean the constitution of the AP Vojvodina, and that would mean the Republic and you are now using two terms that produce doubt, even though I, like you, want to be a local patriot, and I personally resent it, produce doubt because you use two terms. One is the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The constitution does not recognise the territory of the AP Vojvodina as some kind of federal unit or as some category in that sense. Next, we kept trying, some circles in Vojvodina not me or the SPS to say that autonomy is based on the rights of citizens and citizens. There is no kind of right of citizens and citizens, residents or voters living in the territory of Vojvodina that we can interpret, that we exercise the right to have some autonomy of the Vojvodina. We can title the autonomy of Vojvodina when we interpret it to some historical events, some cultural things, and it's relatively thin, but it has to rest on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, just at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We who want to promote, and in the SPS programme there is the autonomy of Vojvodina, I don't think it should be abolished, unlike Mr. Seselj, we want activities to improve, if you will, and standards and cultural forms and co-operation with my friends... I often say to Mr Balint – without the minority there is no majority. The Duke knows this co-existence. I even think, even though these models of multiculturalism have failed across Europe, that's what Angela Merkel said in 2007/2008 more, let's see if we can apply interculturalism models, because apparently multiculturalism didn't have enough composing, and we in Vojvodina, and at the time of the war events of these newest ones, we had all sorts of situations that I wouldn't have to compromise on right now. So, I think everyone who advocates, here, including myself under that, to solve the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy, we don't need to use the terms, or the demands that lead to everyone else... Here, fellow MPs, all citizens of Serbia, and we must take care, because Serbia is unique, have doubts about what our real political intentions are. It's good if we gave up, and I don't see it here, although it's not a subject and it's not in the declaration, interestingly, there's no judicial, executive and legislative authority. This and the future revision of the Constitution under the pressure of Europe or non-Europe should be avoided. The judicial, executive and legislative authority must be unique. The military, the police, and even the tax administration, if nothing else, because of the inability to establish a clear methodology for the tax administration, to which as far as the tax is concerned, should remain unique. I'm not saying that in the context of the transfer of jurisdiction... So now I'm not talking about funding. It is not possible to establish at the level of the AP Vojvodina, as you define it as a proposing, I am now not polluting with you personally, but as a proposal of some middle level of government, but it must not endanger what would be imperative by the Republic. There's no need to do that. We can do all of this within the Constitution or the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia and within the framework of the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. One thing I have to admit, although we have been in different configurations of power since 2000, I will not interpret before, at any point this Parliament did not have or at least we from Vojvodina, most of us will be talking here from Vojvodina, we have not had political weight and we have not managed to unite about three things, and these are the three laws – the delegated powers, the property and the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I agree that those who think politically well always know that it is better to close the problem and that is why I welcome this session, even if for now the media has closed this issue, and they have politically opened it when it starts to talk about the new Constitution. It's better to close the political issue and keep it within some legal framework, such as that, than if it were constantly open because the Constitution was guaranteed, and that seems to me to be the last element in which I could support what's written here. We can talk about various and historic things now, I just wanted to say a few more things about, I don't think the citizens have read what you suggested about funding, you know what, we can't have any federal unit, the middle level of government can only be directed at Vojvodina, because for now I don't think it's healthy for us to talk about autonomy in Serbia until it economically strengthens, until we finish the open Serbian national issue, I'm also talking about Republika Srpska. I am also talking about the situation around Kosovo and there is no need for someone in Vojvodina now to have 20, 30 and 40,000 voters who prefer to watch Vienna than Belgrade, now have other views. I guess we'll all fight for Serbia to make it work and, in a successful way, whatever it means, close, circle, protect still an open Serbian national issue. I'm not saying it's not Albanianly open. Yes, it is. Who opened it? It wasn't us. A question has been opened inside Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll see what happens to Macedonia. If this debate is opened and under some potential change within the Constitution, it must continue to provide a unique structure of the Republic of Serbia. When-now, we want to talk about some more things here, I just have to say, it's true that at the time of the anti-Birocratic revolution, 40,000, perhaps the best personnel, were well-trained, but also October 5, whose carrier you were, has replaced even more people in Vojvodina, and I'm not sure that the process was more democratic than the differentiation process. God, we can do that statistic, too. One more thing that might be worth plowing, you're like an experienced politician and I give you that confession, indeed, you've given you numbers that, right now we don't know how much we've been robbing Vojvodina, how much income has now been in dinars, and even that year in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, we can't mix with you, but I can work with something else. Yes, and the grain went away, mostly in Vojvodina, because it was also there, but I have to say something, and Vojvodina lived, and you say it progressed there in the '50s, '60s and '70s, not thanks to the change of the constitutional system, but because Yugoslavia was a market of 22 million people, economically well arranged, regardless of the condition, the agreed economy, and I guess Vojvodina was also benefiting from that. Otherwise, everyone thinks more grain is produced in Vojvodina than in the rest of Serbia. That's not true, there's the Minister of Agriculture. We have years when more grains are physically produced behind the Danube and Sava than in Vojvodina. That farming can no longer be interpreted as simply. The industrial complex, I'm not sure it was that big with Vojvodina, and today, unfortunately, as a consequence of October 5th, not something else, it's not, or that this processing industry was just as destroyed. If I were to join you in yours, as I would say, with local patriotic efforts, I prefer that everything that is privatized goes to Belgrade, but you can't have tax breaks for Sainta, Ada and Kanjija, not because there's most Hungarians, or Alibunar, and you don't have the same for southern Serbia. So we have to have the same criteria, if we had the same economic rights for all the participants, whether they're foreign investors, whether they're domestic or anyone, I'd be so critical of this approach instead of saying now, there can't be two tax systems in Vojvodina, we and now we have the Tax Administration of Novi Sad. It covers, in fact, the whole of Vojvodina, but methodologically, how can you identify who gave the tax? One more thing I can support, freely, but the question is whether economic time in Serbia allows for what it is, is small revenues from local self-government, because what is Serbia's biggest problem, what is the president of this country's biggest problem? It must be entered into the growth theory only when you raise the budget to an appropriate level, then it will easily come to how we have surplus in the country, so we have surplus and general state, before we do homework raising economic activity, before we do enough investment, before we do a lot more stuff and we set up, to say, more valuable and better organized economic society, we may be able to talk about some other things that are worth talking about when it comes to decentralisation. Another request to all, very often we mix the concepts of decentralisation which primarily refers to the question of local self-government and what should be happening at the AP Vojvodina level. Since I promised not to take too much time, I just want to say, we now have Vojvodina in the Republic of Serbia, we will not base the position of Vojvodina on a referendum that will be attended by the majority Serb population, and then the autonomy of Vojvodina will be annulled, at least that's my view unlike Mr. Seselj. I don't think we need such referendums, but we need the constitutional, legal unity of Serbia, which, by no means, is a single legal order. What didn't I like about it? We can't say that the law on the financing of Vojvodina, so it says here if that law on the financing of Vojvodina is contrary to some other laws, this law will apply. It's not a Lex special. All laws must be respected and all equally applied. If in these frameworks, Mr. Canak, without using the term "Vojvodina" without establishing autonomy for the rights of citizens and citizens, since citizens and citizens are all in Serbia, we start to open up issues that reflect in the cultural sphere, in the economic sphere, I apologize, in the economic and cultural sphere, and above all in the economic sphere, then you will probably have more allies in this House. As long as you or, I don't know, some democratic party, since they did it, this way you open up questions about the autonomy of the Vojvodina, you will have if nothing else is due to suspicion, but also the controversial and political and constitutional and historical facts, the problem of finding allies for those who want to solve the problem of Vojvodina's autonomy. Therefore, I am grateful to both you and the parliamentary majority and the president for our opportunity today to talk about the issue of Vojvodina autonomy. Unfortunately, because of the approach we have, this session will not take place, except for messages that will go public with each individual party, and also from you, which I think you are very grateful to the parliamentary majority, people will have something to think about. This topic will not be successful if the angles, promotions and solutions to the issues of autonomy remain on this background on which you have now pictured it. Madam Chairman, I took three minutes more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52391	Thank you. You haven't, you have more, I mean, four minutes, but on my watch is now 14 hours and 7 minutes. I'm setting a regular break, I have to determine, I know you all want to talk about this subject for an hour. So, at 15 o'clock, let's not be formalists, as they say, just in a minute, at 15 o'clock and 10 minutes, we'll continue the debate. I ask Bajatovic to stay and hear the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52392	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, we continue our work. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. (Miss Radeta: Replica. I'm sorry, Mr. Pastor, the replica of the Faith Radeta. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52393	Thank you. Replication to comments, i.e. on the replica of our president, who spoke about the proposal for this law and this resolution. What's left unexplained in the answer and in the replica is... Of course, it is indisputable for anyone who has read this that the law is absolutely against the constitution and that it is not in line with two other system laws and that this law cannot be dealt with in a lex specialis way with any situation, especially when it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The resolution itself is full of historically incorrect data and that was also the case here, but what we didn't get an answer for, and we expect it, is that it was in the first place that this group of MPs were proposing these texts that originally and in the assembly procedure were the proposals of MPs Aleksandra Jerkov? So it's not something she said somewhere on a show or somewhere in public. No, it's in the procedure today and she kept sitting in session and repeated these suggestions and it wasn't on the agenda. Now, so we're asking how did it come to be on the agenda? Does the promoter have the consent of the one whose original proposals are and is it okay to discuss obvious plagiarities in the National Assembly? You know, if there's something inscribed, and from word to word, underneath that you just write a different name, it's called plagiarism, there's no other way to interpret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52394	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Mr. Balint Pastor answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52395	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Canak, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has one cheerleading song that starts with the words "the day has come" and then has two versions, and now everyone depending on the preferences will continue to sing this song in themselves – e, he came and today we are discussing the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There were words about how good it was that an opposition bill came on the agenda and I really want to thank Mrs. Maja Gojkovic for allowing us to discuss one opposition bill. I want to remind the members of this esteemed home that in the past 12 years this has happened or that similar case has only been twice. By 2012, one proposal from any opposition MP had never happened on the agenda, and since 2012, it has happened twice. In 2012, our former colleague, MP Srdjan Mikovic, proposed a bill on additions to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, and in 2015 Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic proposed a Law on Prevention, Diagnostics of Genetic Diseases, Geneticly conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed these opposition proposals. This is the third case in 12 years, and it's certainly good that we're discussing this issue. There are certain problems, of course, and I'd like to point to some facts. This was done by MPs from an opposition parliamentary group talking about plagiarism. It has been said that the draft law on the financing of Vojvodina's plagiarism, but it seems that the opposition parliamentary group is no longer the same as it used to be, because it has not deeply explored the facts of this issue, because it is not about plagiarism, it is about double plagiarism. So it's a double plagiarism. Since the fact that Social Democrats' League MPs proposed the adoption of this Law on the Financing of Vojvodina on 20 February 2019 is the same thing that Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov did earlier on December 13th 2016. There's another fact. I'd like to talk a little bit about it so those MPs who talked about plagiarism can see it's a double plagiarism. In 2015, and that third March, means a year and a half earlier than Aleksandra Jerkov referred to an identical law proposal that we are discussing today, the province's authorities, meaning then the authorities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, established one text, but the text did not come to the meeting of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina because then the president of the District Government, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, changed his mind. This text, which we are discussing, comes from 2015 and originates from the District Government, or the Regional Assembly. The text was then slightly plagiarized by Alexander Jerkov, so she shouldn't be as offended as she is now in the previous days because Nenad Canak plagiarized him. That's not the point. The point is that both Nenad Canak and Aleksandra Jerkov plagiarized a proposal from the province's government in 2015. Now, let's get this straight, there are no plagiarities in the adoption of legal acts, no plagiarisms like there are original scientific works, but the fact that it's not about the independent text of the law, and since there have been memories of previous years, and there have been words about history, 250 years ago, I wanted to draw some attention to some historical facts from the recent past. I certainly support, regardless of these facts, what the League has proposed this law and I certainly support what we can discuss today, although it is evident that this bill will unfortunately not be adopted and we will not be able to put an end to the question of the financing of the AP Vojvodina. So our fight will continue, all those who fight for the respect of the Constitution and for the wider powers of the AP Vojvodina. I fear that this struggle will last at least until the adoption of the new Constitution, and I simply don't think it's realistic that this question in some foreseeable future will be resolved on the basis of this now existing Constitution, but then, we'll see, there may be a miracle. What is essential, we, for 12 years, have been fighting for the adoption of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina for the simple reason that it is a constitutional obligation, as has already been said. In that fight we used to have allies, we used to be lonely in that fight, we used to be punished because we fought consistently for the interests of the AP Vojvodina, but our attitudes didn't change. In these 12 years there have been times when we were part of the ruling majority of different, there have been times when we were in opposition, but our visions regarding the financing of the AP Vojvodina and respect for the Constitution have not been changed. When we talk about the financing of the Vojvodina and the respect of Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia over the past 12 years could be divided into three continents. I'd like to evacuate memories and talk a little bit about the recent past. The first period covers only one year, which is 2009, so ten years ago exactly when the constitutional provision and constitutional obligation regarding the financing of the AP Vojvodina was respected. That one year, for the simple reason that that year, that year, at the end of the previous year, at the end of 2008, the NIS was donated to the Russian Federation, and from these funds, Vojvodina received the amount that belonged to it under the Constitution, meaning 7% and 3/7 of those capital expenditures in the area of the AP Vojvodina. Afterwards, from 2009 until 2013, not a single dinar, nor could it be said that the constitutional obligation regarding the financing of Vojvodina was respected. To remind the public, this is the period when the ruling coalition's headquarters was made up of the Democratic Party. So it is very nice that DS MPs, in particular Aleksandra Jerkov, propose 2016 a law on the financing of Vojvodina, but they had a few years when they could do so and that the work and the government and the Serbian Parliament ended, but simply there was no political courage, there was no political will for it. On the contrary, this is the period from 2009 to 2013 when then the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic spoke of the fact that it is impossible, Mr Canak remembers it for sure, that it is impossible, illogical, abnormal that there are two systems 100 kilometers from each other, that the train from Novi Sad to Belgrade arrives within an hour and that it is abnormal that in those hours we have two systems. So this is the period of the rule of DS and Boris Tadic, when not a word could have been made about the adoption of the Law on the financing of Vojvodina and that the constitutional obligation was respected. There were other actors of the then ruling majority who talked about the construction of the highway and that because of the construction of that highway, we residents of the AP Vojvodina area should be happy and therefore we should be satisfied. There was another classic sentence from the rule of the DS during that period, and that famous magic sentence was always read when we asked to finance any project in the area of the AP Vojvodina, you have an AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, contact that Capital Investment Fund of the province and settle there. So there's no question that any project in the AP Vojvodina area is financed from republican funds, meaning of that 7% and three weeks. Not only was the DS position at that time but something happened in early 2010 that was unrecorded in the history of modern parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately, nothing like this has happened since then. In early 2010, the following happened – SVM MPs voted against the 2010 draft budget in the same home, in the National Assembly. Then unfortunately, we were left alone on that matter. Then, if you remember, the ruling majority numbered only 128 members, it was quite thin, but now that they are not present, I would not like to say thanks to whom the budget was adopted, the budget was absolutely counter-constitutional. After that, SVM was punished in a very inhuman way. He was punished by being suggested that all of our local officials be released in Subotica. In that local self-government, which may be the most important in Serbia for Hungarians, and because it could have been done there because in this local self-government more than 80% of the population are Hungarians, and this is about Sainta, the then president of the municipality, Mr Zoltan Peck, who is today our colleague here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By February 14, 2010, he was president of the Senta municipality and directed by the DS for simple retribution was resolved on 14 February 2010, not because the coalition had not functioned, not because it was not in a fair way acting as president of the Municipality of Sent, but because we did not want to support the budget of the anti-sustained Republic of Serbia for 2010. This was the second period of financing, not the financing of the AP Vojvodina. We have been counting on the third period since 2014, since then, there has been funding in the Republic budget for some important issues, for some important projects for the AP Vojvodina area, and we can agree with the SNS on the financing of important projects in Vojvodina. That's where I'm going to highlight only two projects from Subotica that have been ending for decades. This has been going on for decades because by 2014, even the dinars for it were not from the Republic's register. It's about the adaptation of the National Theatre building in Subotica and Ipsylon Krak, meaning the tour around Subotica. In these four years alone, 28.3 million dinars have been allocated from the republican budget for the two projects. Ipsylon's arm should be finished by the end of this year, and the National Theatre building most likely next year. Ipsylon's arm has been built for 35 years, and this year we'll be in a position to finish the project. It is extremely important not only for the Subotics, but also for the economy of Subotica and beyond our region. I think it's useful to talk about these facts and everything I've said about plagiarists and about these stages, about funding Vojvodina are historical facts, verifiable historical facts and figures, but it's good, as I said that LSV proposed this text and what we're going to talk about today and the next days about this text. Since we have never, nor will we ever vote against the Vojvodina here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we will in voting day certainly support this draft law on the financing of Vojvodina although those who say that this text is precisely what I was talking about, which occurred four years ago, would not be in this form today, because they have passed some laws. If there was a political will to adopt this bill, we would certainly have submitted the amendments, but since it is evident that this law will not be passed, we have not proposed these amendments and have not entered those details, but we will certainly support this bill and hope that we will not be alone. I hope the motionary will vote for his law, too. Maybe there's someone else there. Of course, I think it's a good thing these few days they'll be dedicated to the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52396	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word is Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate on the LSV proposal should, in any case, be based on a decision to be on the agenda and should be serious. After Mr. Pastor's exposure, we're here to attend to a very strange situation. Dr. Vojislav Seselj pointed out the argument concerning the argument and the very proposal put forward by the authorised representative, pointing to the indisputable facts that this is actually a plagiarism that was prescribed by Aleksandra Jerkov. A man can somehow accept that it was done with the intention of putting on the agenda one point like this, but now we are witnessing that in fact Alexandra Jerkov is a plagiarizer. She rewritten, or stole the idea, and hence the text of the proposal from the Vojvodina Assembly, namely the draft proposal of the Vojvodina Assembly, and now she completely accepts some strange outlines mildly spoken. We now need to discuss seriously the concession of part of the income, as requested here, the AP Vojvodina, and in fact the proposer himself is not original in his proposals. If she could possibly attend this session as well as the one proposed in 2016, and she is not the original promoter either. Therefore, according to Article 68, I propose that a committee be formed to determine what is and what is the original text of this proposal, and who is the original promoter that this could be in some way a serious debate? This is how we deal with plagiarisms. Neither Nenad Canak knows what he's proposing, nor does Alexander Jerkov. Now we hear, perhaps it is the original creator of this draft proposal of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, so to ask that we postpone this session, we form a commission to determine who the original promoter is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52398	Thank you, colleague Mircic, thank you for your suggestions. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to request and propose the formation of a survey board, but we do not have the right to form any commission, especially during this session. You can suggest that, no one's defending you, but I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare my injury in voting day? Yeah. ) You have the right to suggest this, make a proposal, you know the procedures, we can't discuss it at this session where we have clearly defined agenda points. You have a procedure by which you can suggest it, so if the National Assembly votes and approves it, then we'll talk about it. Thank you. The word has a proposed authority, Mr. Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52399	I can't believe we've come back from a serious debate like this again. The fact is that if it is so important who is the author of the text of this proposal, first and foremost plagiarism refers to some scientific work or work of art or something like that. This is certainly neither. This text was first promoted on 20 February 2015 at a press conference in the Pokrainian government, where the provincial finance secretary, Mr. Zoran Radoman, then spoke about this text by considering the idea of forming a province tax administration. The text was then then promoted as a coalition-coordinated text of SVM, LSV and DS which then made up the majority in the Regional Parliament. So that's the text. Afterwards, as President of the Executive Council Bojan Pajtic then withdrew the text due to his misunderstandings within the party structure of the DS of that time. And we came to this very usable, consistent and, by the way, I was saying in the introduction that this text went through a lot of hands and that it was balanced and that it wasn't what the list of wishes of LSV, but one balanced text consistent with other political entities. The same text was then proposed by Dr. Alexander, who was not accepted. I did not see any reason why the LSV that was a member of the same coalition that agreed with DS and SVM would not have done what the President of the Executive Council was supposed to do at that time, Dr Bojan, because the province administration did and reached the agreement of all members of the ruling coalition. So, because of the will of the President of the Executive Council at the time, we came, i.e. The province government, I don't know what it was at that moment, we came in a position to make a very useful legal proposal withdrawn. Therefore, I have no intention of discussing any plagiarism, because this proposal belongs to as much DS as SVM and LSV. He proposes it whoever he wanted, and by the way, by the way, a colleague of Olena Papuga talked to Alexander Jerkov on the subject and got her consent. So, these are all absolute stories that serve only to distract attention from the essence of the story, and the story is not about Vojvodina, but the story of respecting the Constitution and constitutional law that insists that this law, hence, be passed by 31 December 2008, and is now 20 March 2019. That's what this part is about right now. About this, about the Vojvodina resolution, it's something else. I'd take the opportunity to take my word for it, say a few words to Mr. Bajatovic since he brought up a few things I'd have to remind him of. First, the question of the territory you mentioned, the population, etc. and the constitutional framework, Mr. Bajatovic, is defined by Article 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia -- state authority is limited to citizens' rights to province autonomy and local self-government. So, I will repeat, the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to the province's self-government. The right of citizens to province autonomy and local self-government is subject only to supervision of constitutionality and legality. That's the first thing. Second thing, Article 182. - Autonomous provinces are autonomous, territorial communities established by the Constitution in which citizens exercise the right to province autonomy. So, territorial communities. Since it is a territorial community, and Vojvodina is so, because it is taxingly listed in the Constitution, your remarks that territory when mentioned in this, in resolution and in law, is not a constitutional or unconstitutional category, but rather the opposite. The whole story here is that we're talking about what needs to be done to bring the Duke's position into line with the Constitution, not to get out of it. So we don't need to defend the Constitution from those of us who attacked him while there were times from you who adopted him at that time, believing that he wouldn't know what he was accomplishing. At the end of the line, if I remember correctly, at that point, the main advantage of this constitution was that it would be easier to change. Unfortunately, that's not how it turned out. Secondly, you have bound the Vojvodina, its prosperity in the 1970s to the market of 22 million people, if I understand your exposure well. But let us not forget that the EU has 800 million people and, of course, the market is far more powerful. But in order to go towards the EU at all, it must be remembered that the issue of the rule of law is one of the most fundamental issues the EU is asking. There, counterpart Orlic can confirm that any EU accession talks mention the rule of law issue. So, a country based on respect for its rights. A state that has been disobeying its own constitution for ten years in the domain of adopting the Law on the financing of Vojvodina has always had a stone in its shoe that brings it to a position to have a problem. In that sense, I say that for Vojvodina and all of Serbia it is extremely important that this law be passed or that the Constitution be changed, so that it does not apply, but something must be done. One more thing. You mentioned that Novi Sad has a tax administration. It's just a tax unit in Novi Sad. He doesn't have a tax office. That's a very important difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52400	Thank you, Mr. Canak. Right on line, Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52401	Thank you for the opportunity to respond, Mr. Canak. I'm going back to what I told you, when you, even you, read the Serbian Constitution or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that's it. But the way you use it, I will remind you, when the proposal for the Statute of the Republic of Vojvodina was made, began the text - based on the rights of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. He can't. From the texts you have, we later repaired the Constitution of Serbia, it was the first amendment to the SPS. That's why I'm trying to warn you. The way in which you in your acts, which is in your program, mention the territory of Vojvodina, it's some federal unit in Serbia, so it turns out. Furthermore, if you respect the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court gives its opinion, so may the DSS have submitted a proposal, and it is obvious that your proposals in paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 have already been evaluated by the Constitutional Court and you, which has been passing through for years, are again proposed to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I assume that a large number of MPs, even from Vojvodina, have read the opinion of the Constitutional Court, because we do not have another instance that can interpret this except the Constitutional Court. You again to us, here, I'm the same for autonomy, you give us again the text that the Constitutional Court rated as anti-constitutional and we need to decide again. Today's session I took very well-intentioned politically, and that's why I said it was a good thing that the assembly majority supported it, that the issue that hangs somewhere in the air, even though the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is open, and it will be more important. Potential amendments to the constitution will certainly be an important issue, but when it comes to the agenda, we are sure to be asked what to do with Republika Srpska, Resolution 1244, the Dayton Agreement, other domestic tasks. So, what I'm saying to you is, it's not the idea to be a patriot, it's not the idea to create a middle level of government, it's not the idea to preserve the autonomy of the Vojvodina, even if we were historically different... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Just one second, the idea is that you're doing it the wrong way. You others, who want to achieve our goals slightly differently, are taking up the opportunity of a kind of initiative that is opposite, at least according to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it has been repeated for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52402	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. Mr. Nenad Canak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52403	I'd just like to ask, Mr. Bayatovic, if you could tell me where you found it - starting with law, etc.? Now I'm looking at these documents that we're talking about, the Vojvodina resolution, the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, where did you read that? Where did you read it? (Dusan Bajatovic: When you proposed. Where did you read it? (Dusan Bajatovic: You have a gene of using the same things, like... ) Dear Mr. Bajatovic, we're not talking about genes here, we're not talking about the LSDV programme, we're talking about two very specific documents. (Dusan Bajatovic: If you continue to do so, you will have two, three votes in the Vojvodina Assembly. I really just want to show that it is a matter of goodwill and intent in these documents that you are presented with. (Dusan Bajatovic: Why? You have a good will, and we don't? ) Dear Mr. Bayatovic, please read these documents, and then let me talk to you, please. (Dusan Bajatovic: I read and underline everything. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52404	Thank you, Mr. Canak. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52405	I'm trying as vice president to help you, however, to draw attention that we should all be prepared for this session. Obviously, there is a misunderstanding or misunderstanding of what Mr. Bajatovic says and by the proponents of this act. The fact is, and I suppose you meant to say that, Mr. Bayatovic, that in 2012, the Constitutional Court annulled, or put out of force, the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina as provided for in the Statute. That's enough reason why a law like this can't even be put on the agenda. You know, we can't now, we have a constitution, so someone brings something unconstitutional, so then the Constitutional Court says it's unconstitutional and we insist -- well, now we will again. So, that's only one reason, that in 2012, the Constitutional Court put out of force the provisions of the Statute of the Republic of Vojvodina, where the funding of jurisdiction was prescribed. When we talk about this proposal, it is impossible, in the way it is proposed in this law, even if we do not have this interference by the Constitutional Court's decision, how is it possible, let's say, that VAT is calculated at the level of the AP Vojvodina? Well, whoever went to high school knows that's not possible. You know, even in states that have a federal organization, VAT can't be counted based on one of them, any units, so it can't be on the part of the AP Vojvodina, it can only be on the level of Serbia as a whole. I just wanted to do this a little bit more to focus on further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52406	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52407	I thank you, Chairman. Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Given that a kind of interpretation is given even by the Constitution, which is legally inadmissible, and in any case inappropriate for this session, I had to react with one question and determination. Mr. Canak refers to Article 182. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and says that in that position of Article 1 82, you mentioned 182, and that is true, that autonomous provinces are an autonomous territorial community, Mr Canak. Not 184, but 182, to be clear. Now, given that you say "territory", territory as a term, and especially a constitutional provision, it's very complex and broad. The territorial community and territory are not the same. If you had listed anywhere in the proposal, any law, any resolution, if you had stated that it was territory within the administrative borders or in any way determined closer territory, then that would have been understandable. This is how you bring us into a kind of risk, the risk of commenting on something that we are explicitly against, and we will be against, and that is translated into a simple, simple language. You say territory, no determination, which, how much and where. If the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it is restricted by administrative borders. If the territory is any local self-government, there are also administrative boundaries. What territory are you talking about? Next, you forget he's in Article 1 of that same Constitution, so if you don't know, how are we going to know? (Nenad Canak: That's what Bajatovic said, it wasn't me. That's not true, you're wrong, Mr. Chanak. Bajatovic was very specific and gave you one criticism which, in my opinion, is extremely justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52408	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52409	I'm sorry, just one more sentence. Which is why you don't determine yourself properly, that's your problem again. In Article 1 The constitution, and that's the last thing I'm going to say, is the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens, and that's the starting point that's attached to what you need to bear in mind when you explain both the resolution and the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52410	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Nenad Canak has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52411	The basic misunderstanding, as far as I can see, is that Mr. Bajatovic commented on some previous documents, not these concrete documents, because here neither in the draft law on funding nor in the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina there is no word: "terrory", it is nowhere. It's something else entirely. The Statute declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court has been amended. After the change of the Statute, this proposal was made, as I said, which was promoted on 20 February 2015 in the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina and it has nothing to do with each other. That's exactly what this is about. So here we are now moving away from the basic idea that we had when we proposed this. So, let's use a harmonised and balanced document that I was talking about, to get out of the unconstitutional state created by the law on the financing of Vojvodina, which had to be passed by 31 December 2008. That's all I'm talking about. The territory was first mentioned by Mr. Bajatovic, I will repeat, alluding to some previous documents, probably the statute that was declared unconstitutional, and in the same Assembly in 2014 there was agreement on the new statute. In that sense, I think there's a clear misunderstanding here, because I don't see where in these documents, I ask you to show me where there's anything in these documents that you think is wrong in that sense and to mention some territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52412	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52413	With regard to the questions that have been asked me, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a question concerning the rule of law, as a topic that we have when we meet our friends and partners from the European Union, and in the context of what is suggested in this matter, the position of Vojvodina. So, rule of law and law. This isn't the first time this thing's been mentioned. It seems to me that in the first part of the session I was also asked the question, only then was I not able to answer it. The rule of law, the question of chapters 23 and 24, and here, I quote the question – how are we going to Europe and what about chapters 23 and 24, if we don't respect our own Constitution? Is that what happened? So, first of all, the rule of law as a topic, yes, we know it is a very broad context, but the issue of the Duke through the rule of law is not a subject, it was never a topic, nor do I expect it to be a topic in our talks with representatives of the European Parliament or anyone else who comes from that side. The question of the Constitution, when we talk to them, concerns exclusively the way judges and prosecutors choose. This is the topic that we expect and which is very well known and which is very well known to them, but also to everyone else in an adequate way, through the positive opinion we received from the Venice Commission, on a proposal that has otherwise arrived at the National Assembly. So it's nothing controversial. Chapters 23 and 24, that may have been a lapus, but we opened it. How are we gonna lock them up? It's definitely gonna be a job. But the context of European integration that was launched at this session I also found through the introduction into the resolution that was proposed. That's what I think is bad. So, the issue of European integration concerns Vojvodina as well as any other part of Serbia, but I have seen it and I want to comment on it now, as we are talking about Europe. This cannot, Mr. Canak, be guided by the intention of leading a peaceful foreign policy, because it is thus suggested that Serbia does not have such a policy, and it does. The question is how will we be respected in Europe if we do not respect ourselves and respect us much more than ever before, precisely because we are able to respect ourselves, and we clearly show it because we are leading our, Serbian policy and because we are successful in European integration. So these aren't the only chapters we've opened. These openings could not be praised by the majority who took care of the Vojvodina we talked about today until 2016. The majority left more than nine billion dinars, which has been successfully refinanced, and this has to do with European integration. The majority could not achieve the 75 billion dinar budget today in Vojvodina, which is also a success today. That majority, it didn't bring in those, I think, more than 300 million investments that we have in Vojvodina today. All of these are good things that should be motives, those, not some questions about foreign policy, which are not really there. They should be a motive for us to deal with both European integration and development of Serbia, Vojvodina, or any other part. This type of success is the direct consequence of the good policy that we have today, which is established by Alexander Vukic, and that should be a good and healthy motive, both in this discussion or in any other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52414	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Nenad Chanak. Here you go, Comrade Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52415	I, what you said completely understand, but I would ask you to understand what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about debts, about this, about what was left behind, what was found, etc. If we want to talk about it, I can ask, too, why did the previous government leave this issue open when we insisted on shutting it down, right, where my colleague Balint could testify to me? The question is, therefore, if 10 years have expired for the adoption of a law that is constitutional obligation, constitutional law, and we haven't done so, I'm just asking why didn't this assembly majority propose this law, the province government proposed this law, why wasn't this law that we proposed corrected, or broken, or adapted to amendments? Why didn't the government give the law? Why didn't something happen? So we're not talking about Vojvodina as such, we're talking about the law on the financing of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, which was supposed to be brought more than 10 years ago. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. (Alexander Martinovic: Where does that say?) I've only got one moment here with a lot of paper, here's the law on the implementation of the Constitution, but in any case it says in the Law on the implementation of the Constitution on deadlines. Here, just until I find it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52416	Yeah, yeah. No problem. Dr. Crescent. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52417	What article does it say? (Nenad Canak: Constitutional Law, in Article 15) Constitutional law, Article 15. - by 31 December 2008, all other laws which do not comply with the Constitution will be harmonised. Where you found in this formulation that by 31 December 2008 a law bearing the title was to be passed – a law on the financing of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. It doesn't say anything. For your information, Mr. Canak, and in order for Serbian citizens to know, including citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, there are two laws that regulate the financing of the AP Vojvodina One is the Law on the Budgetary System, which was passed in 2009, at the time of that authority that you supported, and the second is the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which defines which revenues belong to the AP Vojvodina budget. Among other things, it has been found that the AP Vojvodina budget is part of the income tax on citizens' income, a profit tax of 18% of the amount achieved on its territory and part of the income tax on legal persons' profits of 42.7% of the amount achieved on its territory. In addition, the AP Vojvodina budget also includes transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget and transfers for entrusted transactions, dedicated transfers, dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the Law on the financing of local self-government, as well as dedicated capital transfers for projects established by the government. Why did I say this? Because I want Serbian citizens to know that Mr. Canak is wrong when he says we have a problem with our European integration because we do not respect our own constitution. There are, therefore, two laws that regulate the financing of the AP Vojvodina. The law doesn't have to be called the law on the financing of AP Vojvodina to regulate that matter. So, that matter is already regulated by two laws, and we are also our Constitution, and the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, as regards the financing of the AP Vojvodina, has been implemented to the end. So, that part of your argument, Mr. Canak, is not standing, and when I get my word that I speak as an authorised representative of the SNS, I will present a whole series of other arguments why your proposals are not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52418	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52419	President, thank you again, Article 107. Just to point out to you and the Proposer that there is no misunderstanding here except for the misunderstanding generated by the motionary himself. Why? Our second authorised representative of the SPS, or our parliamentary group, was very clear and did not call for anything other than what was covered by the motion for a resolution by the motion. In order to explain, I'm just going to read the part, and that seems to me, Section 5, that's exactly attitude 5. I will repeat the proposal for a resolution in the opening section, where the motioner is just calling for a declaration, a declaration on the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of the AP Vojvodina, adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina at a session held on 20 May 2013. What was Dusan Bajatovic talking about other than the gene that is linked to today to submit a proposal that we are discussing? Isn't that at the same time a declaration called for by the promoter? Well, I'm sure it is. We condemned that same declaration in 2013, and our MPs, the SPS MPs at the AP Vojvodina Assembly, were against it. This declaration in the chronology of events is one of the generators of all of what the proposer states, and that mentions also the territory, and that mentions everything that we consider to be not in accordance with the Constitution, and what was rightly assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives at yesterday's session. I don't know why they'd doubt that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52420	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Verice Radet, by asking colleagues to report for damage to the Rules of Procedure and to speak. Because these few minutes ago, we also had a few replicas. Then I can't figure out how I hurt the Rules of Procedure if there's a debate here, of course, about the proposals that Mr. Nenad Canak was talking about. I can't, I have to let him speak, with him saying whatever he wants, he has the right to do it, and replicas can be sought is not a problem in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52421	Article 127, paragraph 1 is at stake. Indeed, given the topic we are discussing, the chairman must have a little flexibility and no one can think to challenge Nenada Canka to say everything she thinks she needs to say, he has said enough in these proposals. It is true that we have no obligation to pass any specific law, but here the question is raised, at least not like this, or we have no obligation, not at least, but absolutely no obligation and we cannot pass this law as proposed because it is not in accordance with the Constitution and with two other system laws. But the question is, why does the Venice Commission insist on it? Why does the opening of certain chapters insist on that? Why do we have to mention that a little bit? Now here is Nenad Canak and his proposal, as if speaking on behalf of those who force you to do something that is absolutely unconstitutional, so, among other things, you are not only forced to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and what is dangerous here and what really needs to be taken care of, what this bill provides is nothing but fiscal separatism. We can't possibly let that happen. That's why it really is, regardless of the broadest possible democracy, the question of whether it was good to discuss it here at all. When it all starts with fiscal separatism, you know where it can lead. So, I ask you to keep an eye on the chairman, certainly also on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that when any of us says that it is not good to get out of what the Constitution obliges us to, even if I don't know who asks or anyone else who would have thought to defend what is absolutely unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52422	Time. Was it a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Do you think the Rules of Procedure is hurt? (No) I thank you. We won't vote. Replica Vladimir Orlic, pa Dusan Bajatovic, Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52423	He asks Mr. Canak what's the issue if he was referring to the law and he didn't mean the things I mentioned, and it concerns both debts and investments. I know why I said it. I'll say it again if I have to, but you've heard about the law. Now he explained Mr. Martinovic. You could see that in the opinion you received from the government. Therefore, the opinion of your bill, page 3, says – and jurisdiction, species and height, is determined by a special law. Look what it says. What is the law, a special law in that sense. It's all good writing. Of course, if it were different, then it would turn out that the last ten years can't have the AP Vojvodina working at all, practically there isn't anything that's stopped there, and we know it's not. We know that and how it works, of course, in the last two and three years, significantly better than in that previous period that I mentioned because we are now talking about the context of European integration. In your proposal, I have found a claim concerning European integration, these things that are on the agenda that I deeply disagree with. I deeply disagree with the claim that we are dealing with European integration because we want to have the same foreign policy as someone else, or to be a peaceful country, we are not now. That's how it works out. So, I disagree with that, and I consider it a criticism of the government that I support, the policy set up by the SNS that I belong to, Alexander Vukic, who is the president of the Republic and my party. That is why I say - this policy is successful and the motivation for European integration should not be the desire for us to have the same foreign policy as someone else. Motivation should be a better life for citizens. Motivation should be to make us more successful in the good things that we are already achieving, tomorrow even more than today, and among other things, we have refinanced that nine billion debt that remained in Vojvodina by that government that you belonged to, because we were as successful today as we were before, to be even more successful, so we need to deal with European integrations, Mr. Canak, that these investments that we have over 300 million values in Vojvodina territory alone, tomorrow we have even more and that should be a motivation for European integration. Another sentence, therefore, that we are seriously dealing with these things, should be a good motive for this debate, but also for everything else that we do as MPs, and Chapter 23 and 24, I will continue later, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52424	Thank you. I'll give you my word, you're the law promoter, just to listen to more replicas, you don't have a two-minute limit, so will you answer or do you want a two-minute replica? You want it now, then you have two minutes, and this is how you've got it. Do you want it now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52425	On 21 June 2016, EU subpar Maja Kocijančić assessed the need to pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina as soon as possible. In January 2017, David McAllister recommended in the report the adoption of a law on the financing of Vojvodina. There may be some other provisions in some other laws dealing with this, but Vojvodina is not a local self-government, it's an AP, and that's why it can't be applied to, and we'll do this later.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52426	Dusan Bajatovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52427	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm trying to insist on Mr. Chank explaining that he shouldn't take the right to us and the others who want to develop the autonomy of the Vojvodina, that's what we're talking about. I'm trying to explain, Mr. Canak, I'm already analyzing your proposal, whether from 2013, 2015 or what year, I don't care, you have a direct interpretation of the Constitutional Court. When you look at Articles 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 of the law you have proposed are unconstitutional, according to the Constitutional Court, and now we have accepted as parliamentary majority to discuss it and you are now forcing us to talk again whether the tax system is unique, whether it solves one law or two laws. I'm plowing with you politically. Your theme's been missed. Let's change, if you and I want together, here we will be supported, as far as I understand Mr Orlic, if not against Serbia, which means what you write here -- starting with Vojvodina as a civil decentralised autonomy covering three traditional Vojvodina regions of Srem, Banat and Backo, nothing controversial. And firmly convinced that Vojvodina is not only a bridge of Serbia towards European integration, but also a factor in the stabilisation of the state and the region. Isn't that the job of everyone? Further, starting with the historical fact today's AP Vojvodina was created... (incomprehensible) the countries of her people in World War II which thus entered into the Federal Republic of Serbia on April 13, 1945, and we celebrated for a hundred years. Always your proposals contain controversial things to discuss, and then they're suspicious, plus they're anti-constitutional. Desiring to accept EU values, including common economic and foreign policy and becoming part of the European family as a country with a peaceful foreign policy. Mr. Orlic told you nicely, this now turns out that in the Vojvodina Resolution, we are criticising state policy. What's my suggestion, to you, political. Let's throw out everything that can be suspicious and put together some other plans and programmes that can accept this parliamentary majority in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and get more or less, maybe what we want together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52428	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52429	Mrs. Gojkovic, since you're an excellent lawyer, you know the situation, in the area of the AP Vojvodina, that you may have missed it, so I'm reporting in line with the fact that a injured member of the 107th Dignity Assembly and 27, when Mr. Canak said that we here dispute this argument by proposing this law, because we can't distinguish the AP from the units of local self-government. In that sense, he said. That's just not true. We know very well who we were witnesses and eventually voted for the Constitution that was adopted here, that organisation, so to speak, the unit in the state of AP, where citizens have certain rights, but also obligations, cannot be identified with the highest level of government, so he should have known...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52430	It's all clear to me, I'm just asking you not to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52431	No, no. I want to point out that...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52432	But it's absolutely clear to everyone that you're replicating, you don't have the right to do it at this point, because you're not even authorized, you're not the head of Parliament, Nenadu Canka.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52433	Well, you were supposed to react...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52434	I'm reacting...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52435	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure against you, did you hear, article 27? So, your obligation was like the president of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52436	Okay, first you said 107, and now 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52437	I told both 107 and 27 that you would point out to Member Chanko that we know very well the difference between the highest level of government, but also the one who is here, that our dignity would not be offended, should know the difference between the original and the derived incomes, so that it is known what the income is and that the tax is the revenue derived that can...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52438	Please allow the honourable MPs to have someone who needs to evaluate, just the president or the chairman, and I find that nothing was offensive when you exchange your political arguments and understandings. And Nenad Canak said what he thought he didn't understand your part of the speech and that you didn't understand the difference between what local self-government is, what the AP Vojvodina is, if I can quote you, because I wasn't in the O.R. when it happened and then this second part of the sentence, there's nothing offensive about it, nor can parliament so much, we'll hold that violation with dignity, this time, when I have to say so. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52439	I would like to begin by saying that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave a negative opinion on both of these proposals, both on the draft Law on the financing of the APV and also on the resolution. Not wanting to enter constitutional legal formulations, terms, terms, I don't want to deal with the theory of state and rights as to what the APV should carry with it, I want to say that in our system, the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia has been clearly defined as being financed by the APV. It is not true what Mr. Martinovic said, he is absolutely right, there are no deadlines, only laws that are contrary to the Constitution and that is the only thing that is right and true. Should the APV finance matter be regulated by any special act? We can talk about it and it is Mr. Bajatovic quite right, but we need to find a common starting point and a common denominator on how to get to it. This proposal, which lies before you, the government of the Republic of Serbia, feels that it is not good and that it is not acceptable at the moment. Chuck has some elements of archaicity, given the moments in which he was written. But let's ignore it. I want to get to one specific thing. The budget system law clearly states how APV is financed. The budget law that is passed every year says the same thing. He has the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration that says the tax system of this country works. If we accept these solutions, such as "Lex Specialis", as my colleague said earlier, we would automatically unmount the entire existing system as taxes in Serbia function, they are charged. I don't know what they'd do. It would be like some kind of legal blow to the entire system that exists. A complete collapse of the system, because then you wouldn't know who's drinking, or who's paying for the whole story. Well, the citizens of Vojvodina would be damaged in that whole story. This year, the government of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically its Ministry of Finance, has entered the process of transforming the entire tax administration and there will be some solutions that will contribute to decentralisation, but also a different way of doing it, but, as suggested, it cannot be acceptable. I'm glad to have this debate in this House. I'm glad you're calling on the Constitution. Whatever you think at the time of the adoption, but most of the proceedings become legitimate, most have voted. There's nothing after that. Any solutions and legal, the will of the citizens is expressed in the elections. The laws are passed in Parliament, and I respect that. I respect that you're going that way. I respect that you're here, not somewhere in the halls. Parliament isn't for walking. Parliament is in favour of debate, because yet some people have stood behind these legitimate representatives chosen by the people. I can't understand a different way of doing things, but we can disagree. Let me say a few things I've heard in the previous debate, which I think may have been torn out of context depending on how we look at this whole thing. The period is mentioned which is very interesting in the history of APV, which is 1974 to 1982. I have until 1982, because there's something else I want to say. I want to talk about the so-called five-year plans that existed, which were brought by the Executive Council of Vojvodina. At the time, it seems to me, the president of the Executive Council of Vojvodina Nikola Kmezic. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because it's directly related to agriculture and the processing industry, and there's one truth in the whole story. Why did development happen then? And someone noticed that well. I didn't get caught in that moment exactly who said it. You simply had a market with 22 million inhabitants. The processing industry can't operate on its own unless it has a minimum of 15 million inhabitants. You have to have channels on how to do that. And then you came into the situation that it was time, the potentials that stand in agriculture, which exist in river resources and made processing capacities that led to it being, as I say, the degree of development of this part of Serbia. It's perfectly normal, but it doesn't need to be connected to constitutional changes. It's a policy-making way, it would have happened later, only if it hadn't been for those crazy 1990s, if it hadn't been for the broken state. We lost the market. Our entire food industry has fallen apart for one reason only. It's made by the volume of any factory. Take "Smrem Shid" in Shid, take "Mitros" in Sremska Mitrovica, take "29. November" in Subotica, whatever you want. For 22 million inhabitants, a minimum plus export. That 22 million is guaranteed, plus at that point there were barriers to protecting the internal market from the outside. In 2000, after the five-octobaric change, we have overnight. Miroljub Labus, let's call it liberalisation. Everything's breaking down the barriers. Food industry just down there. After October 5th, there is no area of social life. Production that's more devastated than the food industry, but for one reason only, which is a broken barrier, and on the other hand, you don't have a market where to place, it's not 22 and six. Then, when I hear those famous stories. He says – we had a stock fund so big and so big in 1989. I agree, in Serbia. I totally agree. The stock fund served the needs of a market that was much wider. We need those markets. I want to say a few more things about investing from the Serbian budget in the area of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. In doing so, not getting into that system what Mr. Pastor said – is this so much from here, is it this much from there. It is important that every part of Serbia develops. Well, let's take it in a row. If we go about the economy, is there a local self-government in Vojvodina, where there was no investment? You, Mr. Canak, when you came to Belgrade today, you took the highway, even if you went through Ruma, you'd have a way to explain now what I want to say. You passed in Novi Sad, at least next to two drives, "Lira" and "Delfay". Did it exist ten years ago, did it exist thirty years ago, forty years ago, I mean in Novi Sad? There are MPs here from Novi Sad, I think no economic drive has been built, this big, this important to the economic development of the New Sad. Let's move on. We're moving, we're going 10, 15, 20 kilometers, and you said yourself in your presentation, that both on the left and on the right of the highway there are business entities that have evolved. I don't get into what you said, gas stations, and I don't care. I'm not interested in that context of what I mean, I'm talking about employment. Look, the other day in Covin when I was, investment one, investment the other. If that was ten years ago, I don't remember anything. I think I have the right to comment on these things besides being the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I'm from Vojvodina, I'm from Sremska Mitrovica, I was born there, I live there, I go to school there, all my people live there, and I live there now. What Marian would say, in the place of Roman emperors and broken mosques. There's something else I want to tell you. I remember when I was mayor, what it was like 15 years ago. I remember how it was fought within the same political party that passed the APV statute, so little did they kill each other in Mitrovica. If the then president had come on the day of the Statute of Vojvodina, they would have brought the Statute to Novi Sad, he would have come to Sremska Mitrovica and told these that he would have brought them down all there. And what do you say to all this, this circus? You were witnesses, you saw it all. You know all that. There's one other thing. Just before, Mr. Pastor said, "Y leg". Yeah, it's working and it's gonna be over this year. Once again, one thing that hasn't been finished for forty years is now done and done. Has anyone thought about a highway that would connect Serbia with Republika Srpska? No, he's gonna be building this year, Kuzmin, Racha, and so on. The highway, I remember how much I'm alive, there's talk of a highway that will connect, let's say, Shabatz and Novi Sad, Rumu and Novi Sad, and that's what's going to happen this year. Probably a signed commercial contract in April. Not to mention "Shandong" in Zrenjanin, and this is how we can talk for hours and hours. This has helped make the AP Vojvodina budget 74.4 billion dinars today. Nenad Canak: 74.4 billion. 74.4, I apologize. I don't read, I talk from my head. I didn't make a recital. But three or four years ago when this administration was, the second, that budget as far as it is, three years ago, that budget is 25% smaller, without fiscal consolidation, and without all that's happened in the last two or three years. We wouldn't be talking today, probably, about the funding system, as soon as there's money, of course there's more to it, not derivating the importance of this political issue, I'm not going into it at all, I'm talking, as soon as the money is, of course, that's what everyone is going to say to me -- right now everybody's going to cry like this. But there is one more thing I want to say, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, past the AP Vojvodina budget, past that famous Capital Investment Fund, is still doing some things through the Public Investment Office. So far it has been implemented in 24 municipalities, 32 different projects from different fields, education, health care. Let's start, for example, from Ada. In Ada two projects - the Czech Republic and the House for Old and Pensioners, almost 100 million dinars. Let's go, let's move on. Mali Ijoš, Home of Health "Marton Shandor" 36 million. Would they be able to do it alone in Little House? Could they have done it? Let's go. Keep going. Muggles, home of health. Landfield, two projects, home of health, an elementary school of 130 million. So ask yourself, what are the budgets of these local self-governments? Well, those of free investment funds and current maintenance if they have 50 million -- ceiling. I'm telling you this from experience, I'm not talking about what I'm making up right now. Come on, let's move on. Subotica in addition to what is related to the "Ipillon Krak", OS "Sonja Marinkovic" 47 million, the school of chemical and technology 156 million. Hey, guys, 200 million. It's not that small. There was somewhere to be made that money, so I don't talk about Shid with 50 million, etc., and in the preparation of projects for another 2.5 billion of these days in at least 15 local self-government. I want to say one thing, the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique, the right to autonomy guaranteed by the Constitution and undeniable. Way of funding done and arranged. Is it always more? Well, we can always talk about it. Can we regulate a different way? For the last time in a joint session of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the province government, we could have discussed this topic and probably not been far from the day this matter will be regulated and the government, or the finance ministry with this, but so many problems, people, this country nearly went bankrupt four years or five years ago. I don't know what we'd be talking about, what kind of funding would be black if she went bankrupt? The government of the Republic of Serbia does not think that such proposals should be accepted, but in this way it fully welcomes the way in which this is being conducted and the Government of the Republic of Serbia with its representatives will be here, to participate actively in this, and if, I must remind, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure which apply, it is not necessary and mandatory, since the opposition's proposer is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its representatives participate in this at all, but it is useful and I think it is correct and I think that this is correct, first and foremost, towards the promoter and all of you who are sitting in this House, because the place where such matters are being discussed is decided by this Parliament, not the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52440	Nenad Chanak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52441	I thank Mr. Nedimovic for this exhaustive presentation. I'd just like to ask a few questions to the government. First question, do you think there should be a law on the financing of Vojvodina at all? Is this law on the financing of the Vojvodina we're talking about supposed to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Should such a law last in terms of becoming an integral part, because it is defined by the Constitution and then as such should have some kind of sustainability as the Constitution itself? Can you give me an answer when you talk about all these investments in Vojvodina, which is why local self-government budgets are so small? The whole point is, you keep saying that the state is investing in local self-government, so that local self-government has bigger budgets, then it could be different. I, when I talk about this or the law on the financing of Vojvodina, first of all, talk about it being according to article 15. The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution, whether or not all laws which do not comply with the Constitution should be complied with by 31 December 2008. There is no law, therefore it must be made in accordance with the Constitution. It's been over 10 years since then. That's what I talk about all the time. I'm talking about it, I just said it again, I'm going to say it again, I'm talking about it being important because our partners in the EU are asking what's going on with this concrete law. You said it was archaic law. I couldn't agree more. I totally agree, but not until the end, because he is archaic in the sense that he was written five years or four years ago, but on the other hand the laws can't be written to last 15 minutes or six months. The laws should still last a little longer. In that sense, it was also the idea to do something by submitting the amendment, which, as some of the amendments that were submitted, we accepted and became part of this proposal, we should, in my opinion, make something out of this template, or reject it, but to give your template or to correct or to do something, but to get out of this situation. Too often, this is neither the first, nor the second, nor the fifth time, but who knows which time when we talk about Vojvodina issues, it is usually the famous answer at the moment when Kosovo is our priority, this is not a priority or when it is a priority this or that, Vojvodina is not a priority. I'm not even talking about the Vojvodina here, I'm talking about the Constitution, talking about the financing law. When I talk about this resolution, I agree. If you think there's something wrong, let's talk about it, but then it intervenes, in my opinion, the amendments, it intervenes constructively, because this is how we get into a situation where this ends as one form of debate time, without more concrete results, on the move, in the direction of passing this law, we're practically just going to postpone the question for a further period. We'll just push him under the carpet again, instead of catching him now, we'll figure it out and make it work either the parliamentary majority or the ministry competent or anyone. Second of all, you're right that you have no obligation to be here and that the government has no obligation to meet the opposition MPs, but think about what you said. Personally, I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government that rules all citizens, i.e. It regulates the lives of all citizens, and in this sense I appreciate, of course, that we have been given the chance to come to the Assembly for this coalition-based bill, as you have heard. However, on the other hand, I kind of think it's good to think and already what you're going to do when you're an opposition, because the reason is very simple. When Mr. Bajatovic was an opposition, he was making demonstrations while I happened to be president of the Vojvodina Assembly, and then he knocked me down, and he made a demonstration and brought people before the Vojvodina Assembly. I went outside and asked what was the problem? They say they have objections. Okay. I invited Mr. Bajtovic to come in and I asked the MPs if it was okay to address the Assembly, they said he did, he got his time in direct transmission from the Assembly, we finished, Mr. Bajatovic said what he had, remarks on the agenda point, Vojvodina's flag proposal was on the agenda, he delivered his opinion, thanked him, came out and continued to function. That's exactly what I'm saying. The congregation serves to gather in it and solve matters. That is why it is your obligation, as Government, to be there and when opposition MPs have something to ask, and when opposition MPs ask a question. Maybe I don't understand. Maybe I wasn't well informed whether it was really necessary to have a law on the financing of the Vojvodina. Perhaps it is, as Mr Martinovic says, all already resolved by some other laws. It's all possible. I only refer to what Maja Kocijančić said or what Mr. McAllister said – when will the Law on the financing of Vojvodina be passed? It is said in Article 15 to 31 December 2008. The previous government that, you claim, was bad, please nice, didn't bring it and left you a problem. This power now, since it is more capable, obviously, let's see, let that power solve it, or I'll begin to doubt that any government has the same relationship with Vojvodina, which would naturally surprise me very much, since I know your origin and your political engagement so far, that a man who lives in Vojvodina and lives in Vojvodina doesn't understand how important that is, so please answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52442	First it hurts the Rules of Procedure. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52443	I would like to thank the President, or President. I'm pointing to Article 27's breach regarding Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, because it is obvious that we as MPs have not been informed that there has been a substituting of the motionary. As far as I know, the promoter is an authorised representative of the LSV, not a minister of agriculture. Therefore, in no case can the Proposer ask the questions of the Minister of Agriculture, which in this case is here by its own free will and because the Government felt it was very important that the Government's representative be present, which we described as correct and correct, but he is not the Proposer and then asking the Minister's question really makes no sense when the debate is being held here, and it is obvious that Article 27 speaks strictly of the fact that, Madam President, you have to keep an eye on what rights are and what rights of the promoter, and in no way does he teach the Minister what he needs to do and what way to do it. With all due respect to the promoter, who has undoubtedly made it possible to hold a debate on one issue which is and how a couple of excellent political issues, I don't think such violations of the Rules of Procedure should be tolerated anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52444	I don't know what to say. I don't see how I hurt the Rules of Procedure as chairman. I don't suppose you're asking us to vote on my guilt. Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52445	Article 27(1) You asked me if I was staying because they were similar remarks, but I see them in other ways. The government of the Republic of Serbia has declared these proposals and clearly and unequivocally said that this should not be accepted and that the government does not accept it. Now, strictly speaking, we didn't need a government official here. We don't mind the minister being here and we don't mind the minister taking part in the debate, but it's a little bit of a problem with the aspect of our Rules of Procedure. I don't know on what basis the minister can speak for seven, eight minutes, and we in the parliamentary group can't. So, we don't mind having a minister tell as many stories as he wants, so let's talk as much as we want, as long as we think it takes to actually get rid of this political story. Just now, the promoter, Mr. Canak, is sorting out questions to Minister Nedimovic as if he were a student, so Canak has to ask him, ask him, ask him, ask him. Nedimovic here represents the government that said we are not interested in Cank's law, not in accordance with the Constitution, we do not need the end. So, this is a couple of excellency political stories and the essence was just said by Mr. Canak. McAllister, Maja Kocijančić. That's what they're asking for a law like this to be passed. That's why it's not good that it's put on the agenda, and if it is, then I ask for enough flexibility for all the MPs who want to participate in this. Serbia is very interested in today's session. People in Serbia were very concerned when they heard that this was put on the agenda in fear that, God forbid, such a law that is essentially fiscal separatism was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52446	Article 27. You have called for item 1, previous speaker to point 3. We can think of it as not the same member. Item 1, Section 3, that's already a skill. According to Article 96, you asked me, that's Section 6. – The Prime Minister and the members of the Government shall be given the floor when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the exposure. (The Faith of Radeta: When? It doesn't say. Okay, but if you want a member of the government not to be present at the session, we can agree on that, too, it's not a problem. We'll make a deal. The word has been issued by Parliament MP Milorad Mijatovic, as authorised in front of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52447	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the honourable officials, the esteemed president, I would like to welcome your decision to put these points of the agenda and to discuss them. I do it for a number of reasons. The first reason is that these proposals come from one opposition group – LSDV, and this has come to the agenda, and we discuss it very culturally with the differences that exist between us. Secondly, regardless of what we are discussing here, we have a very important fact, we are opening up a number of issues that are very important for Serbia that should join the EU. It is a question of decentralisation, of decentralisation of local administrations, of the autonomy of Vojvodina and autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija. We always forget that we have two autonomous provinces. True, it stands there somewhere that one province has essential autonomy and another one has real autonomy. I've been thinking about what those two words mean, but for me, autonomy is autonomy. What degree? We can talk about that. But I'd like to say SDPS. The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina is a constitutional category and we advocate to keep it a constitutional category. The fact itself says that we believe that this level of government should exist, that it needs to be developed and that an autonomous province should not exist because of the province's administration, but because some things at that level would be better done. The fact itself says that, and it is good that most parliamentary groups do not dispute the issue of autonomy, but since we are seeking to join the EU, there will certainly be a lot of questions in the EU about all those chapters that we are opening, is what level of autonomy, there are different levels of autonomy in the EU. We'll definitely have to change the Constitution. By changing the constitution, we will surely know what degree of autonomy corresponds at the moment of Serbia's development. When we talk about autonomy at all, then be assured that I stand at the point that this Constitution from 2006, however controversial it may be, it exists, it is valid and I believe that there are opportunities for many issues to be resolved under this Constitution. Among these issues is the issue of financing the AP Vojvodina. Why am I stressing that? I stress because of the fact, you know, we now have both in the state of Serbia and in the AP Vojvodina the same ruling majority. That ruling majority, please, through synergy, has done a lot. We have no problems in that part of our country, AP Vojvodina. Projects are being realised, Vojvodina is moving forward, and that is only because there is synergy in both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. What are we going to do tomorrow when it's not the same, if that happens, the same political party or the same ruling majority? That is why we need to settle this area in order to finally resolve one issue. You know, we can't ask the question every ten years that when someone comes from Vojvodina, they'll say yes, we're damaged. It will be said here that Serbia is investing heavily in Vojvodina. You know, I'd be very happy if everyone was as developed as Vojvodina, but the question of historical heritage, the question of everything else, we're right where we are. I want to say, and we stand behind that point, that we have a single legal system, that we have a unique economic system, but that we have clear relationships of what, who and what it has. I said some of the questions we're gonna talk about here, which is local self-government. You know, it's a good thing a lot of questions are solved by projects. However, I have the impression that when I go to local self-government, most of the president of the municipalities asks me – how can you bring me to that minister or to that assistant minister and secretary of state, everyone is asking for money. I want to say one other question, and then what is the responsibility of local self-government, what is it that they are interested in developing economics in their community, in their city, to create funds? I'm under the impression that local self-government is in a situation where they're simply looking for money to be spent. My view, which is the attitude and European integration, is that money should be earned and only then spent. In that sense, it also requires a detailed change in the Constitution, and I think we will come to that and we will know what and how to move on. I don't think that this question that we've opened today is going to be closed today, but we're talking about it very openly, very clearly what we want and where we want. If this ruling coalition, where the Social Democratic Party belongs, is interested in European integration and essentially wants to be an integral part of the EU, then we will know and be able to solve all problems. If we could carry out economic consolidation, if we could solve a lot of issues, we could solve this issue that's not difficult to solve, especially when we have the resources. It's easy to allocate the funds that have been earned. But often when we talk about all this, we get into a situation where we often think that Vojvodina is too evolved. Here I agree with counterpart Canka, you know, Vojvodina is not the highway of Belgrade-Novi Sad and that 80km, there are both plants and works as part of Europe. Get away from it, get off the highway of Belgrade-Zagreb or this circle, rings around Belgrade where Ruma, Sremska Mitrovica, Stara Pazova, Indjia, which are already developed parts, as if you were in Europe. We need to talk about those environments that are in a difficult situation, and those environments exist. You know, I was born in Vojvodina, I live in Vojvodina, my ancestors are born here, my grandfather, my great-grandfather and so on, I'm very attached to that neighborhood, but I have to tell you, we can talk about Vojvodina, Vojvodina no longer has enough people, people are leaving Vojvodina. Where I was born, Erdeviku, there were 4,500 inhabitants, now you have 800 inhabitants. She's born between 12 and 15 babies, and 60 people die. Many people go out wanting something else, they go to Slovakia, they go to Hungary, and we have rooms that are extraordinary, which are good, and we have problems finding people for the drives that are opening. In Vojvodina, someone has always come, anytime, 30, 50, 100 years. We no longer have residents who can come to Vojvodina, unless we expect migrants to come. Well, they don't stay there either, at least those from these parts of Asia, but we're probably waiting for those who are going to leave sub-Saharan Africa. Maybe they'll stay here because they're God-given spaces. When I talk about it, then let's go back to life's problems, how to further improve that Vojvodina is moving forward, not just Vojvodina, but other parts of Serbia. I see very great possibilities here. He looks forward to me, and Minister Nedimovic said we would take the highway from Ruma-Sabac, i.e. on a fast road to Loznica. So, the opening of western Serbia towards Vojvodina and Romania. It's just that when you have one developed environment, it pulls other environments, and we can do that if we know clean relationships, clean bills. I see the solution to this problem the following way – first, let's talk, let's set political priorities. Is it now your political priority to put this issue first, because Serbia has other more important issues to address. We can't put this question under the carpet and we can solve it. For me, the first step is very simple, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the AP Vojvodina sits down for one hundred, builds working groups and makes a proposal. This is a system law, this is a very important law. It can neither be easily nor quickly created, but conversations and arrangements can come to an acceptable solution. I just want to say a few more things. We have opportunities that allow us this Constitution and I believe that the Constitution gives us the opportunity without any changes to solve these problems. For those who want to say that the AP shouldn't exist, I can always tell them -- that, gentlemen, you don't decide, you'll never decide and you won't have that power to say anything about it. The very fact that you're often prone to conspiracy theories tells you what you think. After all, Serbian citizens say that when they give you confidence in the elections, and I see that you are nowhere else in all election cycles. I live in the belief that you will not be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52448	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52449	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will begin my speech a little unusually. Ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed viewers, today they missed the opportunity to perform live on state television for 20 minutes by Bosko Obradovic called Boskic Ljotic, which was missed by Mr Zivkovic today. The same opportunity was missed by Mr. Ciric for 20 minutes. The same opportunity was missed by Sanda Raskovic Ivić. The same opportunity was missed by Mr. Alexic. I may have forgotten some MPs' group, but that's about 120 minutes total, which means they missed the chance to live on RTS, on state television for two hours. They also missed the opportunity to defend their three-minute additions to the agenda, totaling 20 extra hours. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, those who, for two or three minutes live in the diary, tried to carry out a coup today missed the opportunity to turn live to the citizens for three hours. As far as the Vojvodina is concerned, I have nothing written, no plagiarism, no plagiarized plagiarism. I have nothing to read, I'll try something out of my head. Ladies and gentlemen, I will address Mrs. Jerkov who is not here. I want to believe it's her file, but I think she signed it, but I'm worried about something else. I'm worried about the hypocritical behavior of DS. They have two policies. They have one policy to narrow Serbia, so-called They narrow it down to Serbia, as they call it. It's Latvian-Dvorda politics. The second policy is in Vojvodina. This policy is based on Alexander Jerkov's views. She outsmarted her teacher. It's now called the Republic of Vojvodina. So the negative selection came into effect with her. So, those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who support Bosko Ljotis, via Aleksandra Jerkov and Marinika Tepic, support the idea of Gilas on the republic of Vojvodina. The politics of Aleksandra Jerkov, the politics of Boško Ljotić, the politics of these fascist palans are reduced to the following – whatever the backside is, the cheek does not mind. And now for Vojvodina. I suggested, unlike some of my colleagues who have objections, I proposed an amendment. I see the history of the Duke differently. I see it the way it was read in that explanation today. There's a lot I can agree with, but I can't agree with what's in the resolution. For me, Vojvodina didn't come from a communist dictatorship, it says in the resolution. I cannot admit the autonomy of Vojvodina, and I am one of the autonomists who thinks Vojvodina's autonomy for the sake of Serbia's stability should exist. The level of autonomy that is now enough for me. The way of funding is acceptable to me, as most MPs of the National Assembly decide. So, I like stable Vojvodina and stable Serbia. Without a stable Vojvodina, there is no stable Serbia, but I see the historical context in the drive of Serbs for autonomy. For me, the autonomy of the Duke's Serbian thing is completely Serbian. I'm from the Serbian Kingdom. I come from the Sremska Kingdom which was the Serbian Kingdom. I go from Dragutin, I go from Vladislav, from 1282 to 1325, these two Germans ruled the Sremski Kingdom and it must not be forgotten. It must never be forgotten. After that, Serbs again sought to have their own state. Vojvodina was also in the Austrian Empire, it was also in Austro-Hungarian, it was also under the Turks. There were 17 mosques in Vojvodina. It's not the mosques, that Mr. Nedim Sejdinovic doesn't get me wrong, the minister spoke – it wasn't the mosques in Vojvodina that brought down Serbs, but Austrians, all 17 in Mitrovica. In Mitrovica, where the Romans lived, they had seven Roman emperors. The Vojvodina was created in the Serbian aspirations. Vojvodina is not the end of the Sremska Kingdom, which was provided by Tuzla-Bijeljina-Usor-Soli to the Mines, Braniceva etc. She wasn't missing, she was the kingdom of John Nenada based in Subotica. After that, the Dukeship was meeting with its headquarters in Slankamen, Radoslav Celnik. After that, there was Despotova in the Buyer. Everywhere, there was a tendency for Serbs in Vojvodina to have their own state, to have their autonomy, and to reach the state through autonomy. They helped the Serb brothers get rid of themselves, Turkey's evil. Don't forget the 1557 Mehmed Pasha Sokolovic. Don't forget the ancient history. Don't forget the 1594 Vršačka rebellion, when Theodor Vršački and the banners of St. Sava raised a rebellion against the Turks. That's why they're in Tashmajdan, not St. Sava's Caver. Don't forget that. Don't forget the recognition of the Austrian Empire of Serbs for a nation and the right to a dukery. Let's not forget Vojvodina and Serbia, the Serbian dukedom. Let's not forget 1848 and 1849. Let us not forget that Francis Joseph was the Duke of the Serbian Duchess. Let's not forget anything that proves the tendency not only of the Serbs, but of others, that Vojvodina as we call it today to be autonomy, even of the state, that desire lasted. Sometimes others who lived in Serbia didn't give it to us, but we should remember that. What is the autonomy of the Vojvodina with them today should be shared for the sake of the stability of the entire Serbian state. We must not make the mistake we made in Kosovo. Perhaps if Milosevic had returned autonomy and a certain degree of autonomy to Albanians, as I recommended in 1997, they might have sang a different song today. Let's not forget 1918. Let's not forget, although Serbia's history has deliberately been brought down by communist decisions to the history of Serbia's ropes, it was done with intent not to see Vojvodina as a Serbian thing. Let's not forget the first Serbian shirt, then the Yugoslav coat. Let's not forget the Romanian Assembly, it's not in the resolution. Let us not forget the Grand National Assembly of Slovenian peoples in Novi Sad. Let's not forget 1945. I cannot be proud of it because in 1944 and 1945, there were many injustices, persecutions, murders, camps, more than 30,000 people were killed. There's no tomb there built by Chetniks, and there's a grave made by communists. In his first phase Communism wasn't evil all the time. He was in his first phase when he killed everything that was advanced. They gave up Baranja. From the joint Serbian kingdom, they eliminated Baranja, Vukovar. They did it in 1995. If it hadn't been for that decision, I'd have seen Baranja, and I'd have seen Vukovar. If it wasn't for that decision, it probably would have been. It was that decision, and it has to be lived with. I see Vojvodina after 2000. I see an omnibus that went by one vote, I didn't quite like it, but I voted. I know that he escaped from DS Pal Shandor and that he barely went for that one vote. I also see the transfer of jurisdiction, and I see the Statute of the Duke. I look forward to having that degree of autonomy raised by Vojvodina. Let the Government of the Republic of Serbia consider how it is worth funding the powers of Vojvodina and I will have no objection. But we have something else against it. I've already said what I don't admit, but ladies and gentlemen today Maya Kocijancic is not an interpreter of our Constitution. I see the drive of those around us who made nothing of the state, and here they let some government do nothing from the state, which ruled in Vojvodina until 2016. I see co-operation where what's left of an independent Serbia is made of the rest of the SFRY. I see the intensity that Serbia is federalizing the way it was done with the former SFRY. Jasa Tomic said -- the first Serbian shirt, then the Yugoslav coat. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been swallowed by a Yugoslav coat, against the wishes of the Serb people, but I won't give a Serbian shirt in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52450	Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52451	I was reporting for the replica, and I don't know if you saw me or if you thought there was no replica room, but I think there is because a colleague not Risticevic, but before him talked about a party that advocates the abolition of autonomy, or the AP as not the province, but the autonomy of Vojvodina. The only political party representing the theory is the SRS and this is what Vojislav Seselj was talking about here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52452	I didn't recognize you, I'd give you a replica. Maybe he didn't mean your game.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52453	He thought and looked in our direction, pretended not to think, so he said that...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52454	Which messenger was that I only knew?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52455	Mr. Mijatovic. So he said that we cannot decide on this, and we also tell everyone else that we are in favour of Serbia's fiscal sovereignty, when it comes to these proposals, all in the context of protecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, but we are seriously afraid for our territorial integrity and sovereignty for justifiable reasons, and additionally because of the fact that Rasim Ljajic is the Deputy Prime Minister and that he is the coalition partner of Sulejman Ugljanin, who is seeking the secession of Raska from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52456	The replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52457	Thank you. [[The Belief of Radet: No replica, I've asked for a Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52458	So now you said you were looking for a replica and I let you rephrase then.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52459	I'm willing to talk about political issues and political reasons, and to muddle someone, I don't want to, I've never done that, I'll never do it. So I'm not going to respond this time, as the predecessor said, again, to say, as she's done before, something that's not true. But I'm not going to talk any further, not because I don't want to talk, but because I think that repeated repetition as it seems on both sides of the lie can never be true, period.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52460	Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52461	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of historical facts here today, data, what's happened in the past. On the other hand, various legal interpretations, whether it is necessary to call the law on how to finance the AP Vojvodina or otherwise, etc. I'd like to talk a little bit more about what is simply the reality of the one that exists in Vojvodina and why we've been insisting so much, for ten years, that this law be passed. Preparing for today's session, I found a very interesting interview with Goran Milic, who gave in October 2014 during a series of "Alchemy of the Balkans" when he recorded 15 half-hour shows in Serbia. Then he said one sentence, very interesting to me, he says -- I saw something I hadn't thought about, because I lived in a stereotype, I thought Vojvodina was the richest part of Serbia, and the south of Serbia is much poorer. But things change, now the Duke's fall, and those who make some other fruit products, to the industry, have better results. So he says -- recently my friend and colleague, Zaharija Trnavcevic, a late journalist of reputation, said -- will not last long for Vojvodina to envy the mountainous parts of Serbia. This is what I wanted to be a simple introduction to what I want to say further. In Vojvodina, we do not want the Vojvodina, or Vojvodina, to envy anyone in the region, in Serbia for greater development. We want only the Constitution and the law to be respected, which is repeatedly highlighted here today. That is why we have also given this draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which is before you, as well as the Resolution of the National Assembly, or the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. I will remind you, although it has been heard here several times, that the Constitution, which was adopted in 2006, in a referendum in Vojvodina, has not passed, but since we are part of the Republic of Serbia, we respect its laws, and so we respect this Constitution that we have not, I must say, voted for. The deadline for the adoption of the financing law was, as we have already heard, 31 December or better to say, the alignment of all laws with the Constitution, and so was the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. So it has been 10 years since the constitutional deadline for the adoption of laws on the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina and it must be recognised that it is not someone's will or priority and assessment issue. The question arises, what message is being sent by allowing such a relationship to the AP Vojvodina and its institutions and citizens if it is said – not now is the time, let's wait, let's see while some other problems are solved. I'll remind you again, and we've heard that before, we'll hear it more than once, in article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been defined to be at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the APV budget being used to finance capital expenditures. If it is considered that for this, let's say, a year, we heard the data but I will repeat, the AP Vojvodina budget is 74 billion dinars, of which 44 billion are the transfer funds that are actually the funds that are transferred to pay for employees in education and funds for local self-government, then practically for all other needs remains the remaining 30 billion. When calculated for three weeks, it is so small a means that, for the sake of comparisons, the construction of a wastewater treatment plant in Novi Sad, which is needed to die as they say in the people, amounts somewhere in roughly 100m euros. So, practically one budget could be spent on only one or two buildings of capital infrastructure importance. The basis for these 7% should be the total revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, not just tax revenues as foreseen by the Budget System Act, which was amended in 2013 and which actually became a stumbling block, as it was then amended so that only tax revenues went to the province's budget. In fact, how much Vojvodina puts into the republican budget, and as far as it gets from it, no one knows, practically, in detail, and that's how it's been for years. That's why, I repeat again, which is why this law, whatever we call it, has to be passed. I will remind you that the Vojvodina Assembly has submitted a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions of the law on the budgetary system of the Constitutional Court, but nothing has happened, and Article 187. The constitution has been defined to protect the province's autonomy, where among other things it states that an authority designated by the law of the AP, an autonomous province, may initiate a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the law and the second general act of the Republic of Serbia or a general act of the unit of local self-government which violates the right to province autonomy. Of course, in this case, he was considered to have been injured, or affected by autonomy, and a constitutional assessment was sought, but nothing happened there. So, pending the adoption of a law on the financing of the authority of Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Assembly adopted in November 2013 a platform on the starting basis for the development of law on the financing of the mandate of the AP Vojvodina, which then the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Istvan Pastor, passed on to then Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and then nothing happened. In 2014, the Council adopted The assembly of the AP Vojvodina adopted the Declaration on the Protection of Constitutional and Legal Rights of the AP Vojvodina. The finance ministry has so far formed two working groups to draft laws on the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina, which were made by representatives of the republican and rural governments, the first still at the time of Minister Lazar Krstic, however, and those working groups have not made progress in drawing up legislation on the financing of the mandate of the AP Vojvodina. In February 2015, the Provincial Government adopted a draft law on financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. According to media, then-President of the Assembly Mr. Istvan Pastor said the law will try to create an environment for talks with parliamentary clubs and that it is intended to find solutions that will satisfy the legal and constitutional framework, and that on the other hand it responds to the reality of the Republic of Serbia's budget. And then nothing happened, it just didn't go any further than that. Then, in January 2016, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the Budgetary System Act, which produced a reduction in the AP Vojvodina budget below those constitutional 7%, and I have some information that only now at the end of 2018 has the answer that the application has become obsolete. So, all attempts so far to do something about this plan and to repair the economic, financial situation in the AP Vojvodina did not bear fruit. We are wondering what kind of message is being sent by allowing such a relationship with the province's institutions, as if Novi Sad and Belgrade are on two continents, so representatives of the institutions of the Republic and the province can hardly meet. Here, today we heard from the minister that before a while ago, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the District Government met, which is good, but we hope that something of this will bear fruit. On the other hand, without the law and the law on jurisdiction, there is always one impression that the Vojvodina is given something from Belgrade, rather than once and permanently settle the question of what its powers are and how it will be financed and does not depend on the political will of any ruling furniture. I'd like to ask my SPS colleagues for a little quiet. Can I ask you a favor? We listened very carefully to your colleague. I'm sorry. So, in the Vojvodina Regional Development Programme, it is a document adopted and valid for the period from 2014 to 2020, and it is in line with the Programme for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, it is said: "Decentralisation is a condition for improving regional development. Factors that determine optimal size and type of decentralised units are population and size of territory. The more populated the country, and the level of communication between different levels provided through regional institutions and bodies, decentralisation is more successful and desirable." So it's written in the document that decentralisation is desirable and needed to be implemented. We are now in 2019 and have waited long enough for both us and the citizens of Vojvodina to obtain conditions and find solutions for the adoption of this law. As an illustration and in the time available, I'd like to give you some examples of the situation in certain areas. So using the data from this programme that I mentioned, which is this Programme of Regional Development of Vojvodina, it is seen that in the period between two censuses, from 2002 to 2011, the population in Vojvodina fell from about 2,031,000 to 1,916,000, which is about 115,000 people less. This year, a trial list is planned, ahead of the official list in 2021, and this picture will certainly be far worse, primarily because of the application of austerity measures that we had back several years and which is why a large number of doctors, medical workers, as well as people from other professions have temporarily or permanently left Vojvodina. In other words, what I want to say is that no one leaves the environment in which he is well and in which he lives. So, there's something wrong with the quality of life and the potential for development in Vojvodina. Furthermore, from the data I can give you, from 45 municipalities in Vojvodina, 14 are underdeveloped, and three are highly underdeveloped. It is a highly underdeveloped municipality that has between 40% and 60% of the republican average of development. That's three in the province. It is a clear enough picture that the stereotype of the development of the Vojvodina is long gone, but I have mentioned the budgetary resources involved, and the budgets of local self-government are even smaller. There is also evidence in the mentioned Regional Development Programme that the road network in Vojvodina is homogeneous and that it enables good regional accessibility, but the problem represents the state and quality of the road network. It was built in an earlier period, when the roads were paved, but, of course, all these years back, were being poorly maintained again due to lack of funds. The level of security is, they say, reduced, and the cost of exploitation is high. In the third time, the damage to August is above the tolerance of 20%. Compared to the entire territory of Serbia, there are around 24% of first-row state roads in the AP Vojvodina, around 15% of second-row state routes and only 11% of municipal roads. The density of municipal roads in Vojvodina is far lower than the rest of Serbia, and significantly lags in comparison with neighbouring and other European countries, which means that communication between settlements within the AP Vojvodina is difficult, the availability of medical services is also difficult and other mobility is also difficult. For example, we from Novi Sad, for example, need to travel to Panchev somewhere almost three now, if we go through Perlez and then it's always easier for us to go through Belgrade. That only speaks of the extent to which this network of roads is bad. Or travel to Somboro for two and a half hours. I would especially like to highlight the example of the route through Fruska, which I have already mentioned many times, and when it comes to the adoption of the budget, as well as when it comes to asking parliamentary questions. In fact, it's only 30 kilometers. You mentioned here today planning the road from Ruma to Šapec, according to Republika Srpska, etc., but nobody mentions when the construction of the tunnel will finally begin through Frust Mountain, because we see that this year some 300 million dinars are planned in the budget and they are intended, as far as we have seen, to create documentation and eventually expropriate land, which means that we will not have a beginning of work on this road, and I will remind the roads in Vojvodina are in jurisdiction or the Republic or municipalities, depending on the category. There is no company of the roads of Vojvodina, as there once was, which maintained roads when they were in much better quality. As far as the railroad is concerned, it's a special story. They say the post-war history of the railway in Vojvodina records two periods when it was managed by Belgrade. The first was from 1965 to 1976 and the second from 1990 practically to today. For both periods, total rapture, demonstration and extraction of railway property is characteristic. From the mid-70s to the late 1980s, the Novi Sad Railway Transport Company, which existed at the time, was uniting the Vojvodina railways, experienced a total Renaissance and boom in every respect. However, today, the number of railways, the state of the railways, the state of other buildings is almost worrying, except for some of the main railway parts that we often hear from the minister when he explains our objections why the railway network and the road network are not being built and developed, so he says – now you get the railway for Budapest. It's a state project. We are talking about those relationships that once existed, that is, the railway that existed on the entire territory of Vojvodina, which was completely cross-border, because it has practically a long tradition. Under the Law on Railways and the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways, rail infrastructure is good in general use and in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. So we don't even have a country level of jurisdiction over the railroad here now either. It's also in their jurisdiction to maintain railway stations. But I must point out as the special curiosity of the train station in Novi Sad, which was our closest role model, was once the pride of this city, built in the early '60s, was also the concept of beauty and functionality. Today, pigeons moved into the lobby of the station. It's a pretty mousse object, which is the worst, there's no moving stairs, so the passengers are struggling with luggage, and the possibility of being used by disabled people is practically impossible. So that may sound like a detail to someone, but it's just a picture of what and how it can be invested when you don't have the resources and you don't have the authority. As for the state of health, I'd like to look back on that for a little while. Only nine municipalities of 45 in Vojvodina have made high access to health services, all others are below that level. The population coverage of one doctor at the level of the Republic of Serbia is 345 and at the level of the AP Vojvodina 400 patients, which shows an unfavourable situation at the province level, and who is taken as being in regions within the province, according to the districts of the AP Vojvodina, is seen to be the most favourable situation in South-Bačka. Of course, because there's headquarters, there's Novi Sad and hospital institutions, or institutions in Novi Sad. There are 314 patients per doctor, and most unfavourable at the level of the Srem County 549 residents per doctor. This is all the data from that document I was telling you about, which is this Programme of Temporary Development in 2014 to 2020. In many villages, ambulances have been shut down, and in some villages the doctor comes once a week, and since our villages have been released, so they have stayed with the wave of nursing households, they are the most common residents of the village, when they need a doctor to go to the nearest home of health, even up to 50 kilometers, even if it is necessary to go to a specialist, to the nearest hospital. The problem is leaving, because many bus lines have also been shut down, and for taxi transport many people living in these areas, especially farmers do not have money. In such circumstances, preventive examinations that are widely talked about at all levels are rare, and they address a doctor only when the disease takes hold. I must point out that Novi Sad doesn't have a city hospital, the existing District Hospital is somewhere from the time of Austro-Hungarian. The health care authority is, again, under the jurisdiction of the Republic, and everything is decided at the level of the Ministry of Health. I will remind you that most of the homes are healthy and the Vojvodina hospital was built during the period when the larger funds remained in the AP Vojvodina budget. What's the basis of this law is, we're not asking someone to give us something, but to take less from here, when I say from here, from the AP Vojvodina. Finally something that is mine, a close topic to me, a state of environmental protection. In Vojvodina, there is, and this is a very unstable data, over 500 wild dumps, and it is not built, or that no regional dump has been completed so far, although the waste management strategy envisions the construction of eight regional dumps. One of the most messy and ugliest and ugliest of us is a dump, it is a New Sad dump, located along the highway itself where it is intended to build a regional dump, and this story of building a regional dump in line with the Strategy has been existing for many years. But that's not the way to go. Again, starting with the lack of funds. What is the basic problem of the Environmental Protection Fund, which is defined by the Environmental Protection Act, has the resources provided for, or 80% of the pollution charge goes to the Republic budget, and 20% goes to the local level. There is no rural level, and this is one of the problems that simply, one of the reasons why it is difficult to revive the construction of regional dumps and the possibility of building the area in the entire territory of the province of Vojvodina. I see my time is up. I'd have a lot more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52462	Sure, in the follow-up of the discussion. The last authorised Aleksandar Martinovic. I didn't extend the time, so 18.00 hours, after his exposure, we're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52463	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. At first, I would like to say that today the provincial government has decided to award 175 million dinars to families with three and more children. It's just one in not an example of the good of the people of Vojvodina, instead of only talking about Vojvodina and its autonomy, as was the case by 2016. What I also want to say is that the SNS parliamentary group will vote against the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the Proposal for a Resolution on the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina for several reasons. First of all, we do not agree with what Mr Nenad Canak and LSV MPs have proposed, because we consider the issue of financing the AP Vojvodina Constitution to be very clearly defined. The Constitution speaks of the law, so Article 184. The constitution says very clearly that the law determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income. When you read the bill, you see that they're talking about expenses. So what the bill says seems to me to be out of line with the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. I have already said that Mr. Canak is wrong when he says there is no law, that there are no legal regulations in the Republic of Serbia that regulate the issue of financing the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. There are at least two laws, which apply to this, are the Law on the Budgetary System, which was adopted in 2009, at the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and that is the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia's 2019 Budget, which very clearly prescribes the amount of tax on individual taxes and which go in favour of the AP Vojvodina budget. Mr. Nenad Canak presented today a whole series of data and information related to the history of the AP Vojvodina. Some of these data are accurate, some are not accurate, some are not his, but borrowed by some others. What's this about? I listened very carefully to that part of Mr Chank's presentation that spoke about Serbia exploiting Vojvodina in the Kingdom of SHS, or in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. First of all, in a legal and historical sense, it is not true because neither was Serbia, nor was Vojvodina, the Kingdom of SHS on the Kingdom of Yugoslavia a unitary state. So there's no Serbia, there's no Vojvodina, there's one state, there's one king, there's one assembly and there's one government. That's how that country was arranged. That story about how they're so-called. The precanic landscapes were exposed to exploitation by Belgrade, which is also statistics presented today by Mr Nenad Canak. This is the statistics Mr. Canak you took from the book, and correct me if I am wrong, Rudolf Bitjanić – the economic background of Croatian issues. The book was published in Zagreb in 1938, and the preface for the book was written by the president of the Croatian Peasant Party Vlatko Maček. There was a whole series of incorrect information about how the Belgrade central government allegedly robbed the ancient regions of Croatia, Slavonia, BiH, and, among other things, Vojvodina. Every number in that book he wrote, I repeat, Rudolf Bicanic, in 1938, so every number, every percentage of the book, was denied by the best Serbian, economic theorists who belonged to the Serbian cultural club and who published their articles in the magazine, i.e. in the list "Serbian Voice", which had a foreign exchange – a strong Serbia, a strong Yugoslavia. Anyone who wants to read the 1991 collection of texts by Miodrag Jovicic, and you will see very clearly that the most clever Serbian economic theorists actually proved not that there was no robbery by authorities in Belgrade, but rather what is today thought to be so-called. Serbia's narrowness has actually been constantly backward from the western parts of Yugoslavia. I have to remind Mr. Nenada Chanka, most of the financial capital in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was located in Zagreb. There was the seat of the first Croatian savings bank. The largest banks were in Zagreb, and if a part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia has progressed, western parts of Yugoslavia have progressed. Mr Nenad Canak incorrectly points out that centralism in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia has introduced, as he says, radicals. For the Vidovdan Constitution in 1921, the People's Radical Party voted and was voted by the Democratic Party. Of course, that Democratic Party led by Ljuba Davidovic, with whom this party bought by Dragan Djilas, of course has nothing to do with it. Mr. Nenad Canak brought up a rather dangerous thesis today. I don't know if he was fully aware of the importance and content of his words. He said, "Here I am writing it down, and it has been pointed out several times -- Serbia as a complex state." Every lawyer knows, a complex state can exist either in the form of a Federation or in the form of a confederation. Would it be good if Mr. Canak told us if he was actually in favour of Serbia's federalization? I remember when the debate on the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was held in 2008 and 2009, there we were in that Assembly in King Milan, Mr. Nenad Chank being kidnapped or really meant by a sentence that reads – if I were to ask myself, Vojvodina should have a constitution and not a Statute. It seems to me that Mr Nenad Canak has not far removed from his ideas at the time, because today he has repeatedly reiterated that modern Serbia is the only one Serbia that is complex and complex state means that it has to be composed of some parts. Those parts are federal units. If I understand Mr. Chunk correctly, he advocates the federalisation of Serbia. In that sense, Mr. Marijan Risticevic is absolutely right when he says that not only Mr. Canak, many politicians in Serbia, many politicians outside Serbia, many politicians from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, from Ljubljana, from Zagreb, from Sarajevo, from Podgorica and Skopje, see Serbia as the rest of the SFRY, and try to kidnap some of what they did not kidnap from 1945 to 1990. That was a little bit, so they're trying to kidnap more. What is also a dangerous thesis with which Mr. Nenad Canak performed today is the the the thesis that Vojvodina is constantly taking something and that she needs to return to it. Let's be completely open, Mr. Canak. You've been on the political scene a little longer than I have, but I'm not exactly that short that I don't know what's been going on in Vojvodina since 2000. For the situation in which Vojvodina was located from 2000 to 2016, the greatest responsibility lies with DS. You know very well who were the performers of the largest possible robbery of the citizens of Vojvodina and all the while talking about the need for Vojvodina to have a higher degree of autonomy and all the while worrying about the citizens of Vojvodina, such as Bojan Pajtic, such as Dusan Elezovic, such as Dragoslav Petrovic, one of the last personnel, if I am not wronged by Ante Markovic, in the province administration. Do I need to remind you, Mr. Canak, that you supported that DS, you do not, of course, bear the same degree of responsibility as they do. They're the biggest culprits, the ones who hide out today that they can't see each other anywhere and those who say it's Wolf's fault. Do you remember how many affairs were there only from 2004 until 2016, from the time Bojan Pajtic became president of the Executive Council first and later the president of the province government? The ‘Hatterland’ affair, the ‘Vojvodine Development Bank’, thousands of affairs related to the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. There is not a single clean contract that the Capital Investment Fund has concluded with anyone since it was established until the DS 2016 came down from power. You're a witness, Mr. Chanak, just like me. You know about this probably even more than I did, because you were part of the structure of the government in the AP Vojvodina, that until 2011, until 2011, the Capital Investment Fund, the companies that were given alleged subsidies, had not asked for any bank guarantees, and only since 2011, were bank guarantees sought, but only the banking guarantees of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and that is one of the reasons why the "Vojvodine Development Bank" came into the situation to be sub-supervised and eventually went into bankruptcy. You know very well, Mr. Canak, what malfeasances, the most brutal malversions are made in the Vojvodina Development Fund. Otherwise, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, who is on Twitter today, is being very smart, and he knows everything, was all that time and the president of the province's government, i.e. the Executive Council, was head of the DS for Vojvodina and was chairman of the Capital Investment Fund Management Board and was chairman of the Vojvodina Development Fund Supervisory Board. So all of the functions in the institutions where the funds were huge were actually under the hands of Bojan Pajtic and his closest associates from the DS. You, Mr. Canak, know very well, as I know, as Mr. Bajatovic knows and as many in this room know. So, the main culprit for the poor economic situation in Vojvodina is the DS and part of you, who supported it for certain day-to-day political reasons. What I'm also saying is, you were talking about how they're supposed to be from Vojvodina, the factory, I don't really know where you found that data, I'm not a professional historian, and I don't need to know everything about modern Serbian history, but I haven't found any evidence that the factories from Vojvodina were moved into the territory of the so-called Vojvodina. Serbia's rope. That's not what happened. There was a conflicting process that also those factories that existed on the territory of the Serbian border were transferred to Slovenia, Croatia, BiH or other parts of the then great Yugoslavia. You referred to the NOP traditions, you also refer to those traditions in your Resolution, where the autonomy of Vojvodina, is time-stamped in 1945, which is historically not true. So, the idea of the autonomy of Serbs in the Harsburg monarchy, not in 1945, was created much earlier, in 1848 at the May Assembly, and before that, that it would finally be implemented in 1918, when two large congregations were held. One was held in Ruma, where otherwise, and it is good to know, Aleksandar Vukic opened five factories in less than four years, in Ruma on November 24, 1918, a decision was made to join the Kingdom of Serbia directly, and on November 25th at the Grand National Assembly in Novi Sad, to join Banat, Baka and Baranja with the Kingdom of Serbia. Then there was an interesting historical phenomenon. Those who were the biggest autonomouss until then, such as Jasa Tomic, such as Dr. Zarko Miladanovic, stopped being one. Why? Because they thought the Serbian issue was resolved in the hangar monarchy, and they said, "What do we need autonomy for in our own country?" The autonomy of Serbs made sense when Serbs lived under one foreign authority, under the authority that wanted to change their nation, their faith, their cultural identity. Since 1918, Jasa Tomic, Dr. Zarko Miladanovic, has actually become advocates of a strong, unitary centralised Yugoslav state. This Dusan Boskovic, whom you mention, with all due respect, was a man who did not have much support in the people, belonged to the Peasant Democratic Coalition. It was one big hoax to the Serbian people. Due to the lack of intelligence of Svetozar Pribić, he allowed Vlatko Maček to impose himself, as a leader, not only to the Croats, but also to the Precan Serbs, which was an unforgivable mistake and Vlatko Maček is, you know very well, the one who wrote the preface in that book Rudolph Bicanic "Economy of Croatian Issues", he actually gave the legitimacy, later Anti Pavelic, when he called on the radio Zagreb on 10 April all Croatians to show loyalty to the new Ustasha government. So these are historical facts. You were talking about the People's Liberation Movement, you must know the fact that the communists wanted to federalise, not only Yugoslavia, but to federalize Serbia itself. In 1942, Josif Broz Tito, as the Supreme Command of the National Liberation Army, made the decision and ordered that Srem be part of the operational zone, under the command of the Croatian Chief Staff, commanded by Ivan Rukavin, and the political commissioner was Vladimir Bakarić and, behold, the one who was head of the temporary administration in Banat, Bacak and Baranja, was just General Ivan Rukavina, Croatia. I don't mind being a Croat, I just want to tell you that someone has systematically worked on the traditional Dukean areas of dispersion, not only when it comes to Baranja, but also when it comes to Srem, so now it turns out that it's only from Shid to Zemun. What about Vukovar, what about the Vinkovics, what about Yoko? This all joined the Kingdom of Serbia in 1918, but small intelligence, unfortunately Svetozar Pribićevic, who was otherwise a major centralist, a major unitist, etc., and then from a personal cap, because Nikola Pasic made an agreement with Stjepan Radic in 1925 with the largest Serb, and became a bigger Croat than Vlatka Pusca. As for moving the industry from Serbia, from Vojvodina to Serbia, which you were talking about, I will now read you a document I found in the Serbian Archives. I think it's good that the citizens of Serbia know that. The commander-in-chief, Yugoslav Marshal Joseph Broz Tito, on February 05, 1944, gives orders to the main staff of the National Liberation Army and the Partisan troops of Serbia and says this is an original document, you have the seal of the Serbian Archives, you have an accounting number where this document is being conducted, which is 2866. He says -- the main headquarters of the National Liberation Army of the Partisan troops of Serbia when we enter Serbia, thinking of the communists, will shoot down all the culinary and hosts, and especially all the industrialists, the property of the large-serb bourgeoisia, mainly industrial buildings and factories, will be transferred to Croatia and Slovenia. I order especially strict treatment of the Serb people who have repeatedly demonstrated the disobedience and loyalty of the monarchy that we want to eradicate. In particular, I draw attention to the comrades of Serbia's circuit committee, to act harshly and without sentiment towards their relatives and friends, as the general goal above all our emotions is to pacify comrades from Serbia's Pocajin Cominities must show greater rigour than others towards members of the Yugoslav army of the country and the Chetnik units, does not show any mercy. Death to fascism, freedom to the people. February 5, 1944, position – Commander-in-chief, Marshal of Yugoslavia. I think it's clear to the citizens of Serbia after this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-20-0.u52464	Thank you. This discussion will end today's work, right at 6:00 p.m. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00, with questions and half a list. You can answer tomorrow, I didn't extend the work. [[Session interrupted at 6:00 p.m.]]
