ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for a notice or an explanation? (Yes) The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic -- when will he explain to the public why he set out with the "Little Schengen" initiative, as it was called in public, he may have called it, when we already have a regional international organisation of CEFTA, which proved to be good, successful, until the outlaws from Kosovo and Metohija torpedoed it, so as to slowly lose their sense? What's new about "Little Schengen" we didn't have in CEFTI? If there's something new, could it really not be added to CEFTI, to preserve CEFTA? I advocate, as well as the whole Serbian Radical Party, that we have free trade with as many countries as possible, in this case with these newly-compromised states in the Balkans, because Serbia is benefiting from that, and they benefit. And when it comes to general benefit, for the greater good, then everyone should participate. But there is a very real danger here. So far, after Novi Sad and Ohrid, that so-called. "Little Schengen" reduced to three countries -- Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. By the way, we could call Serbia northern Serbia now, and it's northern Serbia, by the way, right? What do you mean, it's not? We know where southern Serbia is. These socialists don't know anything, Maya. So now the three-Montenegros are hesitant, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has no government yet, and this technical government is also hesitating. Albanians from Kosovo keep saying they are against it because they want to go to the Berlin process, they want to go directly to the European Union and NATO. Where is the great danger hiding? If we give up CEFTA and reorient to the so-called. "Little Schengen" in tangible economic benefits doesn't change much, because anything that can be realized through "Little Schengen" can also be realized through CEFTU. But the next meeting is in Durres, December 21st. Up until that deadline, Albanians from Kosovo can deny themselves, and then the Albanian prime minister can press them, as the foll presses, and they come. We are in a certain way secure in CEFTI since the prejudge of Kosovo's status, because Kosovo has acted as a UNMIK-run territory, because it has a footnote mark, so UNMIK is said to operate until a permanent solution for Kosovo is found. Now it's gone. And when an Albanian separatist delegation from Pristina appears, all the member states of the new Schengen will receive for granted their presence. What will the Serbian representative do then? What's Alexander Wolf gonna do? I don't know what he's gonna do right now, but he should explain to the public what he's gonna do. That's why I referred this question to him. What would he do if he was brought there by a representative of the Kosovo-Meto-Meto-Hian outlaw Albanians and presented them as a delegation of an independent state? He doesn't have a smart solution at his disposal. To stand up and go and sink what he has initiated himself or to squeeze his teeth and so quietly acknowledge Kosovo's independence? If Kosovo participates in the rally in Durres, without the footnote, the footnote mark, it is in the status of an independent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63382	Time. Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63383	Thank you. I ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this issue is more about two ministries -- the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture. It's an extremely important event, a historically extremely important event, which is the day when a truce was concluded in the First World War, the day that we marked not only yesterday, but which was marked in Europe and, in my opinion, and significantly broader, given the consequences of what World War I caused, given everything that relates to both geostrategic and politics and all other consequences resulting from a truly devastating war, where Serbia and the Serbian people have shown that they are loyal to the idea of freedom, that our people are exclusively free people, that we have shown through sacrifices that are not little at all how much freedom means. Over half a million reproductives died in World War I. Serbia has given great military leaders, great heroes, those who, by their lives, by their work, by their action, by their struggle, have shown by their courage that Serbia has always been on one path, which means a fight for freedom. And in this direction, the archduke of historical figures such as Stepa Stepanovic, the Duke of Traveller, the Duke of Bojovic, Zivojin Misic, has real historical significance. What is being imposed in some way is whether what the first world war means is what it means, is it in a proper, adequate and sufficient way, represented in social life? Young generations, young generations, must inherit the liquids of the First World War, of course all other Liberation Wars, and of the Second, etc., but the heritage of these fluids is not only the right but also the obligation of all of us, primarily to preserve history from the revision, from distortions of truth, that young generations through the heritage of these fluids learn and learn the true truth about folk-freedom battles, wars, victims, because these victims are not small. That is why the question is simple, and it refers to the fact that everything that has happened through these historical events is sufficient and adequate in a way that is represented in education, textbooks, culture, art? Did we give adequate meaning to something that is sacred, on the one hand, and on the other hand, something that involves preserving the history of our people? If we don't keep history, and if we don't look behind us, the way of the future won't be so easy and so simple. Our obligation, our task is to preserve history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63384	Thank you. I ask – does any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63385	Thank you. As so far, I would have certain specific questions for a part of agriculture, and now I would ask once again about cooperatives, about all the necessary things that went into cooperatives, very positive, very nice, where it started to talk about cooperatives very positively. My question to the competent ministry – when will the results be known after the competition that was announced by the competent Ministry of Cooperatives, whether those new cooperatives, whether those cooperatives of old or complicated cooperatives, because the deadline was for applying for competition on 15 August for older and newer cooperatives and was 15 September for complex cooperatives? The level of the subsidy, i.e. aid for cooperatives, was 129,000 euros for old cooperatives, 60,000 euros for new cooperatives and 500,000 euros for complex cooperatives. Since I come from a region where there is a lot of talk about cooperativeness, where our president of Serbia himself has given great support to the development of this part of Serbia for more investment, for the larger funds that will be invested there, in these districts, in these regions, such as Nisaevski, such as Toplički and other districts and as far as cooperatives are concerned, it's a really big and positive thing, the competent ministry has launched this story of cooperative where results are seen, because, without strong cooperative, I'm sure I won't have the success of developing agriculture in the right sense of being. Otherwise, since at the level of Nisavski County, Toplici County and several other districts we now have the district cooperative alliances, where there is the Southern Serbia County Association which has a very strong infrastructure, where there are over 80 and some of the cooperatives that are there, and all these cooperatives and all these cooperatives are the Secretary of the Association of the Southern Serbia County, Anita Ilic, who is in one person who has gathered these people, because she is doing the right thing for all these people, in the best way, gathering, giving information, helping with the competition. I think I heard that a few days ago, more precisely in early November, the secretary of the Southern Serbia County Cooperative Alliance resigned, unrepeated, for the reason that it suffers certain pressures from certain people who are asking for funds to be provided for them, asking for certain co-operative funds, whether it is 60,000 euros, whether it is 120,000 euros or a complicated cooperative. By the way, when I talked to the people who run these cooperatives, I talked to them, where I have information, and that there was an alarmer who applied to the police and who wanted to reveal a series of negative, criminal things about certain people involved in cooperatives. Once again my question – when will it be revealed and know who passed the competition of the competent ministry led by Minister Krkobibic and how many of these cooperatives? Finally, I am interested -- why did the Secretary of the Regional Association of South Serbia, Anita Ilic, resign, call-off, because all those people who are in these cooperatives, who formed this County Association, support this activity and support everything she has achieved, and that is to develop cooperatives. In this regard - is there any possibility of overcoming these problems, that the South Serbia County Cooperative Association continues to work in the best way, to put the ball on the ground, as it is said, normally, if there are some negative, criminal things, that the Serbian authorities check it, to work in the interest of further development of cooperatives, in the interest of the development of agriculture, because we had a period when the cooperative showed that there was no development of agriculture without it. Again, we come to the fact that some negative things are happening that reflect that bad things are happening again and that cooperatives are in a situation where what's positive turns out to be bad. I support the policy of Serbian President, I support the government's policy, because I know that cooperative is something without which there is no development of agriculture. (President: Time.) ) In addition to cooperativeship, there are normal and other things that must be helped, but once again the Association of Serbia, the South Serbia County Co-operation Alliance and all the alliances within the cooperative must work in the interest of our cooperatives, because, once again, I am interested in – will they have responsibility if there are any crimes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63386	I thank my colleague. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer the parliamentary question to Minister Djordjevic. The Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has prepared a draft Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. The public hearing ended in June of this year. However, about 50,000 Krajina fighters are dissatisfied with the current draft because my initiative is not accepted to lay down a provision in the draft law under which all members of the Republika Srpska Army will be recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. The Krajina fighters are bitter and feel that they have fought honestly and honestly for their country of Serbia, for Yugoslavia, for their people and are demanding that the injustice be corrected in the new law. There are several arguments in favor of my thesis. First, the question arises – who were the officers, the military officers of the Republika Srpska region commanded if they were recognised as a double-term military service for the entire time of the war, and their fighters were not? Also, without any environment, Croatia fully equated the rights of members of Croatia's larger defence and neighbouring BiH with the rights of members of the Croatian military, and in 1993 it brought scandalous changes to the Pension Insurance Act under which the surviving Ustashas and the natives recognised the war effort during genocide NDH when genocide was committed against the Serb people. So, the question is, will Minister Djordjevic and the competent ministry accept this application, that is, my request for the province's fighters, I repeat, to recognise the wartime period for the whole of the double-term war in the new law? I'd like to ask Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic a second question. For 15 years, Croatia has systematically violated the Vienna Agreement on Succession, in particular Annex G of this Agreement – private property and acquired rights in which it is clearly stated that all citizens and all legal entities must be returned, i.e. protected and recognised rights that they had on 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded during the war under pressures and threats must be declared void. Croatia, I repeat, systematically violates this Annex and thus refuses to return 40,000 kidnapped tenants' rights to the expelled Serbs, to pay back outstanding pensions for 50,000 Krajina pensioners, to return over 800,000 catastrian plots of kidnapped and usurped agricultural and forest land. He refuses to pay compensation for over 10,000 collapsed houses in Croatian cities in classical terrorist actions. In particular, during 1991 and 1992, he refused to recognise wartime not only during the war but even a good part of them before the war for dozens of expelled Serbs. So Croatia systematically violates the property, acquired, status rights of Serbs. I ask the question to Minister Dacic - when will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do a comprehensive report on human rights violations, half a million expelled Serbs from Croatia and a large number of other damaged citizens and translate the report into foreign languages and send all relevant international organisations and the Committee on Human Rights, the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the leading countries of the world and insist on respecting fundamental European values, and therefore human rights and rule of law in the first place? Another question to Minister Dacic is about the intention of UN-San canton and the city of Bihać to close camps for migrants and to close more than 5,000 migrants from the Bihac, Cazin, Velika Klamude, or to establish new migrant centres in the Serbian settlements of Lipa, Medeno Polje, the municipality of Bosnian Petrovac and other Serbian villages? Banished Serbs, or few Serb families, are very bitter and are looking for help to prevent the settlement of migrants from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other countries in the area. In this regard, I ask Minister Dacic – when will he send a letter to BiH's competent institutions and make it clear that it is unacceptable for migrants to move to Serb settlements in the Bosnian Petrovac municipality, to Serbian villages around Bihac, but there is danger and intent of individual power centres in Sarajevo, to move to Serb municipalities where the majority of Serbs are?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63388	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63389	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, allow me to begin my presentation with one personal impression. Namely, I had the privilege of watching the film "Djana Budisavljevic" at the "Free Zone" festival last night. What's this movie about? You all heard or should have heard about the film "Shindler's List" by Stephen Spielberg, which speaks of the death of Jews in World War II and the brave man Oscar Schindler who saved those Jews by hiring them in his factory. Today all Jews know about Schindler, for he saved about 1,200 Jews from the Second World War camp. "Djana Budisavljevic Dnevnik" is a film that also speaks of a true story and is about a woman who saved over 10,000 Serbian children in Zagreb during NDH from Ustasha camps. So it's ten times as many kids as Schindler. They say, "Save one man and save the world." She has 10,000 lives ahead of her. Unfortunately, then the new communist authorities had no ear for this work, and it remained forgotten. She returned to Insbrook, her native Insbrook in Austria, and died there in the 1970s. So the point of my address is that as a state, we'd have to repay ourselves to heroes like this and do everything we can to make sure they're not forgotten. First of all, what we need to do is inform ourselves, and I invite everyone to look at this movie. The film is usually at the Pula Festival, where the main film was "General" about Anti Gotovina, this film won both the audiences and the jury. Secondly, Dijana Budisavljevic's monument was planned in Belgrade. It has been promised to be completed in the long half of this year, and this way I refer the question to the city administration of the City of Belgrade – how far did this project take? Third, we will launch an initiative to build a bridge across the Danube near Backa Palanka, which serves as a border crossing between Serbia and Croatia, to be named after Diana Budisavljevic, because it is time to focus on the real heroes and people who bring us together and who should serve as an example to citizens in both countries. Fourthly, I appeal to the Serbian government to find and allocate funds to build a monument to Dijana Budisavljevic in Zagreb and in her hometown of Insbruk. Celebrating the victims of all totalitarian regimes, and Diana Budisavljevic thank you on behalf of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63390	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63391	Thank you. It is such a time that we have to be surprised, surprised and thanked when institutions do their jobs, and so does this institution when asking parliamentary questions works, i.e. when some of the ministries or institutions we address and when they respond to them are more or less informative, which should be pointed out and commended. With that, it should be a regular practice and a normal thing, not some exception that should be specifically spoken of here and pointed out. However, I received an answer to my previous parliamentary question from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications a few days ago, which said that the holding company Krusik Valjevo, on 23 March 2018, submitted to this ministry, so, trade, demand or authorisation for the export of weapons and military equipment of 32,000 mines, a caliber of 120 millimeters in the Republic of Armenia. The ministry says the procedure has begun under this request, to collect the necessary approvals from, I think, four competent institutions and informs me that not all necessary consent has been obtained and that they could therefore not issue a permit, or approval for the realization of the aforementioned business of holding company Krusik Valjevo. So, the permit has not been issued for reasons of non-compliance with the prescribed procedure, and the prescribed procedure implies a positive opinion, I say that I think the four ministries are responsible, i.e. three ministries and the BIA. With gratitude for this and this response, which shows the foundation of those inscriptions and suspicions and things that were mostly brought out and that we could hear in public, I repeat the question, i.e. asking for an additional question from the Ministry of Trade, but I specifically address it to the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and BIA, wanting to hear, either from the Ministry of Trade, any of these institutions, did they and with which explanation deny the authorisation to export these mines to Krusik Holding in Valjevo in 2018? The paradox is, although it is a special topic, it should be a special issue, the paradox is that only a few months later, a similar or almost identical permit was issued to a private mediator who bought these same mines, of course for less money than “Kruška” Valjevo and then resold them to Armenia. So, if there is a school example of such behaviour, non-domestic and maternal relations between the state and the institutions towards their company, the state firm, the state holding company, i.e. "Cruise", then this is what I have just cited. And with that, no matter how many stories you can dance about it, I ask very concretely and clearly, the answer to this very specific question, and then we'll move on. It's been three minutes and more, but I can't help but mention even if I don't address the address of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of my second question regarding this allegedly shouted mini Shengen and the agreement that was concluded here, signed, unsigned. What I'm curious about is what's actually signed there? Is it just about improving procedures and speeding up procedures at the border, border crossings? Which is more or less right and desirable, but then there's no need and sense to rise to this level, to which the whole story is raised, with a so-called little Schengen. If, however, it is more than that, how then, not only this Assembly, not just the MPs, but the Serbian public, actually knows nothing more about it, and I expect the president, or the prime minister, to come here to the Assembly, to tell us about it, if it is something more. With this in mind, for the Foreign Ministry, I am just finishing the statement, which is at the time in Ohrid, and the words spoken by Edi Rama, so Albania's prime minister, noting that even then, standing next to Alexander Vukic, that Serbia should recognise Albania, that it should end borders, that he is not talking about the great Albania, but is talking about eradicating borders between Albania and Kosovo. What if the president of Serbia, for example by standing next to Rama and with European officials, said he supports also favouring eradicating the border between Serbia and Republika Srpska. So, the foreign ministry's comment on this not diplomatic gesture of Rama, and of these institutions, so specifically what was signed in October, in Novi Sad, and what is being prepared in Drac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63392	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. You were presented with the minutes of the 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the First, the Second and Third Sessions of the Second Regular Session in 2019 and the minutes of the 20th, the twentieth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 July 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 123, against – none, abstention – one, of a total of 192. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 4 September 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – none, of total 144. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 9, 10, 12, 13 and 17 September 2019.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63393	I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, the abstentioned – two, voted nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the 16th Extraordinary Session. I am voting on the minutes of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 17th, 18th and 19th September 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – one, with abstention – there are no, ten MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 1st and 2nd October 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 12 MPs. I find that the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session have been adopted. I am voting on the 20th special session in the 11th session, held on 2 October 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record of the twenty-sixth special session. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, held 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 10 October 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 10 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th special session of the National Assembly in the 11th Assembly, held on 19 October 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 12 MPs. I find that the minutes of the 27th special session have been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2019, held on 22 and 23 October 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. We're moving on to the agenda. First we decide an emergency procedure. People's MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Judges be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, he proposed putting it on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by 20 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal to put on the agenda an emergency procedure for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote – one MP voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision to educate the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63394	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, nearly 15 years in the mafia Montenegro under Milo Djukanovic's regime, which established the state as his private property, is part of the discrimination against Serbs. This law is primarily, in fact, its amendments and additions are proposed to allow our countrymen from both Montenegro and Republika Srpska to exercise their right faster, to obtain citizenship under the law of the Republic of Serbia. Why is it necessary for the competent authorities and units of local self-government to process the data on which the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is issued to react much faster? In a situation where many families in Montenegro are seeking salvation from such a regime, Milo Djukanovic, who haunts Serbs, who prevents them from working in the authorities of the state administration, in any state institutions, are being expelled from work, getting fired, their children are scrambling, many of them are of course looking for salvation in the queen of Serbia and want to exercise their rights here, both from working relations and their children for schooling and remaining in Serbia, because they do not see their future there. The second thing is that we have already here for 20 and more years a special parallel relationship agreement with Republika Srpska and this law and the amendment of this article would show that Serbia really respects all the provisions of the agreement. Because Serbs from Republika Srpska who applied for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and over 50,000 demands have been filed over the past five years, many of them have waited a year and a half, two years and those who have applied for the acquisition of Serbian citizenship over the past year or a year and a half are still waiting. If they have orderly documentation, if they make a statement, as provided for by this law, that the Republic of Serbia is accepted as their country of origin, if one is originating in the Republic of Serbia, one of the parents, there is no reason at all for other Serbs living around the world that the Ministry of Interior and other bodies that need to process this documentation, and above all the security sector, because this security check is something that is common procedure, so long they delay this procedure. I will remind you again of the case of one of the politicians from the Serb ranks in Montenegro who experienced the fact that the moment they learned from the mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic that he had Serbian citizenship, he was deprived of all rights in Montenegro and he began to pursue his family. The same case was with Mayor Kotor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63395	Time, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Seselj suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on executive procedure and security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63396	Ladies and gentlemen, two months ago, the SRS handed over more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens to the National Assembly for a new draft law on executive procedure and security, and already two months ago the ruling majority in the National Assembly refused to put the issue on the agenda and thus provide full support to public executioners and their functioning in Serbia. Instead of discussing the consequences of the existence of the public enforcement institution in Serbia, what they have brought, how Serbian citizens react to it and whether they are true, these are the very consequences of the public enforcement group, the 217 of them being born into a mob clan of prey hunters, and the spoils represent housing units, properties, primarily the poorest or poorer citizens of Serbia, and are the only thing that has been directed at nothing more than kidnapping houses and apartments, taking extra-profits from a debt-trusted relationship, without any control, with the support of the justice ministry, with the support of the interior ministry, since they no longer appear anywhere without strong police security. So, this is today's situation in Serbia, and instead of discussing it, we have seen in public that even those people who have usurped some state powers, judicial powers will now be granted official status, so the punishment for attacking the perpetrator will be up to 12 years in prison. So you provide full support to the perpetrators, you're nothing different than the DS before you, you're blind to the problems of the largest number of Serbian citizens and you simply don't respect them and more than 100,000 people who signed this petition. The Serbian Radical Party is the only parliamentary party to advocate it, has collected more than 100,000 signatures. It is also the duty of the majority in the National Assembly to discuss this, and if you continue to reject this bill and to discuss this topic and to finally initiate the process of abolishing it, you will also take responsibility for all this that public perpetrators do in Serbia, and that is nothing more than robbery and kidnapping, primarily the poorest citizens of Serbia, but also others, and you will acknowledge the capitulation, the inability to deal with this problem in front of a mob cast.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63397	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63398	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, proposed amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, the SRS submitted more on 15 October 2018 with the aim of improving the standard of our agricultural producers, particularly in rural areas. Given the importance of agriculture for economic development and Serbia's progress, as well as the huge potential our country has in this area, we are proposing amendments to the Law on promotions of agriculture and rural development related to incentives in agricultural production. This proposal provides for higher amounts of money, incentives that would significantly contribute to improving the market position of our agricultural producers, and thus to the development of this branch of economy. Article 1 The draft law also amends Article 15(4). The law on incentives for agriculture and rural development by providing for an increase in milk premiums from seven dinars per litre of milk to at least 10 dinars per litre. Article 2 Proposal for a law in Article 18(1) The law on incentives for agriculture and rural development changes the amount of basic incentives for plant production by providing that the amount of incentives per hectare can amount to up to 6,000 dinars, changing the solution to which the amount of incentives per hectare can be at least 9,000 dinars. This proposal would significantly improve the position of agricultural producers as this would significantly reduce the cost of production, thus creating the possibility of expanding investment investments in the expansion of production. I just want to add that subsidies in countries in the environment are significantly higher than Serbia, because in Serbia there are about 35 euros, while in the surrounding countries there are between 500 and 900 euros per hectare, while in Serbia, I say, unfortunately, it is only 35 euros. The rural part of Serbia is slowly extinctiond, as statistics tell us that more than 1,000 villages have less than 100 inhabitants, while 200 inhabited places have no person under 20 years old, and the average agricultural producer is somewhere between 60 and 65 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63399	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63400	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal to supplement the agenda refers to the Law on psychoactive and controlled substances, where I asked for the addition of two members. The first to read - if the period between the withdrawal and destruction of those psychoactive substances that are not for further use is longer than six months, then a mandatory re-covering of the whole quantity is carried out, and then a qualitative chemical analysis is carried out. The second member is – the period between the confiscation and destruction of these substances cannot be longer than six months, all of this for reasons to avoid and prevent or reduce various abuses. I will be persistent, perhaps not enough and convincing in running for this topic and I must express my satisfaction that a dozen colleagues last time on my left recognized the importance of this topic, which they recognized was neither politics nor politics, nor ideology, nor populism, but human health, its greatest value and achievement. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot more drugs on the streets of our cities than we think, and especially alarming that the limit for consumption is getting lower. I'll tell you one of my cases from ten days ago on Prince Michael's street in the direction of Calemegdan, I walked with my friends, in front of us two beautiful girls like dolls, aged not more than 13-14 years, striking behavior turned our attention to both us and the passerby, and suddenly one turns around and silences passersby as a white horse's rider. At the moment, we were caught, confused, and later we realized that they were under the influence of narcotics. Dear colleagues, fighting drugs is the most important battle of humanity in the 21st century. I'm speaking globally here, and it's local. Drugs must not be a matter where they react to the case, but rather requires a well-designed and planned campaign where there can be no jumping out or improvising, as it happens to be at the police's tip, that they are in a particular location for the police of interesting persons, say at a club, a bar, a restaurant, and when the police with machines, on the ready, come to the scene, the ones for which the whole action has been launched, they have already evaporated, but are safe, which speaks for themselves enough. We've had cases where the police, not only support drug users, are actively involved. We also have the Zajcar case, when the father and son who were dealing with the resales were arrested.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63401	Thank you. I'm putting this point to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled a proposal to put an end to the agenda of this assembly's amendments and the addition of the Law on textbooks. It's not necessary to emphasize how important the textbooks are, because the first serious thing in our life that we met was those textbooks, starting with the barrels, and so on. For many, what they learned in elementary school has been etched for life, and these attitudes through the protocol of time do not change anything significantly. First of all, here I mean textbooks that process national history and national culture. We don't even have textbooks today that process, say, Serbian folk songs, Kosovo, post-cos and other cycles, and these songs have been preserved through generations of centuries, passed down from knee to knee, at a time when people were functionally illiterate, and today when we don't have illiterate in our society, when information technology has reached the level that it now has, there is a risk of losing some of these things. Not only that, from the history textbook, we have a situation that some facts appear absolutely wrong and that, worst of all, is wrong to the harm of the Serbian people and to the harm of our country. This could be understood when it comes to the textbooks they publish, let's say, textbooks from our neighbouring countries, but let's say the textbooks issued by the state of Serbia, that is, textbooks that are an official means for our students to find such a thing in them truly scandalous. This is no wonder to me, for today every textbook writes books, betrays every one and every one of them. We in the SRS, we're not in favour of a single publishing house having a monopoly, even if it's a state-sponsored house, but we still feel order must be introduced in this area. Today, the main word is taken by publishers from Croatia, Slovenia and, of course, it is all under the auspices of Germany and therefore it is no wonder that the situation in this area is what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63403	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -17, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be completed by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on road safety. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted another bill with the idea of putting myself on the agenda of this Assembly and I must say that I have become literally degutant to explain this law at every session, the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, because there is one thing that doesn't need any money, things that don't require any great effort. Simply, you just have to look at the law and remove some of the elemental illogicalities that stand there. Although this government, which we must admit, must be aware of, opens the roads, works on it, they've done a lot and there's no dispute there, but this road safety thing certainly doesn't work for them. We have an opportunity to read that the amendments to that law are being prepared, but it's where we're talking about increasing speed on the highways. Come on, that's a thing I don't want to get into, but first of all, what I've been looking for with my previous additions to the agenda and what I'm about to do now is regulate traffic at intersections. A member of the law that regulates the passing championship at intersections is unarranged, and because of this indeterminateness, we often have the opportunity to have car accidents happen, and what is worst cannot be precisely and certainly determine who was a vinic and car accident. Traffic experts treat this matter in one way, give one of their interpretations, law experts treat it in another way, and disputes of this kind have been dragging on for years, sometimes for a decade, and it cannot be determined who is the winemaker of a car accident. That's why I think we need to put this item on the agenda, correct this illogicality here, because there's no need for money or anything. So this isn't about miles of highways, tunnels and everything else, but just a few sentences change or reshape them to make things clearer in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63405	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63406	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the representatives of the regime are full of mouth stories about the protection of the family, about increasing birthrights, about protecting children's rights, and basically you don't do any of this or what you do, you do it in a cataract way. You can't talk about the protection of children's rights, the fight against drugs, the fight against juvenile prostitution when you let a parent not have the right to exercise insight into, say, a 14-year-old child's medical records, instead of being prescribed that the doctor is obliged to call the parents if the underage child comes alone, or you've brought such regulations that the parent can't carry out an insight and monitor the condition of his child so he can't know whether the child is being drugged, or if any minor girl has performed an abortion, etc. So, to really do something about what you're saying in the media, it's basically a change of family law and a few other laws, but it's family law that needs to change the most. We even think it would be good to pass a whole new Family Law that will really take care of both family and children. You've gone a little too far in these European ways and to the extent that even in serious European countries, you don't apply some of the principles that you've accepted. Serbia must also return to the traditional family and traditional education and traditional education in order to really restore moral qualities to social life and to our country. For more than a year, we have been initiating this one member of the amendments to family law because we wanted to prevent children, only children, or very few children from getting adopted by strangers because we still have no control over what happens to these children, whether they are used there in the begging chain, white slavery. Who knows what's going on with those kids, and you don't even want to discuss that bill. So, we just initiated it so that you might eventually accept this debate, and then we could definitely go through the amendments and through the new text and we could talk about a new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63407	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the obligation of all of us Members of the People's Parliament, and most notably the MPs of the assembly's majority, is to restore dignity to the National Assembly. This is only possible if the Law on the Source of People's MPs returns the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party from whose list he was elected as MP. We've been right since October 15th last year, so there's been plenty of time and we've been a long way from the regular elections, when we started with that initiative, but it just doesn't reach your senses. You are waiting for these delinquent European officials to come and everything they tell you to accept it, and what the most serious political party on Serbia's political scene tells you, you don't even want to hear it. That's why we have problems today at the National Assembly. We'll have them in the future if you don't accept that we're discussing and deciding in the end to decide this proposal. We have come up with this proposal in such a way that it does not even question the constitutional court's unconstitutional decision, which has put a parliamentary mandate at its disposal. Let it remain for you, too, so that we do not now get involved in some unnecessary story, but the question is whether there would be a normal political party and whether there would be normal leadership of political parties that would allow themselves to have someone on the lists who is not ready to put their mandate at their disposal in advance. It is only moral and it is only in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we have MPs who have changed four or five political parties in this mandate alone. You know, it's not done because of ideas, or ideology, or any belief. That's what you do for a store. The sale of the mandate has become the most serious trade, and it is one of the most serious types of corruption that has been destroying Serbia for more than ten years. What is happening in the last few is really something that raises the question of the National Assembly as an institution. You know, you've come to the list of one political party and everything that has been invested in the mandate of each of us, and the political parties have invested a lot of resources and energy and activists in the mandate of each of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63409	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on placing out of force of the Labour Act. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslava Stanković-Đuričić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63410	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submitted a bill on amendments and additions to the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia. Each year, the Republic of Serbia loses 35,000 to 38,000 people, and if this continues in 40 years, we will have nearly 3,000,000 people less. Today, about 100,000 children are born less than in the 1950s. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have problems with infertility, we come to the fact that the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act is extremely important, and the problem of birth is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who go through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary medical documentation to get to the trial commission. As someone who went through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood and that they feel lonely and helpless. It should achieve that diagnostics are simple, fast and accessible, which is absolutely not the case right now. It is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess the individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate the issue of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Then increase the number of funded BMPO attempts by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, as well as enable the process of frozen mates having a problem of male infertility, as well as couples that have frozen healthy material before entering the malignancy treatment process. Also, to enable the financing of costs to the Republic Health Insurance Fund for freezing and freezing materials. Enable BMPO and those couples that have already been made available as parents either by natural means or by out-of-body fertilisation. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if they wanted more children and if the only way to get back together as parents is to have BMPO, and there are few such couples? This right is, among other things, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 63. This problem is very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and solved. I suggest you support this proposal to amend the law because of an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63411	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. He's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to put aside the law on enforcement and security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63412	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the modern state, states with developed democracy have a clearly defined division of power, such as legislative, executive and judicial, and in some period it was expressed in Serbia, too. Since 2011, however, the principle has been violated. Just when counterpart Dragan Jovanovic thought he was one of the first to introduce a public-private partnership, I must inform him that it was the Boris Tadic regime, the first to introduce a public-private partnership, where the executive power was a partner to public executioners, in a people known as private perpetrators. If you ask who's asking public executioners? The answer is Minister of Justice, no matter who he was. Then you can see clearly how much authority has been drawn from the court and transferred to private entrepreneurs. That, of course, is not good. Some colleagues believe that the electoral system of courts, in Serbia, is not good, and how will you say about this now when an individual has the authority to choose people, private entrepreneurs, who will exercise public authority? That's very scary. I can understand people from the executive authority who are a little estranged from the people. They, you know, have drivers, have cars. He may rarely meet with those who have very serious and daily problems, but dear fellow MPs, I cannot understand you. What we in the SRS see and hear, I'd say sad stories, every day, I'm fully convinced that you come up with such knowledge, and most often you don't do anything to solve these problems. You're familiar with the headlines in the paper, and we always find an example that we present to you in the context of this bill's explanation, Grandpa in charge, the grandchild's apartment sold to settle, a woman with cancer was thrown out of the apartment by a military invalid, young parents with a baby, etc., and recently says, 30 days ago, a woman with cancer savagely kicked out of her apartment. Of the excessive and suffering stress and advanced illness, unfortunately, that woman, her name is Susan Ali, died. She had a place of residence in Danube Key number 30. So these are the very truths that you should deal with. For nothing is the Women's Parliamentary Network, here are very often struck by women. They're a waste of NGOs. When we say NGOs, we mean those who work solely against the interest of the Serbian state. They don't care about these problems. Serbia has not come to such a situation that only as opposition MPs, SRS MPs want this problem resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63413	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention to vote—13 against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63414	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are more than 1,000 patients waiting for organ transplants in Serbia, and we are at the beginning when it comes to organ transplants. The number of organs missing and we have only three donors per million inhabitants. When it comes to kidney transplants in Serbia, which is 780 patients. In order to increase the number of donors, it must first work to promote donations, restore trust in the health system and restore trust between patients and doctors, or with a positive campaign. However, in order to achieve this, the Law on human organ transplants and the applicable Law on the transplantation of human organs must be amended, so-called. ‘proposed consent’. In fact, this law stipulates that transplant authorities are taken from the deceased unless that person objected orally or in writing before he died, so unless he contacted the Biomedicine Authority. In this way, there is no guarantee that at that moment that person will transmit the information whether he wants to be a donor or not. We've proposed to amend the so-called "resect" of the so-called "resect" of the so-called "resect." The assumed consent of every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia, because the rightly assumed consent leaves a large space for abuse and can, although the law prohibits and is charged as a criminal offence, lead to trafficking in human organs. Also, a member of the 23rd Law, whose amendment we have proposed, has been violated by members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, members of 23rd and 25th. We insist on abolishing the assumed consent, or we demand the amendment of the anti-constitutional member 23 on human organ transplants. We believe that donation must be an expression of our free will, not a legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63415	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63416	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders, which are separated from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, were defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the AP KIM borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, I have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 1244, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not speak of any division or demarcation. That's the attitude of all Serbs with KIM. This team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. There should therefore be no compromise on state territory, while other topics can be discussed with Albanians. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 1244 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that by adopting this law that I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63417	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - ten MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63418	Thank you. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children to be completed on the agenda. The Republic of Serbia has been facing major demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people leaving the country have been reported, so the share of the old population in the total population has been greatly increased. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse, so a large number of families face a lack of funding, which directly reflects the birth and raising of children. In view of this fact, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial situation of families with children and to provide security in terms of giving state to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Financial Support Act with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. As regards the financial resources needed to implement this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus finally stop funding various NGOs and define that money for the payment of child and parental allowances, as the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create the basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We witness the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia. Young people leave, young married couples with small children. Those who leave will surely never return. But all efforts need to be made to keep those who are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63419	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1918. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. This proposal was not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. This proposal was not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Company "Such Insurance", Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63420	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all other state bodies involved in activities or lobbying, as it is said more often in this Assembly, that Ghana withdraws recognition so-called. An independent Kosovo. I think it is a great success of this government, and I hope that both MPs and Parliament Speakers have contributed little while meeting with Parliament Speaker Ghana's delegation. Secondly, I would like to inform this Assembly that two meetings were held in two rural villages last weekend. First, on Saturday, November 9th, the Association of Cossacks of Serbia was founded in the village of Kumane near New Vienna. It is one of the few national associations in the area of agriculture, excluding the Union of beekeeping organisations of Serbia's SPOS. I think the farmers finally realized they had to self-organize to protect their interests. The following day, on Sunday, November 10th, in the village of Kutlovo, between Kragujevac and Gornji Milanovac, otherwise the settlement belongs to the territory of the town of Kragujevac, a founding assembly of the National Movement "I Love My Village" was held. The farmers realized that the arm of another person’s itch was not scratching and that they had to respect that people’s sentiment – they were also pecking to protect their social, economic and civil interests. That was basic information, and now let me get back to the subject of supplementing the agenda. I think it's really high time, given that not a single assembly of municipalities and cities in Serbia, of 136, has unanimously passed the Declaration on genetically modified organisms, that this Assembly, in accordance with the interest and express will of most local self-government, adopts the text of the Declaration against Imports, Breeding, Processing and Plasmas of genetically modified organisms in Serbia. Here it is manipulated very often, and also in public, that there is a Law on genetically modified organisms. Yes, it exists and it applies to these issues, but we also have other intensities that exist in this country, to allow the import and transport of GMOs, both organisms and genetically modified foods, as defined recently in the Food Safety Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63421	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the production of arms and military equipment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63422	Thank you. As I said last time, I proposed this proposal in the form of an amendment when amendments and additions to this Law on the Production and Transport of Weapons were adopted, when there were no agendas or these affairs, or why the whole topic is now being followed with special attention. The meaning of my amendment at the time, and the current proposal to amend and supplement the Law is quite clear and simple and only seems radical at first sight. In fact, the intensity is that, given the importance of this entire sector, the whole of this branch, the purpose or, it would sometimes be, the military industry, simply cannot treat it as any other type of production or any other kind of traffic and trade, and because of the delicateness of the product, in quotes, and of course because of interested parties to come to these products, plus the possibility of corruption, plus the possibility of abuse of different species, and what has been said lately in public. So that we don't discuss who's right, who's guilty, who's who he did who he didn't do, who's whose cousin, who's whose dad, who's whose brother or friend, I suggested these changes and supplements, but it's interesting that this was proposed a year ago when none of this was on the agenda, that in this sector, this area of arms is abolished, or limit, I suggest even more radically, abolish, foreign property and foreign participation, and, on the other hand, privatisation, that this remains a state-owned business in state jurisdiction, because then there wouldn't be what we're looking at right now, and there's a lot more, only a few things have come out in public, that state-owned, state-owned, state-owned, state-owned, for instance. Krusik requests permission to export one of its products, e.g. Mines, and they don't get that license from the competent ministries, and then a private company comes in and buys mines from that same "Krusik" and exports them because they got the license. So that we don't go and watch how it happened, why it happened, let's just end private intermediaries in this area. I say, there are enough opportunities that they can show their trade spirit and their ability, not necessarily in this important topic. We have a state-owned producer, we have a state-owned firm and a state-owned mediator, the SDPR, who sells it and mediates it. This "Kruik" and these factories have their own commercial and the ability to sell directly, there is also a state mediator. Why do we need that privatization, except as some kind of a small door opens a space for possible malfeasance? This isn't a proposal for these affairs, but these last affairs have set an example of why such a law...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63423	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63424	This is why I'm going to do it for a while, because I have to admit my colleague on the left hand side just a little while was very well explained this proposal. So it's also something that I've also warned at the time of the adoption of this Law on the transplantation of human organs and tissues that this item, this measure, implies dissension or the assumption of dissent to donor will not give the desired and expected result. That's what just happened. According to official data, the number of donors is smaller than it was before until the law was passed because such a measure, on the one hand, is unconstitutional, illegal, immoral, unethical and undemocratic. So, both legal and theoretically, it is difficult to defend, and it has not achieved the goal that was expected, because it has caused a public disturbance, now perhaps even those who would otherwise be inclined to meet, i.e. essentially to meet the human gesture, have now received some kind of vision or some kind of doubt about what is behind it. So, I think that a much better, smarter and more meaningful one serious campaign is held here and there in public in favour of donorship, and that this measure, this one and the illegal and unconstitutional and unethical and theoretically and philosophically indefensible principle of default or tacit consent, is abolished. I don't care who, I don't expect this majority to support my proposal now, but I'm simply suggesting that we get here multiple times, we've come up with proposals to pass some law, so it's very quick to adopt a new one, so its changes and additions, to propose this amendment as their own proposal, and to throw this out in view of the importance of organ donation, and I'd say in a normal way, and not like this again, which raises doubts about the motives of the promoter, and as I said, it doesn't even work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63425	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice" committed in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63426	This is what I talked about last time, and I'm not going to explain with that pietate that should normally be followed. I must admit I'm surprised, regardless of how things work here, that the ruling majority and some other colleagues have heard about this proposal to set up a survey board to determine the facts regarding Oliver Ivanovic's murder. For countless reasons, I would say the obvious reasons for this initiative should come precisely from representatives of the ruling coalition. Just given the importance of Mr Oliver Ivanovic for both political life and for the people living in the north of KIM, for his role there, in defending that space, at the end of the day, the role now recognised by the ruling coalition, so in recent months he has been speaking with the debt pietate about Oliver Ivanovic, which was not always the case, which was mainly not the case while he was alive. Regardless of the change in attitude towards dead Oliver, the political reasons, I say again, and the moral reasons why they put it, that is to say, that you colleagues and respected colleagues from the ruling majority put it on the agenda and support my initiative. Of course, that the survey board says that someone has doubts about what he can't determine, but it would be a clear message, a desirable message and a state, and then, of course, a representative of the government, that not only are they not involved, as they claim not to be involved in this murder, but also that they want this murder to be lit up, and not like this to remain ice and doubting the motives of this crime, but also the motives of the authorities who seem to have some problem with the most transparent way that murder is a terrible, shameful murder lit up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63427	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. This proposal was not accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, broadcasting of cross-border channels, broadcasting of domestic ads in the content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no longer necessary to prove in particular that Dragan Solak and Dragan Gilas registered 20 cross-border channels fictitiously in Luxembourg over which, on the one hand, they pump out a subscription from users from the Republic of Serbia and thus export about 500m euros annually from Serbia. On the one hand, these channels serve to pump money, and on the other hand, it's a media club that needs to act against the government, but it essentially works against the state. This media club should intimidate the executive authority and the National Assembly and REM that they must not at any time suspect in Gilas and Šolakov an illegal business based on black-based channels of pirates, and to repeat, pump money, it is the first task, and in my opinion, they can broadcast a program of whatever they want, even against the authorities, but against the state a little harder. So, the other night, Yugoslavia Ćosic broadcast a special show with Kurti under the Albanian flag. So under the Albanian flag, Mr. Cosic, director of alleged N1 television, which is not registered, but owner of a private company. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as a confirmation of this media club that acts against the state, and I have nothing against what acts against ruling parties, is the fact that Yugoslavia Cosic has won 250 000 euros on his private firm from Albania, my dear counterparts, Jugoslav Cosic. Black on white, from the US embassy he won in 25 million dinars and some thousands of dinars, over 200,000 euros, received $47,000. All in all, Jugoslav Ćosic, along with a connected face from his private firm, to which money, called "K context", is a key link with Albania, received money for consulting services such as Vuk Jeremic. What he advised them on business, we can assume, like they did yesterday, they arrested with ammunition. In total, he raised with the connected face of S.C, his face, 444 thousand euros plus 62,000, 510,000 euros, 335 thousand pounds, $147, and 38 million. All in all, love for Britain, America and Albania against the state of Serbia has been charged, when we turn it into euro, with a million and 400,000 euros, as Yugoslavia's Cosic has won at the private firm "K Connect" to act against the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63429	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 23 MPs voted in favour. I find that no proposal has been accepted. An Ana Karadzic suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a proposal for a decision on the education of the commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63430	Honored presidents, respected MPs, respected Serbian citizens, have been 20 years since NATO's aggression, to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, 20 years from the fact that it was bombed without a UN Security Council decision, contrary to international law. During the war, over 2,000 civilians died from the NATO Pact, more than 6,000 civilians were injured, more than 2,700 of whom were children. We don't have a final list of the names and last names of the victims of this NATO aggression today. This way, I would ask fellow MPs to support this addition to the agenda, to form a committee that would investigate and determine the exact number of NATO victims by name and last name. In 2000, some who had no interest in this data came to power and allowed NATO to call aggression both NATO intervention and NATO action, etc. For this reason, I repeatedly repeat NATO aggression, because this crime, the act of NATO, cannot be otherwise called either by intervention or by action, but only by aggression, in which many innocent people and children were killed. It is not enough for us that our friends from Europe say that it was a big mistake and tragedy and that they are taking weddings on an anniversary, but we are asking that a commission be formed this way to determine the exact number of victims, names and last names. Let us remember that the target civilian targets, RTS, train at the Grdelička Klisura, a column of Albanian refugees at Djakovica, etc. The fact is that illegal ammunition with impoverished uranium has been used, which is why today we have a large number of people who have had malignancies. NATO aggression is a crime against peace, we are obliged to know who those who have lost their lives during NATO aggression are also obliged to record fighters who have defended both health homes, schools, bridges, hospitals, but also those civilians who have innocently suffered, women, children, men, grandparents. We owe it to generations to come and we shouldn't leave this burden to our children. For this reason, I ask fellow MPs to support this proposal to form a commission and finally determine what number of victims suffered from NATO aggression in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63431	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92, Article 2(2). Paragraphs 170 and 192, 3 and 157 respectively. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Documents, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement amending the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Internal Security of the United States on the Promotion of Co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and combating illegal migration, the Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union Agency for Co-operation in the implementation of the Law on the Encouraging of Liaison Officers, the Proposal of the Treaty on the Presidents of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on Emergency of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria, the President-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General for Economic-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General of the-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General-General- I'll put this proposal to the vote if the motionor doesn't want a word. I conclude the vote: for -141, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 18 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure on proposals for supplementing the agenda, I would like to put the proposal on the table for the agenda as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 142, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement amending the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Interior on the improvement of co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union Agency for Co-operation in the Implementation of the Law on the Reference of Liaison Officers 5. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the replacement and use of driving licences 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation in the area of protection against natural and caused disasters 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation States on Emergency Assistance and Emergency Response to Natural Caused Tragedies and the Supplemental Protocol with the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation States on Emergency Assistance and Emergency Response to Natural and Caused disaster 8. List of candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission 9. List of candidates for three members of the Competition Protection Council 10. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Commission for Papers of the value of 11. Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, please the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister and his associates from the MUP attend the session today. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 157 and 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint, principled and unique search of points 1 to 7 of the agenda. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63432	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today and in the coming days, we will discuss the set of laws in the field of internal affairs, above all the amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents, as well as the laws on the validation of several international agreements. The travel documents law was passed in 2007 and the latest changes were in 2014. The changes we have prepared today and offered to adopt the National Assembly are the result of monitoring the application of the law and considering the possibility of making it easier and more effective for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to exercise their rights. The proposed solutions are part of reforms conducted by the Serbian government aimed at simplifying administrative procedures, saving time and money and achieving higher quality in Serbia's citizens' standards. Amendments and additions to this law allow citizens, if they are in need or wish to apply for a new passport, to be issued six months before the expiry of the previously issued passport. This is particularly significant in the case of travel to countries whose legislation as a condition for entering the country requires a certain period of validity of passports. In addition, given the diversity of living situations and the need for citizens, the bill provides for the possibility to submit requests before the deadline mentioned and for more than six months. One of the important newspapers envisioned by this law is the dispensation of citizens with regard to public advertising of a travel document that has been declared invalid. The solution to advertising an invalid travel document in the Official Messenger is leaving so far, is already being advertised on the MUP website, and in this way citizens are being released from the costs they have had so far. In addition, wording is required with the Criminal Procedure Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Law on the Recording and Processing of Data in Internal Affairs, which governs the keeping of records in the MUP in a single manner, as well as the exchange of the same data. I would like to present to you, in a few words, the international agreements on the agenda today, the draft legislation on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Internal Security on the improvement of co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration. This memorandum of understanding implies improving co-operation to prevent terrorist travel, combating illegal migration. Its primary goal is to fight terrorism. Serious terrorist attacks such as those in the United States, in the Russian Federation, Madrid, London, Brussels and Paris, as well as in many places around the world show that terrorism today is a serious and direct threat to global security from which no country, no region, will be spared, nor can they successfully meet this kind of challenge without mutual co-operation. Therefore, international co-operation in the fight against terrorism must allow for a quick and efficient exchange of information. Therefore, in addition to the Interpol-Europol standard channels, it is necessary for countries to have direct and direct communication in the form of data exchanges, as provided for by law. In order to fight terrorism, the Republic of Serbia successfully co-operates with a large number of countries in the world. We have agreements in the fight against terrorism with almost all EU member states, and the Russian Federation has been negotiated and we expect soon to sign with this country. The memorandum allows for the exchange of biometric data of security-interested persons, the identification of a person, including nationality, whether he has an immigrant status or a travel history that can indicate whether the person is involved or involved in terrorist activities. Co-operation will enable the prevention of terrorist travel and other threats to national security, effective application and enforcement of migration rules and the making of appropriate decisions on the requirements for the achievement of privileges for immigrants, including asylum requirements or recognition of refugee status. A concrete example that will best point to the importance of this memorandum is the migrant crisis. This memo will allow the MUP to verify, in the event of a potential migration wave, a larger one, so like the one we had in 2015, the biometric data of every person passing through our country and compared to the data found in American records. That way, we'll know if a person was involved in war conflicts or from before in connection with terrorist activities. It is clear that the above will directly affect the improvement of the security of the Republic of Serbia, because at that moment we will have additional information on persons who are potentially passing through our country. We also have a proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the replacement and use of driving licences. This agreement was signed in Tunisia on 11 March 2019 and allows our citizens, whose residence is in Tunisia, to replace the valid driving license of the Republic of Serbia for a Tunisian driving licence for all categories of vehicles, without prior laying down a theoretical and practical part of the exam, which is to address an important issue for our citizens in their daily lives, especially for professional drivers and those whose profession is related to the management of motor vehicles. The same privilege is naturally guaranteed to Tunisian citizens. Also, by way of effect of this law, that is, the agreement and its application constitute a direct financial advantage for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have their residence in Tunisia because they are deprived of the financial costs associated with passing driver's exams. Also, a bill amending the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office. There are two agreements before you today concerning the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and Europol. First of all, a few words about amending the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office. The basic agreement was signed in Belgrade in 2014 and came into force in June 2014, and this bill ratifys the amendment of the first annex of the agreement relating to the area of crime falling within the Europe mandate, covering serious crimes that threaten two or more Member States of the European Union, terrorism and forms of crime that threaten the common interest covered by Union policy. To this end, the agreement, which was concluded with exchanges of letters, on 30 November 2018, and the provisional application of the Agreement amending the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, until the entry into force and the fact-finding mandate of Europe is linked to criminal acts against the financial interests of the EU, trade on the basis of privileged information and manipulation of financial, market and genocide, crime against humanity, war crimes and so on. Also, the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU Agency for Co-operation in the Implementation of the Law on Liaison Officers and, in fact, one way to improve the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia, that is, our police and Europe, is to refer to each other as liaison officers, whose action will enable a more efficient and faster fight against organised crime. This Agreement is signed by the exchange of texts of the Agreement, in March 2019 and 8 April 2019. This operational strategic co-operation will also enable EU member states and third parties, hence to the operational strategic partners of Europol, based on this type of agreement. We have sent a liaison officer to Europe in March 2017, who, in fact, contributes daily in terms of improving the coordination approach in the work of law enforcement bodies with other liaison officers from other countries in the seat of Europol. By confirming this agreement, besides having better and more effective co-operation with Europe and allowing us to exchange more efficient data on serious and organised crime and in other forms of crime and theoretically on our territory, as well as other countries in our environment, which could help the security of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, it will meet the relevant commitments Serbia has made in negotiating chapters 23 and 24. We also have a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation States on Co-operation in Emergency Assistance and Emergency Response to Natural Caused Tragedies and the Additional Protocol in the CES State Agreement on Co-operation in Emergency Assistance and Emergency Response to Natural Caused Tragedies. This is one of the important segments of the work of the MUP, especially in view of the fact that, as the years go by and the climate conditions change, natural caused disasters are increasingly happening everywhere in the world, and mutual co-operation in this framework is very important in order to strengthen our country's response capacities, as well as the possibility of other countries being involved. Also, an agreement that is before you in fact allowing that, it was concluded in Sochi, the Russian Federation in 1998, came into effect in 2003. We joined this agreement in 2016. This sets out the principles of mutual provision of assistance, the procedure for sending requests, exchanges of information, competent authorities, contact points for co-operation and the fact that the task force for emergency situations co-ordinates, manages and provides assistance in emergency situations. Then, the procedure for crossing the border, the rules for staying teams providing assistance, export-importing transit equipment and assistance in good damage compensation, as well as the exchange of personal data. This supplemental protocol regulates the establishment of network liaison officers, its objectives, organisation, network operation, tasks, functions of liaison officers, defines status, and, in this way, we have a legal basis for establishing a network within the PSES and in this way, we in fact strengthen the work of our Emergency Sector. Also, in terms of protecting the population from emergency situations and confirming the agreement between the Government of our country and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on co-operation in the area of protection against natural and other disasters. It was signed in Belgrade on 25 July 2019, with the goal of contributing to the consolidation of ties with the Republic of Bulgaria in the area of emergency co-operation. Also, it will contribute to the affirmation of bilateral co-operation between our two countries, legal and technical arrangements to provide assistance, enable contact with representatives of the two countries' competent services. In the event of emergency situations that call for assistance outside our country, cooperation with neighbouring countries has special significance in view of the uniformity of the threat, the proximity and the possibility of providing mutual assistance as soon as possible, and in the case of Bulgaria and the similarity of the language, and in fact enables easier coordination. Signed agreements with countries in the region are of great importance because they regulate the planning and implementation of flood protection measures, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, navigation accidents, radiological dangers, as well as industrial and other disasters. One of the most important segments of the agreement is the procedure for crossing the state border, since the speed of arrival of rescue teams in the country is affected by disaster, as well as the reference of humanitarian aid of crucial importance. Rescue teams, individuals participating in rescue and rescue, cross the state border of the Contracting Parties as a priority and in a simplified procedure at or outside the border crossing, on the basis of the consent of the Border Service Authority. Therefore, the application of this agreement will raise the level of security of our country and will make it easier for our firefighters and people involved in the rescue in every emergency situation. These are the laws, respected presidents of the National Assembly, which are before us today from the field of internal affairs. We are ready to discuss their adoption with the honourable Members of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63433	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) The first to report from authorized groups, the Vladan Zagravian.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63434	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, friends and comrades, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a set of draft laws in the field of internal affairs, and I will look back at several proposed laws and amendments to the laws that I find extremely important. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Documents, which we are discussing today, introduces several papers that deserve attention and will certainly contribute to better functioning of the Ministry of the Interior and better protection and more effective exercise of citizens' rights. For the sake of reminders, the Law on travel documents was adopted in 2007, and with the issue of biometric documents, i.e. travel documents as we use today, began in mid-2008. At that time, among the first in Europe and the world, we introduced a fingerprint into the passport, although according to European Union directives, the Member States were obliged to do so by 2017. The introduction of biometric passports at that time was one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, and given the fact that the old passports were valid until 2011, it is clear why the lines on police service counters were untransparent. However, the good organisation of the interior ministry led by Ivica Dacic and by correcting any shortcomings that the new system was wearing, the crowds were significantly reduced. This year expires 10 years after the issue of biometric travel documents, resulting in a re-enlarged number of passport requirements. What is important is to point out that the continuity of good work and good organisation of the Ministry of Interior continue and the ministry of Heavenly Stefanovic. In addition to the fact that only in the first half of 2019, close to 500,000 new documents were issued. In order to reduce the crowds and allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to exercise their rights uninterruptedly, from April of this year, the interior ministry has allowed citizens to apply for travel documents and Sundays. Also, new application counters have been opened, and with the possibility of a schedule via eGovernment, a significant reduction in waiting time has been contributed. Amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents that we are discussing today are currently following the pace of efficiency of the work of the MUP, or at the same time will help citizens of the Republic of Serbia to reach their travel documents uninterrupted and within a short time. The minimum period established from six months to the date of expiry of the passport is an optimal period for citizens to receive their travel document in time, which will not be limited in the performance of their own private and business obligations, given the requirements of individual countries on the need for a travel document to be valid for three or six months. Other solutions provided for by these amendments and supplements are also very good, especially a provision that provides for citizens to disburse the costs of advertising an invalid travel document in the "Official Messenger". From now on, this will be done on the Ministry's website, absolutely free of charge and we welcome it. You will allow me to refer to a provision that I consider extremely important, which is a provision relating to the issue of passports to a minor. Although the conditions are more precise now, there is still a need to be careful in these cases, especially with the consent of another parent. We had almost an example of a mother's struggle to bring back her children, whom the father without permission and despite a court ruling took to Turkey, and then fled to Iran. Thanks to the engagement and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic and President Aleksandar Vukic, children are finally returned to their mother after several years. So we need to be much more careful when it comes to issuing a passport to a minor. It is a convenient opportunity to point out that by looking at certain indices of value and passport power, the Serbian passport is among the world's first 40. Given that we're a small country, it's a great success for us. The importance of the Serbian passport also speaks of the fact that Serbia is one of the few countries whose citizens can travel to Europe and Russia and China without a visa. The Serbian government has done a great job in recent years. By signing an agreement with many countries, we were able to enable citizens of Serbia to travel to 131 countries without visas. The agenda includes two draft laws that regulate the relations of the Republic of Serbia, or the Serbian police and the European Police Service, Europol. Taking into account the fact that the fight against organised crime and terrorism is at the top of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS parliamentary group and I personally believe that it is of utmost importance that the laws that will raise to a higher level of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European organisation are present. Europe is the largest police association in Europe with which the MUP has operational co-operation and puts Serbian police in line with colleagues from all EU countries. Given that the basis of the fight against all forms of crime within the European Union, co-operation between Member States' police, but also those who have not yet, was necessary for Serbia to demonstrate its readiness and meet the requirements for achieving police co-operation with all EU Member States. As we know, the Republic of Serbia signed a strategic agreement with Europol in 2008 and has since worked intensively to establish mechanisms and technical details to deepen this co-operation, which was achieved in 2014, when the operational agreement was signed and this way co-operation between the European and Serbian police has raised to an even higher level. This enabled better co-operation and exchange of operational data related to the fight against terrorism and organised crime, with respect and respect for the need for the security of police communication, as well as respect and protection of personal data, given that exchanges are the most common personal data of citizens. The interior ministry has thus shown that the European police's reliable partner is in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and international crime, as well as countries in the region, which is extremely significant, especially because the European Commission has put an emphasis in its Western Balkans Strategy on co-operation of countries in the region to combat crime and protect borders. Also, co-operation with the MUP with Europol and European police structures is a positive contribution to Serbia's European integration, as negotiating chapter 24 refers to creating a space of justice, freedom and security. And not only that, Serbia, like all its citizens, are undoubtedly safer because of this co-operation, because we have become part of a large system that challenges all when it comes to citizens' security, solves with close co-operation and exchange of information. In the previous period, only had the opportunity to see numerous police actions at the international level involving Serbian police. The Ministry of Combating Organized Crime of the MUP was engaged in breaking international migrant smuggling groups, then in exposing international smuggling and drug trafficking, breaking international networks of human trafficking and cyber crime. In the fight against international terrorism, police officers and anti-terrorism and extremism services of Serbia provide a significant contribution, and this is very important, given that terrorism is the biggest threat to collective international security. All of this suggests that Serbia has reached a level with its capacities and results that allows it to be an integral part of different communication channels and operational actions that Europol is carrying out with other EU member states. So Serbia is no doubt becoming safer thanks to police work and all institutions that are in the security system, and by co-operation in the area of security, both at regional and especially international level, the Republic of Serbia strengthens its position as a significant factor, stability in the region and a reliable partner in international relations. I'll leave room for my fellow MPs to talk about the other draft laws that are on the agenda. For all of this, I stress that the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposals of the law in this area in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63435	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63436	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished ministers with associates, is the most interesting subject of the amendments and the addition of the Law on travel documents, is my esteemed colleague said a lot, but there are still a few things that need to be considered from a slightly different angle when it comes to amending and supplementing this law. What I must point out is my satisfaction with these changes and additions that only complement one functional behaviour and work of the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to protecting the interests of our citizens, and primarily when it comes to the protection of underage children. Namely, when we talk about issuing travel documents to minors, I cannot agree that over what is already foreseen by these legal changes, we should introduce some additional measures when it comes to issuing passports to a minor without the consent of another parent. In fact, through years of practice, we have had the situation that, precisely, a parent who has not been entrusted with custody by blackmailing and driving his consent to a parent whose underage child has been entrusted with custody, custody, care and care as the Law on Family Relations says, in order to obtain a travel document and blackmail various concessions, and among other things, the concessions had to be to sign that other parent's consent that children with him could go abroad which, in certain situations, could have been ensured by giving passports to a minor without the consent of another parent would reduce the risk, even such situations that occurred when children were recently returned from Iran. I know this has got one huge publicity, but that's just a reason for one more due attention. I must commend the period during which Mr. Stefanovic led this ministry, which is the behaviour of our workers at the border crossings when underage children leave the Republic of Serbia, whether by road, whether by rail, whether by air traffic, and I am really saying this on the basis of the information they have received from the people who have experienced it. So, without all the necessary consent, even when a child not entrusted to custody is a child, but spouses live together with that child without the consent of another parent, members of the Ministry of the Interior have not allowed their duty to leave the Republic of Serbia without written consent, even such a minor child. This is the practical and pragmatic part that by 2014 was not so practical, so it happened that grandparents and acquaintances led a minor work outside the Republic of Serbia, of course, mostly with the consent of parents, but without these formal matters prescribed by the law. What was observed in 2014 on this point that this part too was much more respected and much more taken into account. It is these very provisions concerning Article 23. The Law on travel documents, it seems to me to be one right measure to exclude only the discretionary authority of the Ministry of the Interior, but to respect the decisions of the competent authorities, which is the court or centre of social work when he decides on custody when the child is concerned, means that on the basis of their decisions, their previous work, so to say, their checks and their decisions on which the Ministry of the Interior, in principle, is obliged to rely and accept them in principle with the predisposition that they are accurate and good judgments, issues free travel to a minor child in order to travel abroad. There have been very frequent situations that other parents to whom the child is not entrusted, blackmailing whether the child will be able to take summers, to winters, whether or not he will even go abroad for treatment. I don't want to talk too much about these ugly things and that I might be giving an idea and a topic of thinking about something that we don't want to happen in practice ourselves, but I think that respect for the current legal provisions has shown that the Ministry of the Interior is doing its job in this segment in the way that the law prescribes it and how it is expected. This will simply enable us to have a more relaxed and secure way of getting a travel document and easier in the extreme case of children, because sometimes, you have to admit, the days are also important whether a child will get a travel permit for treatment, and for vacations more or less in life, and even if it is missed, it is not so bad, but because of some other things it is important that these provisions are as they are conceived and accepted. This is what the Ministry reacts very well to the practice that is in life. It is one of the fact that we Serbs are very resourceful when it comes to circumventing the legal rules, however well they were written. What I see in this bill of law is one reaction directly linked to the path of Articles 23, 27 and 33 of the basic law. I really think it's high time that those who, for their own personal interests, were practically deliberately destroying passports, enough to throw it into the washing machine or tear it up and say it was damaged, could take out new travel documents. Now, practically, it will lose every interest to do such a thing, because a travel document according to these changes that are predicted to a person who does not handle his passport carefully loses more travel documents over a period of five years, if I remember correctly here, a new travel document can be issued, but only within a year. Why was this happening? It happened to us precisely because of this change that you have proposed, which is that the passport can be issued six months before the deadline, is related to the journey of our citizens. It wasn't always about being just a whim or self-will, but sometimes our citizens were forced to resort to things that weren't quite appropriate for travel. What's good is that you left space in basic Article 33 so that at the request of a new passport a new passport can be issued before this time period of six months. The fact is that in practice, we have a situation where individual countries issue visas to our citizens, especially in the case of a longer stay, it is precisely the condition of obtaining visas for a year or two, so it can come to a situation where one of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is limited to achieving their rights. I suppose and believe that this particular provision has been left for the situation to be assessed, with appropriate documentation and discretion from the Ministry of the Interior, by assessing this relevant documentation which is the person other than the passport to be returned, which is valid and correct, that it may be invalidated and that he may receive a new passport and thus exercise his right to do so. This is one part that's more restrictive, it's left behind, and I think it's also perfectly reflected and placed, just in the mold of those limits that are appropriate to the needs of citizens, and to prevent any possibility of abuse. Another important thing in all of this is the provision of Article 39, which is that the facts that they can and should be the reason why no new travel document or extension of the travel document should be issued to any person, and now they can practically do so, other than the state authorities and the courts, and the parties that are interested in it. I wouldn't list all the situations that might be interesting here, but if a public document, meaning, a court decision or any other state body that is sufficient and necessary for the MUP to come to some extent to create reasons for not being granted a new travel document, it doesn't matter whether they arrive in a regular post office that sometimes takes a few days, even in an emergency, or if such an original document with these evidence has arrived from a party interested in that part of the job so that the Ministry has the conditions and possibilities, of course, with an ex post check which is expected by the authority who issued that permit and does what his duty is in such a situation. I can only say that the PG Movement of Socialists, People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will also support this bill and these agreements behind which the MUP stands, which are now in the predominantly and on the agenda and to support you in the effort to see, through practice, what is seen and seen as some kind of interference on a timely basis, as well as these proposals that are appropriate, to the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, easily translate into legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63437	Thank you. National MP Predrag Jelenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63438	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, as regards the set of laws at today's session, I would like to say something about the amendment and additions to the Law on Travel Documents. Namely, the proposed amendments and additions to this law are prescribed, it can be said, three segments, namely: more precise deadlines when it comes to applying for new passports, then more specifically procedures for the handling of the competent authority and at the end of the obligation and opportunities for the citizens of Serbia. One of the newspapers that the bill also envisions is the dispensation of citizens in cases where it is necessary to announce a travel document that has been declared invalid. For the public's sake, I'd like to single out a few members, first of all, Article 4. Proposal for a law where amendments and additions are made to Article 27 are made. The law adds that a request for the issue of passports may be submitted at the earliest six months before the expiry of the passport issued, while Article 6. The bill is amended in Article 29(2) of the basic text of the law, which provides for conditions in a different way, as is the case under which it is possible to issue travel documents to a minor without the consent of another parent. In the end, Article 12. The draft law in Article 41 of the basic text of the law shall be subject to procedural harmonisation, i.e. compliance with the Code of Criminal Procedure when the court is competent to order the defendant to return the travel document if he has an urgent need, e.g. to travel abroad. Today we have a few agreements to confirm, one of which I would like to draw from, and that is to amend the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office. I think that for the sake of the public, there is something more to be said about Europe in order to explain a little better what it means and to make the citizens realize how important this organisation is. When it comes to Europe, this EU criminal intelligence agency has achieved significant results in curbing criminal activities, such as, above all, trafficking in human beings, cyber crime, intellectual property crime, money laundering, asset tracking, etc. The founding of Europe was agreed in 1992, with a contract from Mastricht, which came into force in November 1993. Europal is a multidisciplinary agency, which is not only made up by ordinary police officers, but also by officials of other security services, customs, immigration services, border and financial police, etc. Why it is important to be in the organisation, because there are three levels of co-operation in Europe itself. The first is technical cooperation or so on. training. The next level is strategic co-operation aimed at monitoring organised crime, and the highest level of co-operation includes the exchange of personal data, which requires compliance with European standards on data protection and security. His mission is primarily to increase the efficiency and co-operation between the country's police authorities and to make a significant contribution to the EU's security effort in fighting organised crime. In this connection, confirming this agreement, which is on today's agenda, allows for its entry into force to contribute to the consolidation and strengthening of co-operation with Europe when it comes to combating terrorism and cutting off the funding flows of criminal activities. Another bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Bulgaria on co-operation in the area of protection against natural and caused disasters. The agreement envisions a general framework of co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the area of prevention, preparation and response to disasters. In addition, this agreement provides for conditions and procedures for providing assistance on the basis of available resources from the parties themselves, i.e. countries that sign. As the public knows, in recent years natural disasters have become more serious and more common amid growing climate change. That is why it is necessary to do everything, at least to repair the damage and make the lives of the citizens of this country as safe as possible. For example, in this Agreement, based on the national legislation of both parties, Article 4 sets out the level of co-operation in the form of exchange of information, technical documentation, video, photo material, etc. There is, of course, the organisation and maintenance of joint expert meetings, workshops, conferences and exercises, etc. Depends on the side that's interested in this area. Article 5, which provides for the obligation of mutual information on dangers and potential disasters, which may endanger the other party's country with the necessary data and information, as well as by sending rescue teams to each other in order to be more efficient and as brief as possible time of disaster control. We had a recent example of a fire on the old mountain. Finally, the agreement between the governments of the Black Sea Co-operation States. This agreement is confirmed to further extend the already developed regional co-operation to cover assistance in the event of emergency situations and joint efforts on the security plan, i.e. co-ordinated assistance to both parties. In practice, this agreement is confirmed because of the inability for states to remove the existence of emergency situations with their own forces and their own resources. The Parties shall cooperate in accordance with the provisions and recognised international rules and principles in order to provide rapid and relevant information and assistance in the event of natural and caused disasters. So, for example. Article 5 points out that, on the request of a party seeking assistance, the government of the transit State shall provide all necessary support during the passage of assistance through the territory of that State in accordance with national legislation, international law and international practice. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63439	Thank you. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63440	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the MUP, respected ministers Mr. Stefanovic, respected citizens of Serbia, fame and never forget our brave fighters and ancestors, heroes of World War I. At the very beginning, and with great satisfaction, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the work of the MUP, headed by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, and that all proposed laws on the agenda of the Assembly's decision will support, that the JS parliamentary group will vote on how to amend and supplement that. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, as well as all agreements and memos which are on the agenda. Because of the citizens of Serbia who are following today's session of the assembly session, I will also note the individual proposals, and I will explain each of these proposals. Why do we in the JS consider the adoption, first of all, of the law and the urgent adoption of the Law on travel documents as well as the proposed agreements, and that all these proposed laws, agreements and memoranda are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in particular? When we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel document, it is a matter that is variable, which is living matter, which is often changed according to the needs and alignment both with other countries and to agree with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and is always in line with the state and national interests of our country and our citizens, precisely because our policy, is open to the world. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents is attached. Serbia made a decision ten years ago, i.e. the Law on the introduction of biometric passports, so that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia who submitted a request, his existing passport or unless he had a passport was replaced by a new biometric passport. As it is known that in the previous period, the Republic of Serbia has concluded a number of visa relaxation agreements with countries around the world and that according to the "Passport Index" portal, the Republic of Serbia is a 28th place in the world which is very important when we look after the rankings of the other and much larger states that have signed and which, I say, introduce this visa-free system, so we hope that in the previous period, the Republic of Serbia with an even greater number of countries will conclude an agreement that citizens of the Republic of Serbia and these countries can travel without visa applications. As regards the Law on travel documents, when we talk about the reasons for its adoption, it should first of all be noted that the Law on travel documents was adopted in 2007, and that the last changes he suffered were in 2014. Simply, there is a flow of time and matter that needs to be brought into line and changed with existing and new laws, but on the other hand there are also problems that are both practical and financial, as well as in a technical sense seen and where this matter and these norms should be adapted to the existing system in the Republic of Serbia. Also, here we have framework deadlines which are now good, where it is defined and prescribed that it is three to six months, or six months, but since there are countries that take care of the expiry of the passport period, another possibility is given that, in the case, or exception to the rules, in the case of justified reasons with a special explanation, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia may also submit requests and, within a longer period of six months, replace the existing passport. Also, the amendments and additions to this law, which may be very important, and what I particularly want to stress is that it is good in this law, is the issue of passports and especially accounting when it comes to children. The data is the possibility that even one parent may, under justified conditions or the approval of the competent authority, apply for the issue of passports to children, if justified. On the other hand, take care of the safety of children, which we had in the X case a situation where one of the parents took advantage of the situation and illegally took the children across the border of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the Law on travel documents will limit the possibility of applying for new passports, without undue need, before this deadline, thus disbursing itself where local self-government units in the sectors of the Ministry of Interior, unnecessary crowds. Also, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who submit a request before this deadline will have to compensate for higher financial costs by explaining the early submission of requests and replacements and obtaining passports. Also, in financial terms, there is another discharge, which is that when a passport, so far a passport that has been advertised invalid, fell on the burden of the financial citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because there was an obligation to be declared in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Here we now have another change that citizens no longer pay this cost and that advertising an invalid passport is on the website of the MUP. As for the Law on Travel Documents, I said that in 2017 he has undergone significant changes, and we here at the National Assembly in 2018 have passed the Law on Records and Data Processing in Internal Affairs, which is systematically regulated, to say, the issue of records, data processing and their exchange at national and interstate level. This is very important because now applicants have also had to obtain documents on their own so far, whether these are copies from the MKR, married, or depending on what is needed for the passport or for the ID card, now, according to official duty, the members of the MUP, and not only when it comes to data in the interior, but also data that can be obtained from abroad. So, through these electronic networks and electronic data connection. In this regard, it is constantly working to exclude from the specific laws provisions governing this matter, which is also done by these amendments. So the JS parliamentary group will give full support when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. So, all JS MPs, headed by our President Dragan Markovic Palm, will support the Law on Travel Documents. On the other hand, we have agreements and a memorandum. What I particularly want to highlight is the reputation and importance of the Republic of Serbia, but also the smooth journey of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both in the ordinary and diplomatic passports. The JS delegation, led by Mr Dragan Markovic Palm, the president of the JS, has only traveled to Europe and the world in the last year and important state meetings where they were present in the delegation, to say, both political and economic meetings, we have been welcomed everywhere at a high level, which is the sighting and friendship of other countries towards the Republic of Serbia, but from all these meetings we have indeed brought benefits to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or what would be said to be national – every meeting has been a fruit. Also, when foreign citizens, particularly diplomatic representatives, come to Serbia, a completely different picture of Serbia we represent is also being, such as the Turkish delegation last week in the National Assembly, hosted by Dragan Markovic Palma, received by the president of the Maya Gojkovic National Assembly, on a high level, and all of these are very important interstate relations. One of the indicators is continued work on the foreign policy, which is very important that the state, or Ghana, has withdrawn Kosovo's recognition, which is the 16th country that has withdrawn recognition in the last two years. Before Ghana, the recognition was withdrawn two months ago by the state of Togo, so it is a continuous work of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the President of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Ivica Dacic, then all of us in the National Assembly, headed by the National Assembly, where we all contribute to leaving the best picture to all guests, diplomatic representatives and committees that come to us, most of the MPs, i.e. All MPs are members of certain parliamentary groups of friendships with some of the states and we believe that Ghana, that this work to withdraw recognition of the independent state of Kosovo, in the previous year and a half, has been working on it, but it is very important that it will affect other countries, given that the most people in this part of the world is because it has about 29 million inhabitants. A withdrawal from another state has been announced, which will withdraw Kosovo's recognition by the end of the year. When it comes to the Agreement on the Review of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation States on Co-operation in providing assistance in emergency situations and emergency response to natural and caused disasters, it will certainly support this Agreement as well. The agreement was signed for the first time in 1998, but Serbia joined 2016, and then Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic signed an additional protocol, so we will definitely support this agreement that will regulate Serbia's relationship in providing emergency and emergency assistance. We also have a discussion of the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on driving licences, where our citizens can replace the driver's license in Tunisia, as well as their citizens in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been authorized by the Interior Ministry, while for the government of the Republic of Tunisia, the Technical Agency for Road Traffic, so this is very important. This Agreement shall be valid for five years following our confirmation, with the possibility of re-signing this Agreement. We also have an agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, also a very important agreement. It was signed in May 2017 and here we have, when it comes to the interest of our country, in accessing information of the EU's pre-accession interest, trade on the basis of privileged information and manipulation of the financial market, so that this European Interior Office is one of the important offices, and international co-operation of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and other EU member states is very important. We have a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Bulgaria in the area of co-operation against natural and caused disasters. It is certainly very important to support this law, given that it is a country in the environment, where very often the Republic of Serbia or Bulgaria cannot react in natural disasters or disasters that are sometimes caused by the human hand or by the human part, so that they are able to react without an additional deadline and thus to prevent catastrophic consequences. We have a Memorandum of Understanding with the US on Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the US Ministry of Internal Security on improving co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration. I think this law is very clear to everyone why we're signing it, given the increased number of migrants. But what is significant for us from the United Serbia, and especially for the Ministry of the Interior, is that something that is good and your work, the honourable ministers, as well as your entire team at the Ministry of the Interior, we really want to give a special commendation and we want to support your work. We have supported all the laws so far, we will certainly support these agreements, as well as the Memorandum, but it is particularly commendable that the Ministry of the Interior in the previous period really justified the overall trust, as you, of course, have been given to you. Great technical equipment and major investment in the internal affairs sector should be discussed. You are only on the territory of Rasinski, Rasinski County, from where I am an MP and where I come from in the previous year, literally restored, renovated, even some, to say, your ministry financed it, a large number of police stations or police administrations, then, a very significant training of police personnel and, more importantly, a different approach of police officers to citizens, because citizens should not fear at any time, whether it is a traffic policeman, means, it is a completely different approach, more peaceful, that they are really in the interest and in terms of the security of citizens. So, the Republic of Serbia is now a safer country for the lives of citizens, a safer country for the lives of citizens and a stable country for the lives of citizens. But what's most important is that you've done a lot when it comes to the safety of our children, when it comes to cyber crime, that there's a lot of work to combat crime, kidnapping children, what we've had in the past ten days, where as a parent, I really can't stay, there's no kidnapping and the disappearance of children, your urgent reaction, and our children's protection from drug dealers, to say, drug dealers and other crime. It is perhaps what I would single out and most significant in the domain of the MUP, which you have done in just the past year, and all in the interest of the citizens. So, once again, I will point out that JS MP Dragan Markovic Palma and all JS MPs will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63441	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, if necessary. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63442	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Ministers, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have one set of legislative proposals and only a fleeting insight into the proposed, or adopted agenda can draw at least three important conclusions. First, that all today's legislative proposals are in place, i.e. to create some new partnerships and expand the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with various countries in the world, but also to expand regional co-operation. Secondly, that all the legal proposals that are before us today are in the role of fighting corruption, crime and international terrorism. Third, that all today's legal proposals are in the function of improving the state's digital service and in general bringing public administration closer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there we can talk about other side effects. First of all, this is about, let me say, the zealous work of the Ministry of the Interior, because the laws themselves are from the domain of the Ministry of the Interior. Why is this of paramount importance to us, SNS MPs? In fact, what is significant for every political structure and what is most important from the point of view of a common citizen and an ordinary voter is that this same political structure performs the tasks it has promised when entering the most important state functions. In fact, if we are already talking about this first conclusion which I was talking about at the beginning, it is clear, and as far as international co-operation and the expansion of regional co-operation is concerned, and I will remind you that, in June 2017, the Prime Minister, somewhere in June 2017, seems to me, on Vidovdan 2017, in his exposé, as a priority at the very beginning of his exposé, set the principle of expanding the partnership in the world and expanding regional co-operation. I think these laws are right on this path, on this trail, and on this principle, which then became the Prime Minister. The prime minister stressed then that she would also rely on the serious and large state experience of the President of the Republic, but also on the reputation it enjoys in the world. The time before that and the events before that, but also the events after that will prove that this was her expectation and how it was founded. Confirmation of this is, if you will, both today and yesterday's events in Paris, but all the important political events that took place last week in northern Macedonia. It could be clearly established from all these political events that Serbia has been returned to a place that it has historically belonged to, that Serbia has become a very reliable partner, desirable for co-operation with all, but also a partner who recognises itself for keeping its independence in making the most important decisions concerning the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that all this is the result of the policy that has been led since 2012, i.e. in 2014 by the President of the State of Aleksandar Vukic. What other than progress, to say, in relations with the most important countries in the world and the development of regional co-operation, what else are these laws that are before us today? They are primarily the result of serious work and raising the reputation of the interior ministry. It is certain that no serious international police organisation, if you will, any single security or police structure of any country will conclude any agreements or any memorandum with a police organisation that does not enjoy a serious reputation in international relations. A reputation for international relations is not something to be gained by good words or good desires. A reputation is something that comes with work and results. If we were to talk about the Home Office's results, I'm sure I wouldn't have enough time to say all that is a serious and significant result of the Home Office. I'll just say some, and my SNS colleagues will definitely argue further. In Serbia, more than 87% of the murders have been solved in the past five years. It is something that is truly respectful and is more than in many other developed European countries. Also, the number of murders in Serbia in the past period has been about two to three times smaller than it was, say, at the beginning of the two thousand years. In previous years, at least 10 murders have been solved in the Republic of Serbia that are decades old and decades old, and some murders have been solved since 1996 and 1998. In the first six months of this year, we haven't had a single mob murder in Serbia. To make it clear to you what I'm talking about, I'm only going to tell you that in 2000, 2001 and 2002 the number of murders was 212, 215 and 189 per year. From that, the number so-called. The mob murders were over 90. In the first six months of this year, we haven't had any so-called. Mafia murder, and that's what the interior ministry's reputation is built on, but if, after all, you will end up with the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in international relations. However, respected ministers, despite all these results, in addition to all the unquestionably efforts you have made to improve the material status of police members, I would point out one special one that restores the reputation of the Serbian police. In 2019, more than 180 people who are family members were employed in the Ministry of the Interior system, and primarily children of killed police officers. Believe me, from the point of view of the ordinary man, it is something that is most important and perhaps to the greatest extent that it restores the reputation of the Serbian police and among the citizens, but also among the employees of the police. The members of the family of those who put their lives in the defense of this country, when it was most needed. Just like that, I say, it returns that reputation to the police, the Ministry of the Interior, in the end, and to the Republic of Serbia. If we are talking about this other principle that I was talking about at the beginning, which is, above all, in the post of co-operation with countries in the world and the region, and above all in the field of the fight against crime, corruption and terrorism, then surely these laws, or agreements concerning co-operation with the European Police Office, then the Memorandum signed with the United States Ministry of Internal Security, but also the Memorandum with the European Law enforcement Agency, are just another contribution to this overall fight against terrorism, but what we all have seen right away is that Serbia is also in these agreements and how it has kept its own, let me say, independence in making the most important decisions. An example of this is probably also this Memorandum with the United States Ministry, where in all these chapters and sections you can find such provisions, including in Chapter 4, Chapter 12, Chapter 14, 16. etc. So, in addition to all these contributions, to say the common objectives, the importance of preserving and applying Serbian legislation in individual cases is stressed. As far as this third principle is concerned, which I have talked about and improved the state's digital services and is certainly visible above all in this travel documents law. In addition to all those newspapers that you, Ministers, have listed as important when it comes to amending the Law on travel documents, it is noticeable that from now on, every citizen who loses his travel papers or in any way remains without it will not have to advertise it in the Official Messenger, on his own expense, as it has been so far. The procedure is much faster. From now on, it will be advertised on the Ministry of the Interior's website and the cost of citizens will be reduced and the process itself will be accelerated. Since all these laws and since they all contribute to the modernisation of the interior ministry and the better reputation of the Serbian police, they also contribute to the achievement of those basic principles of the programme declared by the government during its election in this respected home and since everyone agrees with that policy, whose initiator today's President of the Republic of Serbia has been since 2012, and in 2014, we SNS MPs will support all these legislative proposals in the voting day, and the same will certainly be with all other legal proposals coming into this respected home, and they are also in the role of modernising the state, but also improving the lives of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63443	Thank you. Do any of the other authorities want a word? The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were struck by a single news flash from the clear sky and one announcement from the president of the Republic, which is that in future Serbia will insist on establishing something called the Balkan Union, Little Schengen, or Schengen for the poor. That's what was first announced in Novi Sad, and we saw it on Ohrid. So, there is an alternative to something that has so far been the process of Eurointegration, i.e. Serbia's EU accession, an alternative to the so-called The Balkan Union, and as positive circumstances for Serbia, states that we will now be able to travel with ID cards to those countries of the so-called Western Balkans, whatever that means, and that is a euphemism for these Balkan countries that are destined and destined to stay on the European periphery forever, never to become members of the EU, but that their governments are required to irrevocably meet all the requirements that come from the EU in those countries. Then we saw a restriction on our potential exports to the Russian Federation, so we saw comments when Serbia and Serbia's military should arm themselves under favourable conditions of arms and combat systems produced in the Russian Federation, and in return we have nothing, we only have an eternal story of membership that lasts since 2000. We heard first in 2005, it was after the Thessaloniki summit, and then we heard in 2007, so the former coalition partner of this government, Mladjan Dinkic, announced in 2012 that he would raise a ramp on Horgos together with the citizens of Serbia, then in 2020, then in 2025, and now with ridicule, it is seen by some of the highest officials of this government who were directed to Serbia in 2025 as a full member of the EU, but that is why we will have the Balkan Union. So, something that should represent our encouragement, a consolation prize for 19 years of a vain process of European integration, and I will remind you, on that path Serbia had to meet so-called. The obligations of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, to send military and political summits to The Hague, to be greatly humiliated in this way, to agree to this and all the conditions that were for the implementation of the referendum in Montenegro, where the referendum after the theft and Montenegro declared independence and now became from one historic Serbian state an enemy state, where Serbs are in a subordinate position, where they violate all civil and human rights, it came from the EU, it is our European fluid. After that, of course in 2008, Kosovo's declaration of independence. The Eulexa mission in Kosovo aimed at creating Kosovo institutions at the heart of what was a UN mission and everything else step by step, Bork's agreements, Brussels agreements, a step by step towards rounding Kosovo's statehood towards losing Serbia's sovereignty due to European integration. We had statements from President Vukic that he said only at one point that Serbia wanted to sign the so-called. A legally binding agreement with Kosovo, but that Serbia is guaranteed EU membership by 2025. We were so ready to go because of that imaginary road trip to the EU. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia signed an agreement from Prespa that changed Macedonia's name from the former Yugoslav Republic to northern Macedonia, and this was to open negotiations, to open the door to potential negotiations between Macedonia and the EU on membership. There was a ramp not a month after that, and it was all for nothing. So, we have seen that European integration has no perspective, that EU enlargement does not exist, that what Johannes Han, Tanja Fajon, this or that bureaucrat who comes to Belgrade, praises our progress and praises our reforms really has nothing to do with reality, nor does it have to do with the future of our membership negotiations, and as if we do not know that the condition of all conditions is recognition of Kosovo's independence, that in return we are offered that the independent republic of Kosovo recognises Serbia and that is all we can get from it. There's another, of course, big problem and a scandal that happened last year at KIM when it was so-called. The Kosovo government introduced 100% customs on goods coming from Central Serbia and BiH. Now we're building a Balkan union, making little Schengen even though we have a CEFTA contract that has some mechanisms that we could stand up to these taxes. So we didn't take advantage of anything. We moaned, we didn't like that they put customs on. Yes, customs are aimed at the Serb community that lives on KIM. Customs are aimed at making it difficult for the survival of the Serb community and the Serb people living on KIM. The government of the Republic of Serbia has done nothing about it, except complain about some of the European bureaucrats who have already been directed to Serbia to round up Kosovo's statehood as soon as possible, and now we are building a Balkan Union. What's the logic? We'll get it to travel without a passport. We can go to Beh and Montenegro without passports now. One member of the former regime, if I am not mistaken, signed an agreement in 2011 as a member of the government, former Mr. Minister Ivica Dacic, yes, and in Macedonia as well, with a ID card. What do we get now? We got this to enable the placement of Albanian agricultural products on the Serbian market. What does that mean? After the German standard, after the Swiss pensions, after we are leaders in the region by all economic parameters from the DUING business list to the list of building permits to this, to that, we are now so strong that we need to help our neighborhood too to strengthen them. I guess we should watch what we're going to do with our agricultural products, where we're going to place them, not take care of what happens to any neighbouring country? And given that Albania's Prime Minister Edi Rama has once again called on Serbia to recognise Kosovo's independence, so he first embarrassed Serbia when he did it in Belgrade, thus not stopping and talking about the perspective of our Balkan relations only through the recognition of Kosovo by Serbia, and we are now making little Schengen. There was no announcement of that. It was not any of the pre-election promises, but only when we saw that there was no perspective of Serbia's EU membership, so then we got little Schengen, the Balkan Union and all those integration processes for the Western Balkans. So Serbia's only strategic decision could be in this direction to give up EU membership, from the integration process and turning as close as possible to Serbia's co-operation with the Russian Federation, with our traditional historical and most important ally on the international agenda, with which we are fortunate to co-operate without political conditions through Serbia's integration into the Euro-Asian Economic Community and the ODKB. It can only be an alternative to this devastating policy of European integration, not the Balkan Union and little Schengen. The Balkan Union is another colourful lie that represents nothing, not Serbia's economic future. Surely Serbia is the most dominant economic force in our European suburbs in the region, and are we so strong and better than others that now it takes little of us and others to help. It's a complete failure. So the sooner we figure out some of these facts, the better we'll be in the future. We've had that when we're talking about these agreements, police agreements, that's what we're talking about. related to the MUP, there is one thing that is no doubt due to the Serbian government, which is that the so-called Kosovo did not become a member of Interpol. Kosovo did not receive the required majority of votes for Interpol membership, we celebrated it here, marked a special TV programme on the issue and the team on the occasion, praises, press conferences, whatnot, a great success. It is a success, but are you aware that if Serbia signed a legally binding agreement with the so-called Kosovo, which would open the door to membership in the UN and in Interpol and UNESCO, Kosovo would enter for automation, there would no longer be a vote in those congregations because they are UN-sponsored bodies. So, if we want to preserve our sovereignty, territorial integrity, that's probably what everyone supports, everyone responsible in Serbia should support it, we cannot go to negotiations on a legally binding agreement with Kosovo at the same time. Either one or the other, or Kosovo that is not in Interpol, or independent Kosovo. If something was to be a comforting reward for Serbia, an EU membership that no longer exists, is the Balkan Union important enough for us to take this step towards Kosovo? These are really unserious things that our government should reject, and the president of Serbia, instead of the placement of Albanian tomatoes, should deal with the placement of Serbian agricultural products. An agreement with the United States, as you know, of course no government has raised the issue since 2000, charges for the bombing, for more than 100 billion dollars of material damage, more than 2,500 killed in the campaign, in this aggression, but every time we have some at the level of bilateral meetings, some meetings between our and American officials, from those at the lowest level, such as Palmer, whom we have seen now cheer and dress on the political scene in Serbia, wondering whether the pro-Western parties will go to elections, what conditions the government will make for the electoral process, to those of the largest, such as President of America or Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the question of killing the Genesis Brothers. So, Albanian terrorists with American citizenship who were killed after being released from custody, that's what Serbia is accused of, and that's an insurmountable obstacle to our otherwise brilliant Serbian-American relations. We have also reached an agreement recently on the non-exhaustion of this prosecution and the SRS which has submitted to the Constitutional Court a proposal to make a statement, to give an opinion on it, given that we do not consider it constitutional, but the Constitutional Court, in business, as well as when it was a question of the Brussels agreements, which are absolutely against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has also not been published, but we know what the Constitutional Court's silence means. Then we have on all our tormented statements by the head of the KIM office, Mark Djuric, who is talking about the future Pristina government in which, according to Albin Kurti's announcements, the Serb list will not participate, as something contrary to Kosovo's constitution. So, a Serbian government official deals with Kosovo's constitution, by the separatist government in Pristina. That's the absurd thing we've brought in now, as far as that question is concerned. We are free of anything, free of any agreement, any cooperation if we know the ultimate intentions of those countries that will always use us this way because we are still in love with the EU. We can't figure it out. The Serbian Progressive Party, which spoke in a campaign on Resolution 1244, on the protection of Kosovo, that it should already raise the issue of returning Serbian police and military to 1,000 troops to Kosovo, since 2012 there has been no more talk, is now talking about Kosovo's constitution. That's why through little Shengen we're signing that now we'll be able to go without passports to Albania. It's in the process. We have not controlled the border between Serbia and Albania for 20 years and since the EU and so on. The international community formed a republic of Kosovo, today from Albania and Kosovo there is a completely free flow of people, without any restrictions, and through little Schengen, through the Balkan Union we will now give an opportunity for Albanians, except for Kosovo, to enter without passports into central Serbia. So, instead of Serbia should insist through the institutions of the international community, to respect Resolution 1244, the only valid Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija and the UN Security Council, instead we turned to the free flow of Albanians into central Serbia. It's something that really needs to be concerned about anyone who should represent a responsible government official and a responsible government, wondering if that's exactly the best way to preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Especially since we have something that really needs to be undeniable, which is the success of Serbian diplomacy in this process, so-called. withdrawing recognition of Kosovo's independence. The Republic of Ghana is a 16-nation country that has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence, but the question remains, if we continue in this direction and are ready for the future and for whatever reason we sign this legally binding agreement, does, once Kosovo becomes a member of the UN, what will it mean to us that all 16 countries have withdrawn recognition of independence, if Kosovo becomes a member of the UN, it will automatically be considered that every sovereign free country, which is a member of the UN, has recognised Kosovo's independence and recognised the Republic of Kosovo as an independent state? So, this government, the ruling party's policy, the policy of this coalition is contradictory to itself and this shows these announcements about the formation of so-called. Balkan Union. This is not the right way, the only way is to work together with our friendly countries, which, fortunately, are the most economically powerful in the world, with BRIKS countries, with the People's Republic of China, with the Russian Federation, with those who are not directed to hunt prey in Serbia, sell out i.e. They see Serbia as only a source of cheap labour, as somewhere they can install their businesses under the most favourable conditions. Serbia's economy has no use for that, the only integration with these eastern countries can be good for the citizens of Serbia in the future and for our economy, and the EU and European integration are the history of the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63445	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63446	Ladies and gentlemen, since we've opened up a broad debate, then I'll answer that. What is the fact that politics is measured, how the results are measured, through something that is visible, tangible, and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see. You know, when you look at what state our factories come from, investors, those who open up a large number of jobs, where the salaries are solidly large. Here, on the territory of the city of Belgrade when "Meita" came, for example, which recently opened a new plant for 500 new jobs, when Johnson Electric came, when factories came to Pančevo, and Zrenjanin, when they came to Nis, when they came to Leskovac, Vranje, when they came across Serbia. You see where our farmers export their agricultural products, between 85% and 90% of our trade is going to CEFTA countries and the EU. I have criticised the EU frequently. It was not always the official position of the government, but I also criticised it when they failed to implement those agreements such as the Brussels Agreement and it was very clearly said by Serbian President Mr. Vukic, members of the government. We criticised them where they were guarantors of agreements that didn't have the strength to implement, but we should also tell people what the results we have managed to achieve thanks to our good co-operation with EU Member States. Thanks to this, we had an unemployment rate of 26% in 2012, today we have 11% unemployment. We today have an average salary that is dramatically higher than it was in 2012, which is almost 500 euros, 509 euros will be in January. We therefore have the opportunity, and thanks to this proposal that the president had, we have the opportunity not only to export Serbian tomatoes, but also Serbian cars and all that the Republic of Serbia produces to those countries. We have mostly surpluses in the trade with the countries around us. We are an economically more powerful country than those countries. We have more production than they do. We have more products we can offer for their market. That's the point. The bottom line is you're thinking, not what it's easy to tell people and what they might like, but what it's about to bring us economic benefits, what it's about to bring a bigger salary, what it's about to bring a full basket to make these people live happier. Secondly, as regards the protection of our national interests, it was not Vukic who spoke, but who armed our army. Our army today thanks to Alexander Vukic is one of the strongest in the region. She's armed with those weapons that we wanted, the weapons the military asked for, armed in co-operation with those countries that the Republic of Serbia wanted. Were there all kinds of pressures? Yes, it is. What was Alexander Wolf's answer? He said Serbia is a sovereign state, an independent state, we'll work with whoever we want. That's how it's shown in practice, not in theory. In practice, it is shown that Aleksandar Vucic is the one who is deserved, absolutely deserved, because the policy of many countries towards the Republic of Serbia has changed, because Serbia's reputation today is significantly greater than it was before. These countries that are withdrawing recognition are withdrawing to the greatest extent because they recognize the president of Serbia and what he did in the previous years, precisely that force which increases Serbia's reputation in the world and not only those facts they were known ten years ago and five years ago, are not only norms and legal acts, you know it was naive to say, but now we have introduced them to the fact that there is a violated international right. No, it's because they trust Serbia more today. They could have done it ten years ago, they could have done it seven years ago, so they didn't do it today because they trust the Republic of Serbia today, because they have a greater reputation for the Republic of Serbia and because the Republic of Serbia firmly protects its national interests, not only on KIM, which is always very important to point out, we protect our national interests both in KIM and in every other part of Serbia. Our job is to protect Serbia's interests everywhere, and when it comes to production, it is the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Our interest is to reduce unemployment, to get more companies, to hire our people, to make our people pay better, to live better and happier. The instability in the region, it sometimes seems to me that people don't understand, instability in any country of the region, the smallest, is not good for the Republic of Serbia. It is good for us to make these countries economically stronger, if nothing to buy our products more, to offer our products better, to be more valuable in production, to make our product cheaper on their market than even their domestic product. If these countries are unstable, if there are any conflicts, if there is some chaos, they will not buy anything from us, but will try to bring this instability to our borders as well. We're not interested in anything like that. But thanks again to this Alexander Vukic, we today have both a more capable army and police who will not allow Serbia to be threatened in any way. It is not Serbia because it behaves responsibly weak. Serbia is precisely because it has seriousness, responsibility, because it has the interest of its people and a better and better quality life and more weapons for the Serbian military and better quality products and in agriculture and people staying here and their better wages and lower unemployment, because it has acted responsibly, because it has acted responsibly. We're in co-operation with China. So who brought the president of China here? Who's the one who managed to organize that kind of collaboration to buy China the Iron? Who did this? Who was that? But ask the president of China. The president of China said that, very clearly. Xi Jinping, you can check that out, and here you have a representative of the Chinese state, the Chinese ambassador, ask the Chinese ambassador. She said who's the strategic partner of Xi Jinping, not to say I, and you ask the Chinese, let the Chinese say not to say we from Serbia. It would be pretentious for Serbs to answer that question, it's much better if the Chinese say so. The Chinese know who is the strategic partner of the Chinese state here, among other things, and the Chinese state. We co-operate with all the countries in the world because we are leading a smart policy, not a policy that will isolate Serbia from anyone. Isolating is great, except it brings you damage, you have less salary, less employees, chaos in the country and instability. So how do you get weapons for the army? How do you get the police equipment? How do you strengthen wages? How do you increase pensions? You can only do that in a stable country that has a good economic policy. After all, the results of these years show that Aleksandar Vukic and how well he knows how to lead our country, and how well he knows how to achieve the results. The most important thing for a country, for one nation, is that it listens not only to populist words, but also to make difficult moves that at that time may not sound convenient to people, but when they see that it brings them a better and better life, then they realize how correct that policy was at those times. As for Kosovo and Metohija, it is very easy to see what the Serbs who live there think, so that we are not greater protectors of their rights than themselves, that we are no longer to God's concern for them than themselves. Since a small number of people decide to go live in Kosovo and Metohija, to show that commitment to our southern province, and then when you go to those who live there and ask them what they think about each of us, they say it in the elections, very clearly, so they tell us who's to make a statistical mistake, and who's to support more than 90%. You have that very clearly in people living in Kosovo and Metohija. However, Serbia will continue to work on its stability, continue to strengthen its capacities, continue to export to all these countries, continue to strengthen our production, as it does today, that our people who produce both our farmers and our production and our car manufacturers and all those who work in this country, the whole auto-industry that is extremely powerful today has the potential to export under easier conditions, under easier opportunities to these surrounding countries and thus achieve a better life for our citizens. It's Alexander Vukic's policy, and I think it's the right way for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63447	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now, in accordance with Article 87, I'm setting a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63449	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the Government, when there are so many proposals in the Assembly with different factors in countries around us and other international factors, it is a good sign that the country is opening up, that it is expanding its friendships, that it is building co-operation, and that is something that can build a more significant prosperity for the country and all its citizens, but I will focus my attention on the Law on travel documents, confident that it will certainly contribute to what is ahead of us after adoption, the efficiency of the travel document itself and everything concerning travel documents and the issue of travel documents itself. In this regard, and according to the experience we have in Novi Pazar and other municipalities, or police administrations in the Sandzak area, I would like to point out that there are no mechanisms for effective service for citizens when issuing travel documents. We have a very outdated technique, rather poor spatial conditions. In general, the New Market Police Administration building is in pretty bad shape, so it's central and so on, and so on. However, there is also an auxiliary building called a barracks. Therefore, my recommendation and request to the Minister himself and the departmental authorities is to get closer to solving this problem as soon as possible, to extend the necessary spaces and certainly to provide services both in Novi Pazar and in other municipalities so that travel documents can be issued effectively. It is known, and we have pointed out that there have been even certain incidents that have been caused by anxiety in the stuffy spaces, hallways where a lot of people are waiting, so it is of great importance that the Ministry gets to solve this problem as soon as possible, because I think that in the 21st century, and given the overall rise in the development of the country and the budgetary possibilities, I think that it is only necessary that this problem, too, I hope, is effectively solved, because the obligation of the state is wherever it is possible to facilitate citizens, try to help them make their lives easier and better, and you know that there are a lot of different problems for citizens that produce and cause anxiety and self-depression. Also, I want to point out the issue of resolving citizenship and two issues. One concerns Serbian citizens, though their status is unfortunately still questionable. It is the people who were born in Montenegro and after Montenegro's independence. So, they have previously lived in Serbia, they have declared Serbia's citizenship, they have lost Montenegro's citizenship automatically. According to the data we have a very large number of citizens waiting to resolve their citizenship in the Republic of Serbia, even more than ten years. Our request from the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party is that this issue be resolved as quickly and as efficiently as possible, because it is citizens who cannot resolve their basic civil rights because this problem is somehow hanging in the air. I would also like to point out the accumulation of cases relating to the requirements of citizenship, i.e. citizenship from citizens from the territory of the Republic of Turkey who are definitely originating from our premises and who, mainly, meet all the conditions to restore their previously lost citizenship. Unofficial information is that the number of officials working on these issues is inadequate. I think it would be very important to take this issue seriously to resolve this effectively and to the benefit of the citizens in the spirit of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63450	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63451	Thanks for the suggestions. We're really doing just like you said, working on these priorities. Simply, in the years that were bad for our country and in which the economy was extremely bad, the police and the military were somewhere in the seal. It was really minimal then. Some buildings that exist, which are even from the 1950s across Serbia, I have visited a large number of police stations, there are some that are in very bad shape. Some of the worst are in Belgrade. I don't want to single out which one now, but if you went to the Vrachar Police Station, you'd say, Vrachar, one of our country's most exclusive municipalities, when you look at the state of the police station, which is really bad. The Sava Venac Police Station was partially renovated, partially arranged, since it is located there in the Foreign Office, there is the Audit Department of the Traffic Police Department, there is the Sava Venac Police Station. When I was with them a few years ago, close to the start of my term, when I saw the situation, I really thought it might be possible to make it look that way. Everything was bad, and when you start in a row, then you don't know what you're going to do before, whether you're going to take care of information equipment, vehicles, uniforms, whatever's been neglected for a very long time. That's exactly what I'm saying for every environment, every county in Serbia, and we're looking to take care of the first parent police administrations, police administration buildings, and then spread to police stations. This year we'll finish the equipment. We do it all the time, but this year we're gonna fix the state of information equipment. Our IT and telecommunications sector is working to improve software that will make it easier and faster for our citizens to exercise all their rights in the field of administrative affairs. Of course, we always come up with that question about the number of employees, e.g. People say we need more traffic cops - I agree. Europeans tell us that we need more people at the border – I agree. We need more people on administrative matters – I agree. We need more people as school cops – I agree. We need more people in the fight against drugs – I agree, we just need to find money for it. If we were to fill everything out, as Minister of the Interior, I wouldn't mind, but I'd be incorrect to other colleagues to say - give it to me, because that means we have to take someone. There's one cop more, but then that means one less nurse somewhere. One police station could be more renovated, but that means a mile down. So it's just a matter of priority. We're trying not to make people feel it, but I agree with you that there's once been a rush, especially in this year where it's been ten years since the expiry date for biometric passports that were then first published. Our people, like by command, have all come across Serbia in the same two months to take out a passport and then you can imagine order. That is why, among other things, I came up with the idea of offering these amendments to the laws that are before you today, so that citizens can do so when they really need it. You have time today or, say, you came from abroad, there are people living abroad, they come to Serbia, and then they usually try in those months when they stay in Serbia to solve all these issues. This way they can come at any time, they can do it in our DKP, they can do it in any other way. I understand you need more options. I am pleased that our country is economically stronger and thanks to this I believe that in the following year we will have even more opportunities to fix all this and I ask you and the citizens of Novi Pazar, as well as all other cities in Serbia, only to have understanding, and I want us to work together with people from Novi Pazar and every other city in Serbia to make the position of both police officers and their relationship with the citizens and services we provide as best possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63452	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. Now the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63453	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support these laws, but it should be said that, for the sake of our viewers, Serbia must be extremely careful. All those war horrors we've been through. Many of our Serbs and other peoples migrated during the great wars, so we need to understand others. We didn't destroy Syria, or Iraq, or Libya, or Afghanistan. Under the circumstances, our territory is used in the migration from their countries by war affecting the EU, which is partly, alongside the United States, responsible for the destruction of these countries and the alleged war uprisings. As far as co-operation with the police is concerned, I'd like to... I'm going to give an example of how important it is in financial malfeasance, of course, in terrorism, but financial malfeasance is very important co-operation. If that co-operation had been, I believe earlier, but not in the full dimension, let's say, Europol could have asked about these fake Schools and Gilas' cross-border televisions, say Luxembourg. There they fictitiously registered 20 so-called so-called. cross-border channels that do not broadcast the programme there, but are re-emitting it in Serbia. Now, every viewer of ours can reasonably wonder what kind of re-emission in Serbia is like without initial broadcasting in Luxembourg? Why am I saying this? Because I'm responsible for saying that you fake cross-border, media beatings over the heads of officials, including the police minister, my little things and other colleagues are being distracted from their business. Over 500m euros in Solakov and Gilasov's SBB business are worth in Serbia, i.e. it earns that much annually. That this is serious money talking and buying by the BS Partners of that system for 2.6 billion. Our viewers should know that Gilasov and Šolakov's business have been worth 2.6 billion euros each year, to pump 500m euros in revenues from the subscription of internet services and TV services, cable services. That's why they're so paid. In order to pump that money into fictitious jobs, they needed fictitious cross-border television. They started a 20. That's how re-emission money is pumped out of Serbia, and that's how domestic media is choked. By broadcasting, not re-emiting, Serbian commercials on our market further endanger domestic media. Imagine if we were to open a television station in Paris that's registered in India and say, "We're re-emitting a program, even though in India this program is not re-emitting"? We physically register television, go to Paris, London or somewhere and broadcast a program against the English and French governments, and I say -- I re-promise it from Serbia, is not to broadcast it in Serbia, but here I am re-emitting it. How long would it take me? That is why I ask in this cooperation to ask whether these programmes are broadcast in Luxembourg and Slovenia – N1, Nova S, then re-emissioned in Serbia, which is allowed. When programmes are re-emitting, then REM and Serbia's competent authorities are not in charge of that kind of television, but since there are no re-emissions, they are working on black. They work black, they take big money, they take it out. I'll give another example of speculation. You all know that there is one N1 television that is not registered and no PIB, led by Jugoslav Ćosic. At the same time, Mr. Minister, he has a private firm called "Key Connection", a key link. Let's say the key link is next – Kurti is a good politician for him, the Serbian List is bad. The Serbian list is a representative of the Serbian state in Kosovo. That's also known to Kurti, but Yugoslavia's Cosic is not. Let's see why the Serb list is unwanted on such televisions, and let's say Kurti is desirable. For example, a transaction from Albania from 19.1.2018 until 6.3.2019, I received such information because Yugoslavia Ćosic rebelled against some secret relationship. That secret connection is becoming public right now. He received 250,000 euros from Albania. So, in view of this co-operation, you should ask how did his private company register for the production of the television programme, based on a business consulting of 250,000 euros? His company, where he owns 90% of the company and the connected face of S.C., with him 10%, which is the director, has one employee, gets 250 grand. I ask - what did he advise Albanians to do when he got $250,000? Is this about Kurti? We can verify that information if we cooperate with everyone, including US representatives, because of the terrorism that has spread, and where the films are mounted in Kosovo, etc., so I don't know if the business consulting might have been related to it? Can business consulting be taken out and those arrested yesterday? Let's just say this one got from the American embassy to a private firm, watch out, private firm d.o.o., based on gifts and help. And since when do companies get gifts and help? It's 26 million dinars, dinars. He also got $47,000. It's worth checking out. There's work to be done. Now let me tell you how much Jugoslav Ćosic has to do with the connected face of S.ć, which was also the secretary of NUNS, the famous NUNS, means it's a joint coalition media hotline that should scare us from entering Solakov and Gilas's business, so let's say, it's a total reward of 510 000 euros, so in their accounts they raised 335 thousand pounds, $147,000 and 38 million dinars. So in a few years, the high-ranking director who has a salary at N1 that does not have a PIB 4,000 euros totaled with a connected face raised a million and 400,000 euros. Since this could directly endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia, since part of the money came from Albania, part of the US Embassy, I ask you and all other colleagues - whether it is worth working with Europe, with the police, with all the police of the world to contain something like this. Those here who aren't, actively support Gilasov and Solakov's business, which is based on their people doing these things, so they take the money, and then N1 and Nova S TV can broadcast whatever they want. But I am free to conclude that I do not think they are broadcasting just a programme against the Government of the Republic of Serbia and against us and against the ruling majority, they are broadcasting a programme against the state interests of the Republic of Serbia and are being richly rewarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63454	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63455	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected co-workers from the Ministry of the Interior, fellow MPs, today we are talking about a package of laws in the field of internal affairs and security that are very important. It concerns improving existing procedures, i.e. improving the position of citizens in the exercise of their rights, as well as enabling more efficient work and more quality international co-operation in the security sector. First of all, in a few minutes, I would refer to the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents, which has some solutions that we can say are more advanced and more effective. Practically, solutions in this bill speed up and specify procedures for obtaining travel documents, thus reducing the costs of citizens to achieve these rights. The most important changes I would like to praise are, my colleagues have spoken of this, mostly that all necessary documents for the issue of passports and other travel documents will be provided by official duty in the future, which means that citizens will no longer have to go to the counter or pay additional costs for obtaining documents. The second solution I particularly want to highlight and praise is a simplified procedure when it comes to advertising an invalid travel document. So far, a travel document that has been incorrectly advertised, as we know, in the Official Messenger, which has been paid for and adverted, while this solution in the draft law will be simplified as far as citizens are concerned. Our decades of co-operation with a number of international security organisations is well known, especially in crime prevention organisations, in all their forms. The Republic of Serbia has had great and positive experiences, especially in recent years, in co-operation with international security organisations and has unequivocally contributed to the discovery of criminal offences and prosecution of the perpetrators themselves. Today we are confirming international agreements that contribute to an even better positioning of Serbia in Europe and the world on police and security co-operation. One of the agreements that parliament is due to ratify today, that is, in the voting day, is the Agreement amending the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, as it is now called European. In 2017, by changing the legal framework of Europol, i.e. by changing the name of the EU Agency for the Co-operation of Law enforcement Authorities and extending the mandate of the organisation itself, the organisation now covers crimes against the financial interests of the EU, trade on the basis of privileged information and manipulation of the financial market, as well as genocide, crime against humanity and war crimes. These changes are the reason why we are discussing the amendment today, that is, the agreement we need to ratify. A little later, my colleague will also talk about this agreement and about the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union Agency for Co-operation in implementing the law on sending liaison officers, as well as the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the US Ministry of Interior to improve co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration. One interesting agreement that I would refer to for a few minutes is the Agreement between the governments of the Black Sea Economic Community's participating states on co-operation in emergency situations and emergency response to natural and caused disasters and the Additional Protocol along with the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Government on Emergency Assistance and Emergency Response to Natural and Caused disaster. I would remind you that the Republic of Serbia is a participant in Black Sea Economic Co-operation. We here in parliament have a permanent parliamentary delegation in the Assembly of this organisation. The Republic of Serbia has chaired this organisation since 2016, when we hosted the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation here in Belgrade. On the sidelines of this meeting, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic then signed an agreement and an additional protocol providing Member States' co-operation in the area of emergency situations and that is, what is the subject of the debate. Significantly, it is certainly active participation in all international forums, because this is just another forum or organizations that have perspective and in which we participate. As Dacic said at the 25-year-old summit in 2017 - in today's world of economic crises, military conflicts, unremembered migration, the division of states and terrorism, organisations like this can make a difference. This is the goal Serbia is deeply committed to. It is clear that countries in the region, as well as all countries in the world, have their own political differences and open issues that cannot be resolved overnight. Given this, we believe that developing co-operation is the best way for countries to reach a common denominator and create an environment that would facilitate the achievement of a generally accepted solution. The agreement on co-operation and the provision of emergency assistance by emergency response to natural-induced disasters also contributes to this. As my colleague, the authorised representative of the SPS, Mr. Zagradian, said, we will, of course, support all the draft laws and these agreements that are on the agenda, and my colleague will continue to discuss certain documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63456	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word is Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63457	Thank you. As you have already had the opportunity to hear, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will also support these proposals, as well as any other proposals that are, above all, in favour of citizens and holders of these travel documents. However, I will also take advantage of the opportunity and the presence of the distinguished minister and vice-president of the government to point out several events that are causing discomfort among citizens, especially the Sandzak region and especially the Bosniak region, which, it seems, or at least, seem somewhat orchestrated to come in recent times and we have not yet had an official position of the ruling authorities on these events. Namely, in the village of Riljac near Trstenik, the "King of Serbia" association held its own assembly where they sang Chetnik songs that fall under KZP Article 317, which is said: "When the Chetnic Thresholds, in Pazar, the bull is struck. Heyrudine, can you get bacon when your chateau gets off the ceiling? “ So these are really dangerous and difficult messages. It probably suits someone at this point to try to bring some kind of unrest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially if we take into account that ten days after this at the address of the Islamic Community in Serbia, Mesihata, a letter addressd with the identity of the sender in which there was also an unexploded bullet. This is all, of course, reported and we as a party have also filed criminal charges against all these bearers of these crimes, but it is very important that Minister Stefanovic, as well as someone who is believed to be, as someone who has a mechanism and strength due to this resistor who leads and positions in the government, also, that one position on these issues, because we believe that these incidents are probably somewhere else ready, but that cause discomfort and harm, too, a feeling of discomfort, not to say fear, and sometimes cause a revolution among citizens, particularly members of Islam, citizens of Bosniak nationality, etc. Also, somehow consistently, some types of discrimination are mentioned very often in the employment of police administrations. What I would really like to ask the minister, to put a clean sensor on that part, is the Pryboy Police Station, at the Prepolje Police Administration, where from the field, employees of Bosniak nationality have turned our attention to the possible self-determination of certain executives, during these reconstructions and reforms within police stations and administrations, since 2018 and 2019, their status has been extremely humiliated and reduced and that it absolutely does not satisfy those positions which, according to their competences and qualifications, deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63458	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63459	I'm glad that we live in a country that has great respect for our multiethnicity and multi-confessionality, because these are the values that I stand for. You're right, we shouldn't listen anywhere, anything against a nation, against a certain creed. That's what people don't like. This is not what people like, as they do not like in Novi Pazar when they listen to songs in the stadium where everything is said about Serbs, they call for the killings of Serbs and the most difficult things, therefore, much harder than this bacon. So, much harder things, and people hate it, as do men of Muslim religion, of course they can't be comfortable when someone mentions anything that offends them and threatens them in any way. I think we should fight together against every kind of discrimination, therefore, against every kind of violence, because it is one form of violence. Our society is built on it, and I'm proud because both in this Parliament and in the state and in the government and in the Assembly, so we have one really, in that sense, we may differ in political views, but here today people don't look at each other on any other basis, whether there will be these or those nations or these and those religions. As for that, I am certainly ready to work together and as Minister of the Interior and, of course, to appeal to the judicial authorities to do their job, not to allow any example, anywhere, no one, no matter who it is or what it is. Of course, we should also show sometimes political maturity for some phenomena whose response may be more dusted up in public, may have more impact on deepening division, to think, of course, about where there are criminal acts and criminal acts, or judges, let them decide and do their job, but I think that we as politicians should also take care of the smartest and wisest policy that people in this country will get closer to each other, and not share them. As for this, then, I will pay particular attention to the police station in Tutin. I want to see what this is about. You know how there's always objections. Some say -- only Bosniaks are employed in local self-government, the Serb can never get a job. They say -- yes, then only Serbs will get at the police station, not Bosniaks. Then they always accuse each other. What I'm trying to say to you is, when we discuss the competition, we're really looking for the best. It's great for me that our officers are where the Bosniaks are, most of them, it's great for the Bosniak to be a cop, because when a Bosniak cop hits a Bosniak criminal, it's a cop hit a criminal. When it comes to different ethnic principles, it's always for lawyers, for society, for someone on the side of the room to say, yeah, he beat him because he was a different religion, not because he was a thief, he stole or did something, and he stood up to the police when he was arrested. You understand what I'm talking about. So, my goal is to have peace. Honestly, my goal is not to have any news from any of the municipalities during the day, to tell me – boss, everything's fine, we have no problem. That's the point to me. But I'm really going to try to check everything you said. It's in my interest to have the best, if this young man is the best candidate, I don't care what his name is, his last name, where he's from, it's important to me that he's the best and the best I have to get a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63460	Thank you, Minister. The word has the People's MP Jahja Fehratovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63461	Thank you very much for these words. One correction. You probably didn't hear me. It's a police station in Priboj, not Tutin. I agree with you on this first part, regarding this Chetnik assembly. It is a small provocation. However, the bullet to the address of the president of the Islamic Community in Serbia is not only a provocation, but one very, very serious warning and for a reason causes discomfort and concern for all of us members of the Islamic Community in Serbia, as I also agree that any structure that causes hatred and intolerance, however, is not good for any kind of condemnation. But I also know that in New Market for centuries we have lived truly in harmony, in peace, both Bosniaks and Serbs, and that we have never, but never, ever, had any religious or national impatience, that this has always been imported from the outside, as a result of someone's efforts to cause poisoning in such an area. It is therefore very important that in this way, indeed, everyone in the entire system of the state reacts, so that this is exactly what to warn and that young people, primarily and all other citizens, will see their future in this common state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63462	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63463	I apologize for my failure and very harshly, certainly, condemn any threat that comes to the presidents of any religious community, every man in Serbia, after all. I don't know how far the investigation has arrived at this stage, but I'm going to try to find out and tell you if it was launched, certainly not details, but I'm sure the D.A.'s office and the police will find whoever did it. I'm really looking forward to a harsh sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63464	Thank you. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63465	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Ministers with associates, MPs, a package of laws and agreements we are discussing today are very important for the internal affairs, security and emergency sector, as they improve the legal framework and expand bilateral and international co-operation in these areas, making police, fire and security forces of Serbia important. I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, as the first in today's debate, and then the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. The travel documents law, which we are changing today, improves solutions that will contribute and speed up procedures and reduce the costs that citizens will pay when issuing travel documents. To remind us that in July 2008, Serbia introduced a biometric passport and placed itself in a group of countries with the most modern form of biometric passport. So our passport became one of the safest and because it contains a radio frequency identifier, or fingerprint, so it's almost impossible to falsify it. Getting such a safe awake ID for 10 years has made it impossible to trade and forge a Serbian passport, which was previously the case because our passport had been at a price before, so unfortunately it is often also counterfeited. We know that the biometric passport was also a condition for obtaining a visa-free system. I'd like to mention the most important amendments to the laws that we consider advanced solutions. It is therefore a good solution to obtain documents for the issue of passports and other travel documents by official duty, and this will be done by the issuing authority. So citizens will not go to different counters, nor will they pay various fees for obtaining documents. It is worth noting that the introduction of e-Government and integration of all state authorities, which issue various documents, also enabled citizens to speed up procedures for obtaining documents of type of ID cards and travel documents. In modernising the administration, i.e. in the introduction of electronic administration, there is also a great credit to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which in the last few years has created a legal framework and introduced exactly 11 different databases, including police. This kind of teamwork, interresor work, certainly gives good results. The law also allowed applications for the issue of new passports six months before the expiry of the existing passport. This will make it possible to reduce traffic on police station counters, especially before travel season. In this context, I would like to commend the good organisation of police administrations in the process of publishing and passports and ID cards. This legal solution also solves the problem of the period of validity of passports on a trip to some countries in which the travel document must be valid for another six months. You can't enter these countries if this condition isn't met. The law allows for an earlier application if justified, but in this case the applicant must pay compensation for the technical production of documents and material expenditure, which is also a good solution, as it gives citizens the opportunity to address the issue of their travel documents in certain situations and in this way. The solutions I particularly want to draw attention to and support are a significantly simplified procedure for advertising an invalid travel document. As a result of the loss of damage or theft so far, citizens have had to advertise their travel documents invalid in the "Official Messenger" and wait for the advertisement to be announced. Of course, a certain amount was to be paid for that advertising. Following a new legal solution, an invalid document, whether lost, stolen or physically damaged, will be advertised on the interior ministry's website, immediately upon citizens' application of whose correction it is being made. This solution is not only more efficient, but also disbursement of citizens in this way, which means that the state, more specifically the Ministry of Interior, is also taking over this part of the cost. As a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I would also draw attention to a legal solution relating to the issue of passports to minors. That's what more colleagues talked about before me. On the one hand, it is good that in certain situations a underage child is issued a passport with the consent of only one parent, a parent who has custody of a child, and on the other hand, it should be handled very carefully in these cases, as one parent can happen to abuse this right at the expense of another parent. In general, this law offers better solutions. When it comes to international co-operation in the field of prevention and mitigation of consequences in the area of protection against natural disasters, we are today confirming another bilateral agreement, which is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on co-operation in the area of protection against natural and caused disasters. The agreement between the governments of our two countries was signed in Belgrade on 25 July 2019, which confirmed the country's interest to regulate and advance all forms of co-operation in the area of protection against natural and caused disasters, especially as it concerns two neighbouring countries that co-operate in other fields, above all, energy. We know that natural disasters, unfortunately, do not know the limits and that so much more valuable is the co-operation that is allowed by ratification of this agreement. The long-standing bilateral co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Bulgaria has resulted in a large number of contracts. Serbia, unfortunately, has great experience with natural disasters, especially floods and fires, and is very pleased with the Emergency Sector, as well as all employees, including fire departments throughout Serbia, to get new fire trucks and new equipment that has not been restored for a long time. Ten years since the establishment of the Emergency Sector, where rescue units saved about 25,000 people during that period, and it is commendable that some 260 new firefighters have been admitted in the last two years, and another 200 are being trained. So it's very much about modernising the emergency sector and rescue services. In previous days, we have just faced a great fire on the Old Mountain, where many acres of hundred-year forests have been burned, and this is unfortunately happening in other countries, and it is due to either great droughts and quite often human negligence. In this situation, we needed the cooperation of our friendly states. That is why this form of co-operation is both beneficial and valuable with us, with the friendly Republic of Bulgaria, so that joint action can prevent or reduce the consequences of fires, floods and other natural disasters. From all this said in today's debate, the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63466	Thank you. Now, the word has been made by Parliament MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, I support all the draft laws submitted by the Government, which are on the agenda today, but today, on this occasion, I will refer to the proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Internal Security on improving co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration. Countering terrorism is a very important segment of the national security policy of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, intelligence work is within the framework of the police and other intelligence i.e. Security services, the daily exchange of information on potential dangers, and the continued exchange of experiences, one of the most important ways to successfully confront this global threat. Serbian police and other security services in the Republic of Serbia have proved to be an extremely credible partner in this international fight. So far, we have been fortunate, unlike many countries in the environment and beyond, and there have been no terrorist attacks in Serbia. However, we must not be relaxed. Our police and other security forces, each of them in their own domain, must keep an eye on everyone, even the slightest possibility of terrorist attacks on our territory or anywhere against our citizens. Only by developing close co-operation with foreign services can Serbia defend itself against terrorism. This must be a continuous process that cannot stop at any moment and that must involve all the security forces that we have at our disposal. The biggest security challenges in this regard, therefore, in connection with terrorism, which must focus on the work of all our security services are primarily returnees from foreign wars and extreme radicalisation. We have data that there are currently up to 30 citizens of Serbia in Syria and Iraq, and from year to year, there is a trend in reducing such departures to foreign wars. However, radicalization models had been much simpler earlier, while today they practically moved to the virtual world. Terrorist organisations abuse social networks and propaganda sites, training, recruiting new members and raising financial resources. So we need to be aware that there are no final solutions and that we all need to adapt and perfect ourselves to make this global threat with far-reaching consequences stand in the way. Good intelligence inside the police and the strongest possible co-operation with police officers in the region, Europe and the whole world are the only way to successfully oppose this evil. A memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Internal Security on the promotion of co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration, signed in Washington on 14 May 2019, which we are today confirming here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by passing this law, allows for even closer and more professional co-operation between the two countries in the field of combating terrorism. We will allow the exchange of biometric data of security-interested persons to identify the identity of each person, including his national identity, his status as an immigrant or his history of travel that can indicate whether this person is involved in terrorist activities. By exchanging relevant and necessary data owned by two states, Serbia and the United States, we will prevent terrorist travel, thus reducing threats to national security. At the time of the migrant crisis, and especially in future migrant waves, by exchanging information and by obtaining biometric data from American records, we will be able to determine whether a person was involved in war conflicts or related to terrorist activities. This will raise the security of all our citizens and the entire Republic of Serbia to a higher level, and we will know at any moment who are the persons on our territory. So, in the end, I want to point out once again that the primary goal is to fight terrorism. Given that terrorism also has its international component, it is clear that only close co-operation between states can enable a more effective fight against this evil. It is therefore very important that we have such agreements on the fight against terrorism not only with the United States, but with almost all the Member States of the European Union, and that we also negotiated such an agreement with the Russian Federation and we expect it to be signed soon. We need and very much need the co-operation of security services in the fight against terrorism, so for all of this, I believe that the proposal for a bill to confirm the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Homeland Security on the improvement of co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and combat illegal migration should be adopted, and thus, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we confirm this memorandum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63468	Thank you, Mr. Dickie. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go, Mrs. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63469	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable fellow MPs, we are holding a debate at today's session on several laws in the area of internal affairs and security, particularly on a group of international and bilateral agreements in this area. Serbia is paying special attention to international and regional co-operation in the area of security and home affairs, as well as to all other aspects of co-operation that contributes to Serbia's even better positioning on the international agenda, which is evident and which confirm growing and increasing relations with many major and small countries of the world. Just these days another country has withdrawn recognition of the unilaterally declared so-called so-called. the countries of Kosovo. Now with the Republic of Ghana, which has withdrawn recognition at the weekend, notified by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, it is 16 countries. I will look back today on just one part of a set of agreements that will be ratified in order to create legal assumptions for an even more fruitful co-operation with a number of countries with which Serbia has already signed more bilateral agreements from different areas. And these agreements confirm the correct course that leads both the Government and the President of the Republic, and diplomacy, or the foreign minister. So, when it comes to the security sector, Serbia has been co-operating for decades with numerous international organisations because terrorism, crime in all its forms, drug trafficking and weapons are unfortunately without borders. Ratification of these agreements contributes to the even better positioning of Serbia in Europe and the world in terms of police and security co-operation, to detecting crimes that threaten both the general and national security of individual states. One of the agreements that parliament is to ratify is the Agreement amending the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office (Europola). Otherwise, an operational strategic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Europol was signed in Belgrade on 16 January 2014. After that, more specifically in 2017, the legal framework of Europol was changed as a result of the entry into force of the regulation amending the name of Europol to the European Union Agency for the Co-operation of Law enforcement Authorities. The organisation's mandate has also been extended, so it now covers crimes against the European Union's financial interests, trade on the basis of privileged information and manipulation of the financial market, as well as genocide, crime against humanity and war crimes. Serbia's security sector is given the legal power to engage in operational and strategic co-operation by confirming this agreement, and as far as new crimes are concerned, the European Union Agency for Law Co-operation, which is now called, has been given an extended mandate. In particular, it is also about co-operation between Serbia and the European Union police services. This is, above all, the Ministry of the Interior, which in the European Union is the European Police Service, which is the European Union's criminal intelligence agency founded in 1999 and whose members are all members of the European Union. With the European Union Agency for Co-operation in Law Implementation, the Republic of Serbia signed another agreement early this year. That's the liaison officer's appointment agreement. This agreement should also be ratified. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union Agency on the appointment of liaison officers was signed on 4 March 2019 and 8 April 2019. By confirming this agreement, it should contribute to the improvement of already existing co-operation with Europe, as it will be the task of European liaison officers to support and coordinate co-operation between the Republic of Serbia, Europol and the Member States of the European Union, as well as to support contacts between the Republic of Serbia, Europol and the Member States of the European Union and facilitate the exchange of information. European liaison officers staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will receive privileges and immunities granted by Serbia to members of the administrative and technical staff of diplomatic offices in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. European Liaison Officers will be at the Interior Ministry, the Police Directorate, at the International Operations Police Co-operation Office. The European Affairs Department will have the necessary conditions, such as office space and telecommunications equipment. The third law in this package on the co-operation of police forces to be confirmed by the Assembly is the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Interior of the United States of America on the improvement of co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration. The memorandum was signed in Washington on 14 May 2019, resulting from the mutual will of the two states to regulate and improve co-operation in the area of preventing terrorist travel and combating illegal migration that may be a threat to national security. The contents of this memo are adequate institutional measures and decisions regarding migration, migrants, their status and privileges, requests for Azil, and co-operation will be achieved through data exchange, improvement of prevention, investigation and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts from this population. Major migrations, especially the close eastern migrant crisis that has affected Serbia, are more of a reason for bilateral and international co-operation of security authorities on this plan, especially when it comes to the threat of terrorism and other crimes that threaten national security. The next agreement that we will ratify is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the replacement and use of driving licences. As well as previous agreements in this package, the one with the Republic of Tunisia should contribute to strengthening and improving bilateral co-operation between the two countries. This time, it is the traffic security sector by allowing for an easier replacement of a national permit for the permission of another signatories state. For Serbia, co-operation with the Republic of Tunisia has special significance when it is known that Tunisia has not recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Tunisia supports a peaceful and democratic solution to Kosovo and Metohija issues with respect to the UN Security Council Resolution Charter, as well as respect for the provisions of international law. This position, which Tunisia also represents at regional organisations gathering Arab and African countries, requires so-called. Kosovo for its entry into UNESCO at the 38th UNESCO meeting on 9 November 2015, Tunisia voted for a postponement of its decision, and was then abstentioned in its accession decision. The framework of international law that Tunisia adheres to and respects for the non-recognition of the so-called Kosovo remains a commitment in all attempts to push it into membership of international organisations. Otherwise, Serbia has an extremely fruitful co-operation with the Republic of Tunisia in several bilateral agreements. Finally, all these agreements confirm the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia to strengthen capacity in the internal affairs and security sector to which continuity has contributed in the activities of the MUP since 2008, when Minister Ivica Dacic was headed, until today when he heads the ministry, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. That is why anyone who follows this proper course of the government of the Republic of Serbia is going to do better tomorrow and will live in a stronger Serbia whose reputation in the world is growing. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for a full set of laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63470	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63471	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of Associates. Here, among other things, today's agenda includes the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between our Government and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which concerns co-operation between the two countries in the area of protection against natural and other disasters. The agreement signed in Belgrade this July, which strengthens our co-operation with neighbouring Bulgaria in this area, above all by regulating the procedure for mutual assistance. The public is well-known that the arrival of SNS at Serbia's head of Serbia's co-operation with other countries has gained a completely new form. It has been raised to a very high level in most cases, these relations are friendly, and in particular good neighbourly relations with countries in the region are carefully nurtured. For Serbia, every kind of co-operation with neighbours is of paramount importance, because we are no longer isolated Serbia, we are open to Europe and that the world, we are developing economically and we are building a road infrastructure that connects us. As said last Saturday at the opening of the eastern arms of Corridor 10, which connected Serbia and Bulgaria, a wall between the two republics was brought down. Western and Eastern Europe is connected. Historically significant things are happening for Serbia, and each of us as well as our citizens know how important it is for the development of our country and for the achievement of the standards that we seek. Serbia and Bulgaria will soon complete a joint pipeline that will allow the two countries to collect taxi revenues and allow the citizens to have a stable gas market. Such friendships send a good picture of countries in the Balkans, and it is very useful for this area to work together and develop our economies, to export our products, to strengthen our economic capacities and to become known as the Balkans to which tourism is coming, to invest and to open new factories. Serbia is already on the road and the leader in the region is drawing investment to build infrastructure and every new project with our neighbours will bring mutual benefit. In this sense, the agreement between Serbia and Bulgaria in the area of protection against businesses and other disasters implies notification of dangers, joint training of rescue teams, and a simplified process of crossing the state border. The exchange of information will lead to timely response and raising the security of citizens, and a simplified procedure for crossing the state border to faster delivery of humanitarian aid, which is crucial. The Serbian interior ministry and the Bulgarian Interior Ministry have already implemented certain projects, such as the fire protection project, then flood protection and ice-skating, and co-operation in the field of fighting corruption, drug trafficking and so on. So, one very successful co-operation between Serbia and Bulgaria, and this agreement will become even more intense, of course, thanks to the good and friendly relations that President Vukic maintains with the Bulgarian prime minister, we can expect excellent co-operation in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63472	Thank you, Mrs. Stojanović. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. He's not there. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63473	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, distinguished ministers and guests, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I want to say at first that I, as a convinced Social Democrats and my Social Democratic Party, led by Rasim Ljajic, are looking forward and we will always be strong in support of such laws, above all, by laws that facilitate citizens' procedures and make it easier and more precise for them how they can come to their rights, in this case to their own documents. On the other hand, it is very important and what we very much support, is that we disburse our citizens and see that this proposal on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents and makes it easier and easier, above all, to those citizens to whom information, borderline areas, rural areas, enable one man on the Cave to lose without any expense in cases of losing their passport or other documents do not pay anything for publication in the "Official Messenger", that we now give a new opportunity and a relief and thus reduce the cost of citizens and show citizens that the state is standing on their feet and that the state is really regulating themselves in a way to make life easier for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we are facing a very important confirmation of the Agreement amending the Agreement on Operational Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, or Europol, which is the EU criminal intelligence agency. It is extremely important for European institutions to recognise that Serbia's MUP is extremely good in its work, with operational, professional and that due to good work, we open the door to another extremely important institution in the EU, a similar agreement was signed by Romania and Bulgaria prior to its membership. This is the third exception for a country that is in the EU accession process. For something like this to happen, it is indeed a serious signal for us, especially as the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is the EU and the harmonisation of our country's law with the EU laws on which we in the SDPS, Rasim Ljajic, express our insistence. You know well, Mr. Minister, that there is no budget for the Republic of Serbia but has already been announced for one of the next sessions and we have activated, indeed, the issue of quite a poor state of police administration infrastructure on the territory of all Serbia. I am particularly in pain with extremely bad situations and the appearance of these institutions in the interior, much more than in Belgrade, for example. You will probably understand me, given that these institutions are in fact an indicator of the seriousness of the Republic of Serbia. I think this government with these ministers, this leadership and this president of the state has really done a lot, that the much better situation is economical and that we must not allow one police administration in Novi Pazar to look what it looks like. This is and I really suggest, I know that you've always been open about this and that you've really done a lot of things to have more resources in this budget and for infrastructure, but it seems to me that it's very important that we have an increased number of officers, especially in border areas like Sandzak on the territory of the New Market. It's clearly a lack of police and you've tried and tried to solve it, but once again I have to appeal, especially the traffic police, because it's really important for every honest citizen to see that there are police that are functional, who work a lot. This gives honest citizens of this country one security and a real belief that this country, as well as what does all that is good in the interests of each citizen. Although it was not a question for you, but for the prosecution, it was mentioned that the unfavorable event of October 20th, when a group of non-serious people really acted unseriously and, contrary to the laws of this state, in a nearby village of the municipality of Trstenik several unserious people dressed in Chetnik uniforms insulted the dignity of Bosniaks and the nationality of Muslims, but I would like to say that a really great impression of me left one, to say, an explanation and a build-up of a local priest from that parish where this was held, which was indeed in a nice tone, once, to say, of a brotherly tone, really surrounded himself from this sort of thing, and practically acted on the tightening of good relations that currently existed between Bosniaks and Serbs in the Republic of Serbia. But in any case, anything that is not a conviction can be understood as an excuse. Therefore, I ask of you, although it is not specifically your question, but from the public prosecutor's office, that their question, as well as from all the media and the public, is that, according to such events, including from all the fields, from all the matches, from all the places where international hatred is being sent, hate is being met internationally and the good and brotherly relations between the people living in the Republic of Serbia, such things must be criticised and that is what we in the SDP insist on. At the top of the pyramid in this country, there should be no man, no Serb, no Bosniak, no Hungarian, but a citizen of this country. They all have the same rights, and no one is allowed to threaten anyone in this country, and that's what this government is reading at all times, but at this point, we have to really do everything to make sure that these things don't happen and that they're publicly criticized. In any case, SDP MPs Rasim Ljajic will support these laws and proposed agreements. We think that they are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we think that they are uniting us with EU laws, a brotherhood of European people to which Serbia belongs anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63474	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63475	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents when looked at, in fact, nothing fundamentally changes in relation to the current text of the law, and there was no need to discuss this at all, but we have submitted a number of amendments just so that in this debate we can tell you exactly what is not good and if you've already changed the law, we have proposed amendments to the law, to show you that it actually needed to be done to make any more sense. We were actually expecting Minister Stefanovic to talk to the MPs today about far more serious matters, about affairs that rock Serbia and talk about precisely because as a serious political party, we want to hear from the minister all the questions that appear in the public and that once in Serbia, some affair really closes down, not that one affair goes under the carpet to make another appear, and that's how it's been for decades. It's not about this government either, but it's kind of going on in Serbia as some really unhealthy situation. We Serbian radicals do not belong to those who raise a hectare and who speak without reason and without arguments to the public. We're not the ones who want to attack the regime at all costs. Now that we're talking about what's up to date, we're also just saying it with an extremely clean and sincere intention to resolve these public situations. First of all, we want to say something about this so-called. "Little Shengen." We think it is not good at all, that if this is a substitute for Serbia's entry into the EU, then the team should have told your EU friends that we do not need any crumbs, especially crumbs that will harm Serbia even more than EU entry. We heard the other day from the President of the Republic how he talked about this "little Schengen" as something epic, because, now from the new year, if someone doesn't accidentally defuse it, we'll go with our ID cards in Macedonia, where we're going with our 2011 ID cards, because that year, Ivica Dacic, as a member of the then government of that regime, signed this agreement, in Montenegro, where we always go with our ID cards, to BiH, where we always go with ID cards and they, of course, come to us in the same way. So where do we have a change? We have a problem with Albania, and it is a problem, and we are afraid that something very serious is hiding behind it and something that could harm the interests of the Serbian state. It is a public secret, and you, Minister, know perfectly well that the Cypriots from Kosovo and Metohija are free to go to Albania, that certainly no one is asking them for travel documents now. If he does, then they have those passports of that fake state. We now want to open the border between Albania and Serbia by allowing it to enter Serbia uncontrollably. You yourself said that, among other things, because of some migratory waves, now our question is whether this "little Schengen" would contribute in a positive or negative sense to the potential wave of migrants who expect this part of the world. That's more and more public talk. We can't hide it either, and we can't hide it. When the president of the state spoke about this, he said that, as he said, imports of agricultural products from Albania to Serbia increased if he said 17%, I don't know exactly, and that thanks to "little Schengen", we will make it easier for tomatoes to come from Albania to Serbia. You know, he was very worried about our peasants. They say he didn't remember saying to do something to open the way, say, a wooded pepper, somewhere to be sold in the world. And where can it be sold? Well, according to the already existing agreement we have with the Russian Federation, where we can sell all our agricultural products. So, we're just asking you to tell us completely what's going on here and to warn you that none of the representatives of the regime should, or should not attend that future meeting that is about to happen, which is actually announced in Draco, where could the representatives of the fake state of Kosovo be present? If that happens, then it will be clear to both us and the entire people that the government has indirectly recognised the false state of "Kosovo". I hope, hopefully, that won't happen, but we want to warn the authorities and the general public in time. Another topic is current these days, and these are problems with Krusik, with Aleksandra Obradovic, who has made public certain data related to the business of the company, and the factory Krusik. A public story has surfaced that Krusik was selling weapons below the price, that the private company that sold weapons instead of Krusik had made itself rich, that Krusik had been brought to the brink of destruction. You've tried it out somehow, I'd say, quite unhappily to stray from a serious explanation of this subject because I don't know any marines, etc. You can't put us in that group of politicians anyway. We just want him to work for the public, work for Krusika, work for the employees of Krusik, after all, and for you, Minister, since your father is mentioned as someone who is employed in that private company, to come out with all the details. You know, it's not just an answer to say – my father is not a co-owner of the company. Well, maybe it's not and we're not talking about it right now, we're talking about you saying you're busy at that firm yourself or Alexander Vukic said. Okay. Come on, here, I hope you answer that, anyway. So, we really want you as the competent minister to explain to the public of Serbia, and this place is the best place here, and you don't even have journalists here to maybe ask you questions you're reluctant to answer, we really as MPs want to hear the truth about this case. If what Aleksandar Obradovic put out in public or even part of it really is true, then certainly the D.A.'s office and how he is doing here. And anyone who is Alexander Obradovic can't be considered to have given away business or state secrets if he has taken some information from the company he was employed in, especially if he has provided certain information that he is actually arguing about. So, please Minister, simply so that we can function normally in the future and work and say, I repeat, that once again, something really is an affair in Serbia to experience the right solution of whatever it is. As much as it hurts or doesn't hurt to know what's true at last and that you and anyone who connects to it, or anyone else, to some other affair that they can normally, without any trouble, turn to the public or anyone else. Simply, this is a stain in Serbia's state you'll agree to that. You know, if a director has been in Krusik for years, then just when this affair came up, he as a great specialist went to another dedicated industry himself, that fact somehow warns that there may be truths in what is being presented in public as evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63476	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63477	In that sense, I agree with you. I already expect that for the next few days I want to talk to the public about this subject, when I collect everything I want to bring to people in every detail, to see how much it is a "machiavelist lie", which every day even though it has been denied "Krusik". You know, they say "Cruik" is ruined. "Krusik" stands today compared to 2009, 2010, 2011, a hundred times better in 2012, with, say, three to four times fewer workers at the time. So we've hired four times as many workers, the company better stands, they're never late. How is this worse than when the financial director was the mother of a man who was providing information? But he's not just bringing out information about it. He collects in continuity five years of information about the company's business, the company's projects, its contacts and state-owned entities. What's so controversial about that? I want to say, what is controversial, which he would collect about how Krusik is working with SDPR, a country with a state based on a decision of state, specifications, equipment, goods, etc. Who knows who he's bringing it to? What would you call it, what would you call Putin? What would Putin call a man who would collect data for five years on a Russian weapons factory and put it on a hard drive? I'll go to Moscow soon, ask them what they'll say, what they'll call them. I don't think they'd say anything other than that it's a law abuse. But I'm not a prosecutor, neither are you. Let it be the prosecutor who qualified whether there is an act, which the rule of law does, and let the court decide whether that man is guilty of the act that the prosecutor puts on him or not. That's the only thing that's clean and right. I hope the D.A.'s gonna check out these allegations he and these others made, even though it's all lies. So, not that no private company bought at affordable prices, but based on what I did, the first thing I did was call the SDPR to ask them, but it's my private thing that I invited people I know in the SDPR. Let the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Prosecutor's Office, who will, but the SDPR has been dramatically privileged against all private firms. When you take a specification of what they bought and what this product is, in this case a mortar mine, it's all contained, but I'll show it to the public when I turn to this topic. So absolute, brutal lies. I was forced, unfortunately, even though they denied "Krusik", the Ministry of Defence for two or three times, answered and said – "People, this is nonsense, not that it's not true, it's absolutely a lie, it's incorrect. Then people say, "Why don't the competent institutions answer?" They answer, but it's not enough either because it's not a good enough answer, I guess. So, I want you, you're right, I feel this topic isn't closed enough. Simply, people may not have too much information, it may not have been worked out properly, just to cover up the affairs that have emerged where one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Gilas's party, beats up his godfather, tortures him, strangles him, at the same time dealing with a racket, a construction racket in the territory of the Old Town municipality. On the other hand, they're gathering people to burn Vesic's book and of course it's not good for them to be topics. I understand the need for these people to talk about it, because you need to cover that kind of thing. They say – Yes, it's not one day that he burned the book, he's a member, he's not a member, yet he is a member, but he burned it, he didn't burn it, he joined it. I've seen faces, you can see on the Internet, the faces of those people who burn the book. Even in Nazi Germany, when books were burned, not all books were burned, they were one-ten-fifteen-hundredth, it doesn't matter how many, which burned in columns of a huge number of people, who cheered for burning books in a sweet, sweet enthusiasm. It was the same here. None of these people have said – this is terrible, terrible, I can't be at a book burning event, I don't want to be there, I'm not strong enough to stand up but I won't be there, I'm going. No, everyone was on the phone, so I guess they show the kids at home how nice the book is burned. I've seen the kind of people we're dealing with. They speak ill of Serbia every day. They say Serbia is selling weapons to ISIS. Nonsense, the worst nonsense there is in the world, the worst possible. They keep trying to replace these thesis with something that will cause damage to both the Dedicated Industry and Serbia, the Dedicated Industry, which today is doing better, but I simply can't find an adjective to describe the improvement of the business of the Dedicated Industry compared to some earlier period, which we managed to lift. The SDPR has raised a new ammunition factory of the money it earns by selling weapons, a state-owned new ammunition factory in Uzic. We couldn't turn an old one before, these people raised a whole new one, absolutely. What was all bought from that money? How much money did the SDPR invest in the Republic of Serbia's budget? How much did he invest in the development of armored transporters, new infantry weapons, ammunition? That's incomparable. That money comes from exactly that. It's normal for the SDPR to have the best margin, to make the most of it, and to have the best prices, and it's always been. And it's always been like that, you just ask yourself what the product we're talking about is, what are components? Does this product have components A or B? One that flies this much, one that flies as much, is a different price, a different product, and you sell to a private and state-owned company at the same price, one less, one better product, that is, to the state at a better price. That should be explained. It should be explained, therefore, that I want to address the public, precisely on all these issues concerning suspicions of conflict of interest, of possible trade influence, all that, what I recognize as serious accusations, I am not an unserious man, therefore, I have never called anyone in my life, to tell him – well, look, take this to the meeting. And that, God forbid, is more than that. All the permits that came into the MUP, neatly given to state-owned subjects in blinking eyes, all in accordance with the law and regulations, precisely because we want to show responsibility to the state. Of course, I want to prepare everything to be very concise and precise, I want to speak with the power of the arguments, to every single quote I've heard in the public over the past few weeks, I want to answer, I want to show what nonsense it is, although I know that politically speaking, when you enter a subject that is placed by someone to do you harm, it never goes in your favor, it's always a pity. As much as you explain, you're spreading the subject where you look like you've been doing something blurry and muddy. But I feel it's necessary to close it, to show people what's true. In the end, let them do it, I want to say it for their own conscience, because of what I believe, and let the state authorities do it, let the prosecutor do it, let the Anti-Corruption Agency do it, let them show people everything, let them question everyone, and let them question who is working and where he works, and where he doesn't work, and what does it matter, and whether one of these companies has ever done business with the state, under what conditions, when, since, when the first contracts are. This firm that's been talking about since the 1990s, since the 1990s. The ministry of Vuk Jeremic regularly agreed on arms exports, as well as all other ministries in the chain at a time when others were in power and that was great, after 2000, it was not good. I've never seen this man before in my life, I don't know what he looks like at all. And I'm ready for all of this that I'm saying that I'm going on a polygraph at all times and if I should not go on ours, on the side, because I really, really didn't participate in it in any ugly way. And everything seems to cover up in fact, that when you're doing something good, when you're improving the M.O.P.'s work, it's not good, you need to place something because it doesn't suit someone. When some political elections go, go ahead, get someone dirty so they can't answer me or keep him in that sort of story all the time. I will not allow myself, nor allow anyone else to tell lies about me or my family. I'll go to court for that. I will sue anyone who puts it out in public, absolutely, and I will prosecute him to show the people for all those who claim to be liars. I've heard that from a lot of people and in this room when they've been lying about them, that they've always tried to fix it and show that this is not what they're going to suffer and I absolutely support them, when someone's lying about you, you have to stand up, you simply don't have to leave a lie to remain a lie. I'm sorry that I took so much time explaining this, but soon, very soon, I expect to have the opportunity to, I hope in a few days, that it won't take me more, to collect all this, what I want to talk about, and to very argumentably show that all these fascinatingly invented accusations are a complete lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63478	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63479	You say, Minister, you're not the prosecutor, neither am I. And it's true. But no one, as far as we're concerned, has ever accused anyone. We were just looking for what you just said you were going to do, but a well-intentioned advice. (Nobojsa Stefanovic: I was thinking about whether or not it's an alarmer. Yeah, good. Well-intentioned advice, to really end this in the right way, don't just go out to the conference and say – nobody's right, I'm right. You yourself said you'd call the authorities, and then that means that the public will hear the arguments, see the documents, see the contracts, see if these contracts are harmful, whether or not Krusik is damaged by the conclusion of some of those arms deals. Generally, the sale of weapons is not controversial. We are building weapons, among other things, to sell and develop our "Second Industry" and no one is disputed, but it is disputed if someone is profiting at the expense of the state and at the expense of the company that makes those weapons. Even the one who sells guns and what happens to those weapons. You know, when you sell guns, you're not responsible for where these weapons are going to be used. You know what a weapon is. You produce, the state firm manufactures weapons, sells them, and what this guy who bought the guns to work with him is no longer the problem of whoever manufactured the weapon. So we don't want to turn the story into something that's unserious, something that's a hack, something that's irresponsible. We just want, for the sake of the state, for the sake of your function as you perform, for the sake of this "purpose industry", for all these people in "Cruik", we want this topic to be fully opened and to be closed in the manner the authorities say, nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63480	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63481	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to come up with a little bit on this subject from now on. And I can believe some dilettantes from part so-called. The opposition, from the Alliance for Serbia, can promote this false story about Krusik as something he will take some political points on. Of course, it is clear to all of us in this room, but most importantly, it is clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia why it is this story of "Krusik" at the moment when the MUP, headed by Minister Stefanovic, is fighting the battle in Interpol for the so-called "Crusik". Kosovo, which has applied, which has actually tried to apply, does not enter that international organisation. Of course, their goal is clear, to endanger those people who are fiercely daily, with a lot of energy, a lot of heat, a lot of knowledge struggle for what the national interests of the Republic of Serbia are. And they don't fight in words, they don't fight in their cabinets, on television, but I feel free to say as a MP, that this battle in Interpol isn't won in two, five or ten days. She has been fighting for the past few years, since Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister, Minister Stefanovic has become police minister, and I have material and concrete evidence of that. Look only, Mrs. Radeta, a list of countries that did not vote in Interpol, which remained restrained when it comes to the reception of the so-called Interpol. Kosovo. These are the United Arab Emirates, Korea, Hungary, Japan, Peru, among other things. All the countries that recognize the so-called today. the declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, so does anyone think that they have just remained restrained. These are all serious countries, and among them are some European countries, countries that are EU members, but also some that supported the so-called. Kosovo in all international forums. There is now talk about "Krusik" when the government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically Minister Stefanovic and the entire government and President Vukic, record the successes. Those in UNESCO have given up their application. Yesterday we had that the sixteenth state in the past year and a half, as we say, has recognized the independence of so-called. Kosovo, i.e. recognition of the so-called Kosovo and now all of a sudden there are stories about "Krusik" and someone who is one of the key people, who deals exclusively with the defence of the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, is successfully engaged, and someone who has shown that they can. So those who were up until 2012 showed and shrugged their shoulders, the same ones that are now promoting this so-called. alerter. Why didn't he answer last year? Which did not appear two years ago, but when some of his particular, personal interest was threatened, he probably wanted a better job or a better salary, and now he came into the hands of those who would give his political story and political points, the power to win it in such a way, through the Nebojsa Stefanovic, through the Republic of Serbia, through those who have concrete results in defending national interests, which showed that they could be leveled, that the number of countries that have recognised so-called countries. Kosovo drops below half. It is a huge success of President Vucic and SNS and our entire majority in parliament and very significant, one of the key roles of Minister Stefanovic, who showed, who went to Chile, did not let his associates fight the battle, but talked to each peacefully and convinced why it was not good for Europe, for the region and for the organisation, like Interpol, that so-called. Kosovo will be admitted to its full membership. It is not good for the security of this region, it is not good for our country and has shown that a small country, such as Serbia, can achieve international successes. What has been done in the field of security and what we have done in the field of tourism and economy development has just been done because Serbia is a safe country. You will agree, my distinguished colleagues, that Belgrade, that Serbia is one of the few countries in the world that even those who are fiercely conflicted come into it. We had an Interparliamentary Union a few weeks ago, where we had the presidents of the parliaments of Pakistan and India, Israel and Iran. So many countries that wouldn't be at any point on the globe together, and they did it in Belgrade. Why do we have more investment? Why is our growth in the third quarter of this year 4.7%? We're second in Europe. Because we're a safe country, because it's safe to invest here, because it's safe to live here, because it's safe to come here, visit and enjoy the natural and all the other beauty of this country. It didn't just happen. Why wasn't it 2004, 2005, 2007 or 2009? Because we are a safe country, because we are credible on the international agenda, because President Vukic is visiting France for three days, because France considers us a strategic partner, but also many other countries. We have shown that by this balanced foreign policy, but also by perseverance, patriotism, patriotism, we can achieve concrete results for our country and for our people. That's why I think opening this embarrassing story about Krusik, about state secrets, about a strategically important enterprise for our country and targeting an entire honest and honorable family completely out of their minds, is totally anticivilizing. I can't figure it out, but people who are able to get into RTS, try to get into the presidency, so they tried to get in here too... None of them surprise me that for the sake of a political goal, for the sake of their own wealth and return to those old days when they robbed this people, when they left 400,000 people out of work, they can sacrifice an honorable and congratulated family from Belgrade, such as the family of Minister Stefanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63482	The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63483	I just noticed, colleague Marinkovic, that you've changed places. So, ten minutes ago, Minister Stefanovic and I agreed not to be prosecutors, but you appeared as the Supreme Cassation Judge. Don't say that. If the minister said he was ready to go with all the details, that with all the documents, contracts, arguments, etc. out to the public, do not now connect the affair in "Krusik" with the recognition of Kosovo, with the return, or recognition, as you said, of the state that thus shows that they are friends of Serbia and of the Serb people. It's not a big deal, like it's not true, unfortunately, that the authorities are so-called. The countries of Kosovo gave up UNESCO. No, they gave up until they formed a new false government of a false state. So, it's simply not a topic that can be connected to this, but it's good, when you've already mentioned friendly countries and KIM, to remind you, as we do regularly, that when it comes to KiM that you have to talk seriously with Russia and China, that you have to insist on Resolution 1244 and that it contributes to us from day to day to day that a large number of countries withdraw the recognition of a false state. Of course, there is no one normal who won't say it's good, but it has nothing to do with Krusik, it has nothing to do with the fact that Alexander Obradovic is a spy or an alarmer. Neither you nor I nor the minister here can determine that. This can only be determined if the really competent authorities, and it is the police, not the minister of personal, security, prosecution and court in the end and the DRI that will inform us about the business of Krusika, about the state of those contracts from several years to the day today, the agencies, you yourself said. We have formally all the organs, but the practice has shown that these organs are essentially not working. Our sincere desire is to show on this case that we have essentially all these organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63484	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Marinkovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63485	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. Of course, I absolutely didn't stand up as any judge, nor do I want to judge, but as a MP, I have the right to say that I am against the heist of a man and of a citizen, no matter what function he performs. And it's not him, it's his whole family. And I mean, of course, you said well, and that's where we totally agree. Those in charge of all this will come forward and, of course, there won't be any problem, but sitting here in the National Assembly and keeping quiet about that hack that's being conducted in the media, electronically and otherwise, and you know very well, you're very experienced, you have a lot of experience in politics, it's not exactly an accident. It is no accident that the police minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic, was thus targeted and targeted to disabling him, him and his family. They have found him because he is one of the key people of this country and someone who has contributed most to the defence of national interests, but also to the process of developing and empowering security forces, or police forces in our country. Of course that bothers some people, too, unfortunately, and here in the local public, and here in the Republic of Serbia, but many people are bothered by it abroad. They're bothered by strong Serbia, and it bothers them when our economy is strong, it bothers them when our army is strong, when we get weapons, when we get both military and police helicopters and of course it's not an accident. So, my speech, my opinion and attitude are based on the fact that we here in the National Assembly as representatives of the citizens cannot afford to hack into the minister of police. It's that attitude and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63486	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63487	We Serbian radicals are certainly not hacks, we never were. I don't even believe the Minister of our debate experienced it that way. But you, colleague Marinkovic, talk too personally about this. You know, you and I can go for coffee and talk about what anyone thinks about Nebojsa Stefanovic, privately about his family, etc. I've known him longer than you. I know his mother, I know his grandmother, I don't know if his wife is alive. So I know the members of that family long before you know them. And we can sit by the coffee and chat about it. But here now to claim who is honorable, who is dishonest, no, we here as MPs must insist that the competent state authorities do their job in any case, in any case, in any affair. Right now, the current one is related to Krusik, and here, the minister agreed with us, I hope you agree, that this affair should end by getting information from the public without the rest. So, that someone might think, unlike you, something bad about Nebojsa Stefanovic himself, but that the documentation, the arguments, are such that if you and he really are right, that no one can object anymore. So, we just want to, I repeat again, this is neither against Heavenly Stefanovic nor against the congregation majority, nor do I know who, I guess it's just about time, and I don't know who's not going to agree with that in this room, it's high time that we stop dealing with some day policy. I agree with you, we have much more serious problems. We have a more serious problem with this little Schengen and what's behind it than this. This affair will close eventually. There are very specific things and concrete people in question and that is a much smaller problem than the one you avoid talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63488	Right on line, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63489	Let me just put it this way for a second. My attitude is such that it simply doesn't have an affair. I explained it. Because I think in one false and very interesting way, it is precisely that, that was the intention of those who were caught at the airport with 13,000 euros, although, of course, they were not right or were doing various crimes, so that all that they were doing would be fully covered. That's where we differ in thought and attitude. So, not about whether something needs to be done or whether it needs to be done with legal or legal procedures, but whether it has to be done at all. So the question is, who's talking about it? Who are these people who talk about it? I'm talking about us living in the 21st century today, at a time when anyone can come and say -- well, you know, Nebojsa or anyone here, it's not about emotional things or attitudes now, that he did anything and now we need to educate here at the National Assembly polling committee? So it's that it's very important who's talking and for which reason he's talking right now, at this point, about that and right now about Minister Stefanovic. I argue, responsibly, that this is the clear intention and clear aim of the police minister by those who are not exactly and who do not represent the national interests of the Republic of Serbia and here, so in Serbia, but also of external factors which are not in the interest of strong Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63490	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. The word has the Soul Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63491	Thank you, President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, will not deal with quasi affairs, we will deal with a fundamental policy that solves the problems of Serbian citizens. I choose to talk about the agenda and today's set of international agreements and amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents, which will improve the flow of people, information, speed up communication with countries such as the USA, Bulgaria, Tunisia, and strengthen co-operation with Europe, i.e. The European Police Commission and co-operation with the countries of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation in providing emergency assistance and emergency response to natural and caused disasters. I'd like to say a few facts about the Serbian passport in my opening statement. The Serbian passport is now appreciated in the world, and many international measurements show it. And according to the passport index in the past 2018, the Serbian passport was ranked 31st among the 190 countries in the world. Serbia is 31st and this is a jump of seven places compared to 2017, when Serbia was 38th. These are data available to the public, and all Serbian citizens can now click on the passport index site, the "passport index" and see about a successful reform, primarily the interior ministry, valid travel documents representing the Serbian passport. Serbian citizens can use their passport and can easily enter 126 countries in the world. Serbian passport holders do not need any visa for as many as 83 countries, while 43 countries receive visas immediately upon entry. These are the results of the work of the MUP, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these are the reforms that we are carrying out for both the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and no affair can prevent us from doing so, or make us a stalemate. The existing travel documents law was passed in 2007, it was amended in 2014 and the need for certain provisions to be more precisely defined in such a way as to contribute to better functioning of state authorities, I am thinking above all about better functioning of the MUP authorities, but it will certainly enable better protection and more effective exercise of rights for the citizens of Serbia. The next changes that I want to point out and which are the key changes to this existing law concern six months to the end of the passport, as the earliest moment for submission of requests for the issue of the document, and this is indeed assessed as some kind of optimal time limit. You now, if you want to travel to one of the EU member states, if you want to travel to the United States, to apply and fill out the necessary forms, you will get to that column that applies to when your passport expires. Many countries like the United States condition that a passport must be valid for more than six months before your stay in a given country. That the amendment and supplementation of this law really meant every detail, says another newspaper that these amendments provide, which refers to the dispensation of citizens in cases where it is necessary to publish a travel document that has been declared invalid. The practice so far has been abandoned that an invalid travel document had to appear in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia on the burden and on the cost of Serbian citizens. Now it will be much easier, now citizens are free of the costs they have so far and can advertise on the Ministry's website. Also, I would like to say that the progress on the Serbian passport list, this index I was talking about, is not the only proof of the good reform it is carrying out, primarily the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, but also the whole team in the government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say first of all to the MUP headed by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. You now have a passport, a Serbian passport, and you can travel to 126 countries in the world. You couldn't have done that by now. I am really proud of the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP. Also, I can say the following information to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as a national MP coming from the ranks of the SNS. You today have more and more citizens from around the world, people from the region, businessmen, businessmen who want to get to the Serbian passport, which shows, indeed, the reputation our country enjoys in the world, and shows some kind of stability of international credibility that we have as a country. Serbia is now the leader of the region. My colleague, Vlad Marinkovic, spoke about a number of indicators of our development. We are another country in Europe in terms of economic growth. We are indeed leaders in Southeast Europe by direct foreign investment. We are now one representative, reliable partner, one who can be relied on by both EU member states and China and Russia and many other countries, not only from Europe, but from around the world. They want to work with us, they want to do business with us, they want to invest in our country, and these are really facts that no one in the opposition can step on. Serbia is protecting its interests and is really trying to make life easier for its citizens, to speed up the flow of people, to facilitate the flow of goods and services, of capital, something based on the single EU market. These are the four freedoms on which all EU legislation is based and something that makes four cornerstones of the EU itself. With this in mind, I really support the initiative of President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, on the establishment of a small Schengen, which is of strategic importance for the development of the entire region and for the better life of all our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Meetings in Novi Sad and Ohrid have really come up with a little Schengen initiative. It's about the free flow of people, which is good for the whole region. I'd say the biggest benefit from little Shengen is about to have the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. As an MP coming from the SNS and who is a member of the Committee on European Integration, I can really say that the European Union is really facing a number of challenges at this point. We have one EU member country that wants to leave the Union, Great Britain, which wants to implement Bregzit. We have one of the key EU core countries, such as France, which is increasingly talking about the need for internal reforms of the EU itself, and we have the impression that the process of European integration of Western Balkan countries at this point is stiff, that it is simply not going at the pace and pace that the administration of the Republic of Serbia is now ready. I would also like to say that we are conducting reforms because of our citizens, not Brussels, not the European Commission, not the other EU institutions. The focus of our reforms is our citizens. We want to digitise, that a number of services are really available on one click, as there are many EU countries, for example in Estonia. We want to cut our time and money short, and everything for the benefit of the citizens of this country. I welcome the idea of little Shengen. It's going to be some kind of new alternative and some kind of deeper Balkan integration, because it's in the focus of little Schengen, as I've already said, free flow of people. A good example of these deeper integrations before the candidate country became a full member of the EU, we also had in 1991, when the three countries, Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary, gathered around the multi-city group on February 15th. The three countries at that time, and in 1991, wanted to integrate further, wanted to work together more closely, to connect with each other after EU accession, in May 2004, they really continued to co-operate and improve their co-operation, and when they became full-fledged EU members, which is good. We must learn from such experiences. Nothing will ever fall from the sky, we don't have a magic wand to do some reforms for us. We have to roll our own sleeves and work on our own to improve our business environment and improve the lives of all our citizens. Also, I would like to say that the entire Western Balkans area is seeking to connect economically and integrate further. Serbia will have the largest benefits of these integrations. Building roads is something that connects us. When you have developed road infrastructure, you speed up and facilitate business. I'm glad we've achieved the dream of many generations, for which we've waited more than 50 years, that we've finally finished Corridor 10. During Tadic, only 2% of the corridors, travel structures, have been completed. I must tell you, Minister Stefanovic, that I really didn't believe that we would be able to complete a historic venture like Corridor 10. In just three hours you can reach Bulgaria, in just a few hours you can reach the Macedonian border and these are benefits for our citizens and for our economy. Now I want to talk about the next thing, this is about a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Homeland, improving co-operation to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration, which, I want to remind you, is signed in Washington on 14 May 2019. The main objective of this memo is to fight terrorism. We witnessed serious terrorist attacks in the world. Terrorism today is becoming a global problem and a rapid and adequate action and state reaction is indeed expected. We have had a number of ruthless images in the media, such as those in the United States and a terrorist attack since 11 September 2001, then a terrorist attack in Beslan, the Russian Federation in 2004 and many others. Given the international component of terrorism, it is clear that only close co-operation between states can enable an effective fight against this evil. In addition to those standard channels, such as constant communication with Europol and Interpol, we need to move forward and strengthen this mutual co-operation between countries in the region, between countries and the world, between the largest states in the world like the United States. I am glad that we will not only stand on agreements signed with the EU member states in the fight against terrorism, but it is in the plan and it is certain that the agreement negotiated with the Russian Federation and which I hope will soon be found at the ratification and at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as migration is concerned, the purpose of this memorandum is to improve co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the United States in order to prevent terrorist travel and illegal migration. I want all of my dear colleagues and all of Serbia's citizens to remind me of the following fact that in 2015 and 2016, more than two million migrants passed through Serbia, that our institutions, our bodies really acted responsibly towards migrants, that our country has shown indeed one humanitarian treatment that I am truly proud of. This memorandum will allow the Ministry of the Interior in the event of a possible new large migration wave such as the one in 2015, that the biometric data of every person passing through the Republic of Serbia check with data contained in US records, so we will know whether a person participated in war conflicts or was linked to terrorist activities. It is clear that the above will directly affect the security of the Republic of Serbia and of all our citizens, because at such a time we will know who the persons on this territory are, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and we will feel truly safer and safer as citizens. I would take this opportunity to ultimately commend the work of the MUP. You are really moving forward with the demands and needs of Serbian citizens. You've launched a number of reforms. I really do honor you with that. You are making a truly superhuman effort to professionalise the Serbian police, to obtain the necessary equipment, uniforms, digitisation and reforms that go in favour of citizens, which save both time and money, but also make sure that you relieve citizens and free from paying those charges that are not really necessary, what is the amendment to this Law on Travel documents. You have shown in both work and every day in the media in Serbia that you have shown that no one else in Serbia can protect the party book, nor the position, nor the status that enjoys society. I asked my co-workers from the MP's bench to brief me on the successful actions of the Serbian police in these two days alone. Four people were arrested for malfeasance at the First Partizan factory, and members of the MUP and the Anti-Corruption Department in co-operation with the Special Department for the Prevention of Corruption of the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, arrested 13 people for persistently established suspicions of committing more corrupt crimes. This morning, preparing to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I learned that police officers in Belgrade had arrested the perpetrator who tried to rob the mail in Surcin, so these are the good news that perhaps you have gotten used to, I would say, and perhaps at some point we give enough attention to them because of these quasi-fers that we are flooded on social networks and in media that unwarrantedly deserve too much space, in my personal opinion. Also, I would like to say that corruption and crime are indeed the cancers of every society and many developed societies from Serbia, and we really must give adequate answers to the many challenges that the 21st century brings. I look forward to ratifying in voting day the agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia, which is the addition of the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with Europe, signed in Belgrade on 16 June 2014, and which concerns the addition of Annex 1 to Article 3 on new serious criminal acts and works that are increasingly present not only at EU level, but also in the whole region. One of the solutions is to offer these very international agreements. I would take the opportunity to, at the very end, call on all my fellow MPs, regardless of whether they come from the ranks of the position or opposition, to support the amendments and amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, and to ratify these important international agreements, so that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in a more orderly, safer and safer country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63492	Thank you. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63493	Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this law whose amendments and additions are ahead of us will not bring any major changes, perhaps in a technical sense, but today we have heard here from individual colleagues from the SNS that now people will travel faster, will be easier to obtain passports, do not, please, find police administrations everywhere in Serbia, passports are being obtained in time, there is nowhere to be stopped. I'll give you even one fragrant piece of information, perhaps Mr. Secretary knows that and his associates. In the police administration in Kragujevac for several years, several hundred, there were 2,000 at one point, when the head of the administration was Mr. Djorovic, a passport that the citizens did not raise. So it's still amazing that a third of them asked to be issued a passport urgently and paid off nice people, did everything, a passport waiting for them, and no one came for those passports. The problem is that our police administrations in large cities, because cities are expanding and more people are fluctuating, many of them are working under inadequate conditions. In particular, the town of Kragujevac, Mr. Minister, needs a brand-new police administration building. Earlier, we, as a council group of SRS, have proposed to be one truly beautiful and is under the protection of the state building of the former garrison, but there are now prosecutors, the Court of Appeal, but certainly there are opportunities to be with the future leadership of the city, because this Radomir Nikolic is obviously incompetent to do so, make some agreement between the government and the city commission and to either create a new building, as the new one now has a Security Information Agency. Given that I am coming, you know very well that I was born in Kragujevac, from a city where the dedicated industry has a tradition of over 160 years, in fact 165 years has been marked, and I have to because of this topic that some MPs have started, and you, Mr. Minister, have responded to that, to say that this is not such a simple thing. This affair called "Krusik" and alarmer Aleksandar Obradovic, it is only an initial chapel to talk about the problem of the dedicated industry. Don't, please, replace the thesis, some MPs from the government are not here now Vladimir Marinkovic, and you are now taking it personally, because a colleague of Radeta said - this is not about any hajka, since Obradovic, in his address, mentioned your father's name and that he was employed in a company that was privileged to receive weapons from “Krusik”. It's actually a much more serious thing, that you're like a government, which you obviously have this affair to deal with, you have a duty to report to the National Assembly, to submit to the business of other public enterprises, and to the state of business in the dedicated industry. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, on a proposal whether or not the Minister or one of you are now giving the board of directors of these factories whose head of state is supposed to know, you know, and some MPs know that there are not only these state-owned enterprises in Serbia, there are over 200 companies, companies, 60 of them in private property dealing with some production and traffic. You know what's wrong, Mr. Minister? You've passed such a law, against whom the SRS was against, because we've made a number of amendments, that your ministry is giving consent to arms and equipment, which is not good. So, we believe that absolutely any agreement on business, whether it's a state or private company, must be given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we get a final report on it. He says not to reveal the state's secret that they are now, and of course what he's running is going to order these traitors from this pro-Western Corps who use it in their own way. We as a responsible party, as a state-run party and as a serious opposition to you, with our desire to come to power, we want everything to be clear about business and "Krusika" and dedicated products in Kragujevac and factories in Luciani and absolutely all the plants they have throughout Serbia. What happened now in Krusik, to tell you something, has not appeared any such declaration, except for the already replaced union president in Kragujevac factory of intended products, some insiders, which some would like to say, from purpose. But, you know, at least it's weird that the factory's management has been hiding it for so many years, the way the losses are covered and how they are. They'll be worried about the employees. You know, a few thousand gunmen have been fired in the past 2000, since this five-October mob coup, several thousand of them have been fired, driven away by people at home, they traditionally inherited this job from their father to their son, and then the grandson started working there, the armored family, and they were gallanting, putting up with the victims both in World War I and World War II. Many were shot in 1941, their descendants there to work. Well, it's the same for you in Krusik and everywhere. And you say now -- no, it's a hickey, because the father of Minister Stefanovic is mentioned, and the other thing is, how are the losses, how are they done? It can't be, at which you value someone privileged and if they get and at which price you export weapons, and it's much more than the one who produces it, it can't be any state secret. It's never been since the gunmen deal with their question and their status at all. We, like the SRS, were then a member of the SRS, in 1996, and Mrs Gojkovic in tens of thousands of copies printed a special edition of the "Great Serbia" list where we deal with it. Where's the money from the dedicated production, the same question is asked here?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63494	Dear MPs, I hope I'm not violating the democratic procedure by asking you - where is it on the agenda? Can we go back to democratic procedures?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63495	You're right, Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm a little out of the agenda, but here's to illustrating these examples, let me, as I come from the city of arms. As for this agreement on co-operation with the US state and improving co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and combat illegal migration, you know, every agreement with the Americans on this topic is for us Serbian radicals the highlight of hypocrisy, not perhaps on our part. If you have such open intentions and think like an organ that deals with security agencies, but on their part, you know that's what promotes terrorists and jihadists around the world. Those who founded Alkaida and who today produce such things as in Syria, unrest, murder and terrorism because they themselves funded all cells of fundamental jihadists, Islamists, to say -- we will fight terrorism. Since the Kuman Treaty was signed and the Americans have come to the ground with their allies KiM, of course it is clear that there are always latent cells of Islamists, fundamentalists, potential terrorists for which the state, of course, is known through certain intelligence and other knowledge, but you cannot arrest either one of them or judge him, if he tries something like that, which is the territory of Serbia, which is currently under occupation. What guarantee do you have that someone, with the help of his friends from America and the West and those who now under the auspices of some so-called Kosovo army, will not act to Raska, Belgrade, Kragujevac or any other city? These other agreements are something that you must be on your way to the EU and because they are unified agreements when it comes to liaison officers, cross-border and other co-operation, but what the SRS insists on is that you have to take a lot more care of the country's security, because you have allowed institutionally to conduct various foreign agencies here, which, of course, aim to ensure that, with the help of those from the pro-Western opposition, they do not want Serbia well and to destabilise all of our political and other opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63496	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63497	Only because of the public's interest in understanding, the consent to arms trafficking is not given by the MUP. The interior ministry only guarantees that from the place of production to the place of transport, the shipment will be safe and nothing more. It is the only role of the MUP and our emergency sector in the event of an incident, whether we will be capable enough to react and remove possible consequences in the event of an incident in order for something of this weaponry to happen. It's the only thing the M.O.P. gives. As far as the license goes, the Department of Commerce gives it. It combines the consent that everyone else checks, checks whether that weapon has an end-user which is allowed and everything else that goes and so is authorised. So, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think the M.O.P. should have any part in it, me as a minister, it's just a little bit more difficult, there's a five-member commission in the M.P., so it's not one man, a five-member ambush, decides on every case, these people sign and decide on it very transparently, these are people who worked in the MUP before I came to this place. It's simple, it's procedure. As for Krusik, since it is constantly said that Krusik had some serious losses, Krusik has no losses. Krusik has a good profit. And all companies operating in Krusik are mostly in significant overpayments to ensure later of course and purchase it, and often with very serious money paid in "Krusik" advance, which is a basic practice which, apparently, the state has established in a smart way, because what someone would do with state money, pay their own, to show that he has his own, and then let that money work, let him export. Whether it will be successful in the sale depends on whether the country it bought is successful, whether it can pay or not, is a commodity located on the market, after all, also a stock exchange. It's not the same price every day. If there's any more need, less need, no need, of course the price's falling, no one's asking you. If there's great demand, the price jumps, like everything else, like everything else. Well, you can't even determine the price of raspberries, what it's going to be every year, depends on supply, demand, production levels. When we produce more, when we have a better product, it's more expensive too. So, as far as Krusika is concerned, Krusik stands much better than he was here before. Much, incomparably better, that's what you can see from all the data. Finally, the competent state institutions check the work, such as the DRI, check the work, and the Ministry of Defence controls the work related to legality in work and commitment to success in the fiscal sense of Krusika and all other plants of dedicated production. So, in that sense, it's very clear to show that... I realize that when you repeat it a hundred times in public, when people say it and say it -- let's see what those losses are like in Krusik, and you say a hundred times there's no loss, there's profit, and then somebody says it again -- let's see the losses in Krusik, and then the word "loser" stretches out and then people start saying -- wait, there's some losses in that "Crusik". Well, there's no loss. They were gone by 2012, and now they're gone. So much better is the situation in Krusik, and that's good. Of course, are all the factories in their intended, in the same condition? No, they're not. There are those who have so much out-of-date technology, because after 50, 60 years of technology, nothing has changed, and their ability to be competitors on the market is smaller. Unfortunately, when you have machines that are obsolete, which cannot produce at the same price as some Italy, France, Germany, England or Russia, simply, we are in an inferior position. For some products, SDPR has built a factory, ammunition, and we'll take a large range of ammunition. I think with that factory, we'll have a chance to be very competitive. It's not the only ammunition factory we have, so we needed to produce another one, which is great for the country. So, as far as the other questions you've raised are concerned, so it's in our interest to cooperate with everyone, because when someone has, it's like breaking the law, if there's no law that sanctions anything, will people be destabilised to break? He won't, he'll just be practically unpunished. So is this. We have co-operation with all the countries of the world. If we don't make an agreement on co-operation, only we won't, our side won't have information, it won't stop them if they have any evil intentions of any country coming to us aggressively and doing it. When you have defined cooperation, when you ask for some information and they give it to you or they don't give it to you, or they give it to you wrong, then you have the mechanisms for which you have the right to say later – that's why we asked for it, we didn't get it. So far, I really can't say that we've had that kind of problem with one country. As far as everyone else is concerned, of course our security services and how they take care of who works in our country and, of course, who they are whose actions exceeds the frameworks of what has been accepted normally and what has been established by international standards. After all, we also had the detention of those who co-operated with foreign services past the law and past the regulations and finally, that is the work of the BIA which, I hope, will continue to work very successfully in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63498	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63499	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Stefanovic, from the Bill's proposal, and from your presentation today from the beginning of the session, we can conclude that the amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents will contribute even more effectively to the work of state authorities, but also to the even greater discharge of citizens in terms of procedures, in terms of time spent, but also to the cost of issuing or replacing travel documents or advertising of invalid travel documents. A two-day meeting took place in Ohrid involving both Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and a list of measures that would allow free movement of goods, services and people between the Western Balkan countries, i.e. crossing the border with a personal map, reduced waiting at border crossings, mutual recognition of documents. This so-called "little Schengen" is something that has not happened in the Balkans in the past 30 years and represents another possibility for the better life of our citizens. When inspections are established at the crossings and trucks move faster, the World Bank envisions savings of around 120m euros just because of the application of the measure. It opens up the possibility that Serbia and Northern Macedonia have the same investors, that there is an exchange of engineers, that there is an exchange of workers, and that will make our country even more attractive to invest, and you would agree that we would have to keep our first place in the world by attracting foreign direct investment. I have heard various criticisms these days on the account of Alexander Vukic, who are related to these "little Schengen" mainly by those who have not moved for Serbia with that finger. What am I supposed to do now? Shut down the borders and don't cooperate with anyone? Also, the question is, how good would it be for our citizens? The problem is that everyone actually sees Alexander Vukic leading politics in the interests of citizens, not for the sake of personal interest, as it was until 2012. This can be seen in examples how power was done by 2012, but also on some current examples. For example, we're renovating the Republic Square, they're pulling traffic signs. Bastac and the crew are harassing the workers, harassing the people who are working that square. He is capable of being in his place of work as the president of the municipality, and he is doing performances, and that has done little good for the people of the Old Town. We do facades on buildings while Bosko Obradovic is being filmed drawing graphite and beautiful stickers. We build highways. On Saturday, we had another section that ended in Corridor 10 towards Bulgaria, and we can rightly ask how many highways they built? We've been talking about extra money in our budget here in the National Assembly for the past few weeks, and that's what we've been doing. A positive budget rebalance, we also talked about increasing wages and pensions, and by 2012 and 2012, when the SNS took over, we didn't even know if there would be any money for salaries and pensions. As you can see, there's a lot of examples. The difference between the SNS authorities and those who exercised power by 2012 is great, but there is also a big difference in election results. That's why they can't go to the election, and we can check the will of the citizens. We are ready to win and continue to lead Serbia forward. In that sense, the SNS parliamentary group will also support these proposals that are in front of us today, as SNS MPs want to be part of a fight for orderly and advanced Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63500	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have here a few proposals that are related to the MUP as directly as possible, which indirectly. First of all, when it comes to travel documents, there is something that is, in any case, a promotion when it comes to simplifying the receipt of these documents, i.e. an extension of the validity of these documents, as well as all the circumstances related to these travel documents, such as fingerprints, minors etc., etc., and that is something that is in any case progress when it comes to the technological equipment of the MUP. After the introduction of biometric documents, it is quite clear that one progress is made on the deadlines for obtaining documents. What was done in the meantime these days a step forward is that the current government, in particular the president of the state, went two steps forward by working to make so-called. "Little Schengen" between Northern Macedonia and Serbia, and it is, in some ways, two steps forward with regard to the government's policy, but for us Serbian radicals, it is totally confusing. We simply can't be surprised how no one in the ruling set can see what happened a few weeks ago with Northern Macedonia and Albania, which should join the negotiations, as they would say in the pre-accession phase. Did you see what the current northern Macedonia was supposed to do? She should have given up her names. She should have, and she had to give up history. No more Alexander of Macedonia, no more Philip. There are no more historical figures to be called by those from northern Macedonia. So, Macedonia is literally something that would be said in the people "a pumpkin without roots". It is now a step further when it comes to the language spoken by people who are inhabited in that part of the Balkans. He contests Bulgaria with a full or more right language in which it communicates in northern Macedonia, arguing it is a modified form of Bulgarian language. Don't you understand that Europe is behind all this? It didn't occur to Bulgaria, did it, or did it occur to Greece to give up Macedonia's names without giving up and to put pressure on the language? Second, historical figures from recent history also challenge Bulgaria. They say they are Bulgarians by nationality and that's something for us from Serbia to learn. There is nothing in Europe that will be well-intentioned and nothing that could be said that flowers will be poured apart from the road to hell. The journey to hell by Europe is just a flowering dish. Here's your best example. Here is one of the points of co-operation with Europe. Wait, people, as if in Kosovo and Metohija, the southern Serbian province did not happen something within the borders or at the level of terrorism? Don't we all live in Kosovo and Metohija when the Skuffanders count the ballots that came from Serbia, claiming that these ballots were poisoned with some substance, a chemical substance, and that this is a danger to those who are Albanian nationalities? Where is this Europol? The president of the state intervened on all the zones, rang and said, "People, this has to be investigated." Well, Europe is even simpler to intervene in the southern Serbian province. Well, that's Eulex. It's an EU outpost. Can't Eulex find out and say -- wait, it's a fraud, or is it really a toxic substance used in Serbia to poison only members of Albanian nationality and no one else, because they brought it out clearly in front of cameras even a Serb who said the thread stinks or bothers me, but they shut it down immediately? Now we're offering you from Europe a co-operation which, among other things, will be in the act of preventing terrorism in the act of preventing crime. Well, we can't be that naive. We Serbian radicals, but nothing else, we warn the public. It goes so far as to say -- now it will be an advantage, we don't need passports, we will be able to travel to Macedonia and we will be able to go to Albania, as if it had nothing to do with the southern Serbian province. That's how Tito brought the Albanian brothers to us once, so 250,000 Albanians settled in Kosovo and Metohija and see what the consequences are. What is this other than the possible fulfillment of their wish that Nis too would be controlled by Albanians? What else can a man think about? What good intentions are these? There's no good intentions. Secondly, we have affairs here that shake Serbia, and they're related to crime. It was announced the other day that an Albanian spy or a spy of Albanian nationality who, along with those employed in the First Partisan from Uzic, had sold documentation for the manufacture of ammunition, i.e. for the manufacture of weapons. And now what are we waiting for to get some explanation that there's a quick intervention? Well, how could that happen? How could there even be an affair in Krusik? How? What is being explained here, that explanation can be accepted or not accepted, but wouldn't it be logical that whoever is called, in this case, most directly appointed is, above all, the Minister of the Interior because of the relationship with the person who works in the private company, wouldn't it be logical to say – we won't explain, here, we'll form a survey board or an investigation to show what's behind it? That's how we get the notice. The people who discovered technology have been arrested, and that's a secret, that's a state secret. And Krusik is under military authority. This isn't a state secret. There are invoices here, there are documents and we Serbian radicals, in any case, we say that Obradovic made a mistake not talking to the police and the investigating authorities, but this is about determining whether a crime was committed or not. The defense in the sense -- it's not my father's owner, it's no defense. When there are witnesses who claim that the person concerned was in negotiations, what are we talking about here? Well, you don't think Europe is following. Well, don't you think she immediately activated these half-trons, these satellites in Serbia, except they have no reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63502	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63503	What's that? For information or for time?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63504	The time you spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63505	Both for information and for time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63506	Thank you, really. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63507	I see Mr. Mircic is worried about Europe. I can see he's particularly worried about that. Well, in some years, a man becomes a Eurofil. It's not weird, there were others. But what's important to me to tell you about Krusika, I'll give you just one piece of information. In 2013, when the consolidation of Krusika began, it was one of the years in which it was not extremely bad, Krusik invested 228m dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In 2018, Krusik paid 1,497 billion dinars. This shows you how far this company has progressed, and if it had worked badly, how could it achieve this type of placement, how could it achieve this kind of positive business? Otherwise, the level of investment, therefore, today's number of employees was 3.231, which was 1,264 employees in 2013, which was not his worst year. I only give a comparison of the number of employees, and despite the increase in the number of employees where there goes a significantly higher cost of salaries that were higher than they were, Krusik produces much more and pays much more to the Republic of Serbia. So I'm telling you, I'm telling you, as opposed to Mrs. Radeta, I find it malicious because you're trying to represent this as if something has been done which, although I've made all the arguments that I'm showing you, not that there weren't any actions that are against the law, but that deliberately places the affair that is constantly being ignored, are constantly avoiding the facts that we're talking about, that is, constantly twisting and repeating, as many times as you can deny it. As you say, you decide whether someone has the right to take the data out of "Cruik" or not. I don't give myself that right, but I wonder where you got it from. Who are you to qualify in this country if anyone has the right to take data out of state-owned companies and from a military production factory? Very dangerous thesis. A very dangerous thesis that someone has the right to bring back five years of data that has nothing to do with this company, has nothing to do with it, everything he could get his hands on, with his mother working at another private arms dealer's private company. Here's what you're asking me. The same mother hired him ten years earlier in that job in her sector where she was the director. And his unmarried wife. When she was replaced, he started collecting data. It would be interesting if he'd been collecting while his mother was there, but apparently, right after she got fired at Krusik, he gets a job the next day with this private arms dealer. They probably haven't known each other since before. I don't know, but what I'm trying to say is that I don't dare qualify whether it's this or that act. Let the prosecutor say, let him say there is no action, let the court free him, let him punish him, let them do whatever they think they have to do, but I also can't let people else qualify and in advance know everything and they know if this is said, it was, I saw, I heard, one man told me. Do you know what I've heard? Imagine if I were to go public in a congregation speaker, I was told by people working on drugs that they saw him and dealing drugs. I don't know if it's true, that's what people tell me, and that's what drug inspectors, people who have been around for years, say, is not the biggest drug dealer but a serious drug dealer; it helps. Milorad Mircic: Who? What's his name? Well, that someone. I can't say that. How could I say that? Imagine without proof that's what I'm saying, Minister of the Interior. It would be inconclusive, as would the MP. It's not serious stuff, so serious people don't talk. When you have evidence, present it to the competent national authority, it reacts, proceedings and court are carried out. In the end, if it comes to court, it says whether someone did something or didn't do it, and it ends with a judicial verdict. Since I've talked about this many times, I really think it's pointless that whenever anyone picks up the word and repeats the subject that I should say again – take the stenograms, what I was saying for the first time, I stay with it. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63508	Ambassador, you wanted to do business? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63509	I thank you, President. Article 27. I'd ask that no matter what I don't share my opinion that there was an evil intention, but we have to take care of the spoken word. Here is a harshly injured prejudgment of innocence, given that details are also presented, and even incriminations when it comes to events where perhaps, but I will repeat, there may be a reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed. Since anyone in a public office has to take care of the spoken word, and we are in that position and in that position, then it is very important how we comment on certain events. When it comes to Užice and the identification of potential perpetrators of criminal offences, which so far can only have the status of suspects, we must leave it to the competent authorities, and that is something that I absolutely agree with the respected Minister Stefanovic, that in a specific case without the procedure being conducted and without a reaction from the judicial authorities we do not have the right to comment on anything. In a particular case, we would just expose someone who absolutely shouldn't be brought into contact with the event in any way, to incriminate him for no reason whatsoever. I think that even in this home, not just here, anywhere we act, act, work, we have to take care of how certain events we comment on. It is not rare that our colleagues, public officials, and people's MPs, too, were often branded with injury to the presupervision of innocence. In this case, those who are even innocent can be branded. Without a procedure and an analysis of whether there is a possibility that the investigation could possibly be extended to new persons, we do not have the right to comment on anything before the competent institutions and the judicial authorities say their word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63510	Thank you. I don't really see it, MP, which is where the injury on my part, Article 27, really is. I'm literally applying the Rules of Procedure. You know that's what I'm famous for here in Parliament. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Yes, it is not controversial. So, I would ask you not to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure that I did not commit. I thank you for your understanding. The word is Dragan Veljkovic. (Milorad Mircic: Reporting for the word, the minister called me. ) He did not call you by your name, very moderately and measuredly answered today for the fifth time the same statement of conjecture. (Milorad Mircic: How could he not, he mentioned me? ) The word is Dragan Veljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63511	Thank you, President. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, despite the numerous challenges facing our country, a wise, measured, realistic and consistent policy led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has made our country a reliable and credible factor in international relations building trust relations with key international factors. The travel document also represents the value and ratings of a country as partners in these relations, so it is not surprising to recommend the American Advisory House "Nomad Capitalist", which our travel document estimates as the correctness of which has grown the fastest since the last 10 years. This rating of our travel document has contributed most to Serbia being one of only three countries in the world, along with Sejela and Mauricias, whose citizens in most EU countries, Russia and China can enter without visas. In addition, without this document in the passport, our citizens can travel to as many as 119 states, 30 of which enters by obtaining a formal visa at the border. The Republic of Serbia is among the first thirty countries in the world with the strongest passport and comparisons for the sake of it, Serbia's passport is worth more than the famous SFRJ red, which guaranteed the Yugoslavs visa-free travel to 80 countries. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents improves the provisions of the current law and contributes to harmonisation and harmonisation with the regulations that have been amended or adopted in the meantime, as well as better functioning of competent state authorities in effective implementation and protection of citizens' rights on the basis of travel documents and how they are issued. That proposal allows for more precise application in the practice of the law last amended in 2014, both because of the envisaged new solutions of importance for the efficient procedure of issuing a travel document and its participants, and because of compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Records and Processing of Data in Internal Affairs. In this respect, the legislative solution provided for in Article 4 should be amended in particular, which shall be added in Article 27 of the basic law after Article 3 and which refers to the precise determination of the time limit of six months in which a request for the issue of a new passport may be submitted before the expiry of the period of validity of the passport issued, by the provision of Article 8, which amends Article 33, establishes the possibility of the earlier submission of that request, but with the payment of the increased fee. Such a solution is justified, taking into account the fact that certain countries are asking for a passport to be valid for at least at least as many months from the date of entry, how long a maximum stay in the same, so as not to run out of passports during the period of authorised stay. Thus, a Serbian citizen can enter the countries of Schengen and the EU uninterrupted only if he remains a minimum of three months, but not from the date of departure, but from the date of his return to our country, and in some countries, such as Turkey and Egypt, the deadline is six months. The provision that the document cannot be used to enter one of these countries for the last 90 days since its validity has also been regulated by the visa-free regime. Another important newspaper foreseen by law is advertising the travel document with invalidity. The solution so far that the travel document is advertised invalidly in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" with the natural cost payment was replaced by free publication on the Ministry's website. Finally, I would especially like to highlight the problem that is generally known and facing Kosovo and Metohija citizens in terms of passports and also take the opportunity to ask the minister once more to find an appropriate solution that the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, above all, would not be discriminated against on this issue. In this regard, I recall that when the visa regime was abolished in Serbia in 2009, this privilege bypassed the Kosovo Serbs, in fear of possible illegal migration of persons from Kosovo and Metohija, the EU Council by Regulation No 539/2001 demanded the establishment of a Co-ordination Administration and an exemption from the visa-free regime, which was then made by the adoption of a special regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So it happened that Serbia, unlike other states that usually possess three categories of passports, has as many as five types of travel documents. In order to overcome this factual situation and obtain visa-free passports, Kosovo and Metohija citizens are changing their place of residence, but are also facing discrimination, while for Serbian citizens living in any city of central Serbia, the change of residence is a routine administrative procedure, citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, and based on the 2009 government decision of the Republic of Serbia, they are obliged to submit to a number of security checks and to meet certain criteria that do not apply to other citizens of Serbia. Faced with procedures that implicitly determine regular and unannounced police checks, to determine whether a person lives at an address listed as the address of a new residence, citizens are forced to leave KIM for a certain period of time and move to a new address, which means that a person has to put on hold his education, work and other obligations, which can produce many harmful consequences. At the same time, taking into account the EU's announcement that visa liberalisation will apply only to the so-called kiM. Kosovo passports, will remain only Serbs with KIM who will be fully discriminated against and will not be able to travel without visas. In all of this, on behalf of all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, I ask the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find ways to remove some of the concerns that the EU has had when it asked for the passports of the Coordination Administration to be excluded from the visa liberalisation regime or to find in the practical behaviour of citizens and authorities a creative solution that will put people with kiM in an equal position with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that there is political will and knowledge for the relevant authorities for this, so in this context I expect the future conduct of them. Finally, taking into account the quality of the proposed legislative solutions, the SNS parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Travel Documents and any proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63512	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63513	Thank you. We don't often hear words of praise at the expense of members of the internal affairs. No praise, no warm words about a police officer, and we know that police are risking their lives, sacrificing them to protect Serbian citizens. The police need the whole state and society. It's her job to serve the citizens, to do everything she can to protect, preserve and provide them with all the rights. They are the guardians of the values of our society, order and way of life. Where were they five years ago? What kind of uniform were those insiders wearing? Eight years old. How was their car park? The average age of a vehicle for 14 years, each car on average, has passed about 250,000 kilometers. And where is he today and what's the picture of the MUP today? New 66,800 uniforms for cops. How many new jobs? So 3,544, and that's for people who are very educated for that frame. The fleet is richer for 2,400 new cars. There was a hit by the drug mob, 5.7 tons of narcotics pulled off the street. Over 30 MUP facilities have been reconstructed, apartments for the same people started. The border police are stronger now. I will quote one sentence from the interior minister of Mr. Honored Stefanovic, and in that sentence you will hear everything that has been achieved by the MUP. I quote - all the results of the MUP clearly show that the law has overcome crime, that order has defeated powerlessness, and security has taken the primate over fear and that honesty has overcome corruption. Dear Minister Stefanovic, I cannot forgive your success. I will take the opportunity to announce the "16 days of activists" campaign, which begins on November 25th with an international day of fighting violence against women, where more than 100 countries participate, of course our country, and ends on December 10th when international human rights are given. We symbolically link the problem of violence against women with human rights. In the voting day, I will support all the proposals, in fact, the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents, where citizens will receive special reliefs in issuing travel documents, and of course I will vote in favour of the memorandum and the other five agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63514	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63515	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with ministry associates, gentlemen MPs, about how you do the best of the data from your ministry, and you work fantasticly. What does that mean? That means you've reduced your crime rate by a third. Look out, not for three or five percent, but for a third. Then, last year, four tons of narcotics were seized. About how safe the number of tourists is, there are 12 times more tourists in the Republic of Serbia than in 2012. That's how it works. We are today a factor of stability in the Balkans, a safe country. Why is he investing? Because we're safe, because we're building a system, because we're a stability factor in the region, and the fact that we're generating lies is so normal, so what would the Alliance for Serbia know, this party doesn't even know who's with the carriage and the rope, it doesn't have a program, it won't go to the elections. Why won't they? Because they don't all get a total of 5.6 percent, shame one. I can't get the picture out of my sight, with the saws, with those phantoms chasing on TV, fighting the signs, harassing Mr. Vukic's family, now they've got a hickey on you, Mr. Secretary, attacking Mr. Little. Everything that's important in Serbia needs to be attacked, spitted, killed, we need to be hanged, but they're not worth mentioning. They're a broken-down group. Every honor to them, as my dear colleague, Mr. Djukanovic, has said to them, I would give them all the time on television and let them talk about how those who visit them fall in ratings. The other day we were listening to this martyr, Obradovic. I'd let him go, I'd give it all the time on TV, just let him talk to Obradovic. You're a wonderful one. As anyone talks, the rating was nine, ten, eight, seven, I guess they have five percent, we'll see. Let's see about these agreements. As far as the deal is concerned, that means we're strengthening bilateral relations. That's the point of these relationships. That's how it works. As far as travel documents are concerned, excellently, because we are reducing the cost of citizens, besides all we do for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it will no longer have to be advertised if someone loses a passport or a ID card, they will not have to run, waste time, advertise it in "The Official Messenger", but only publish it on the Ministry's website. Almost, saving time, saving money, and as for time and speed now and reducing the process in the MUP, it's really shortening that time, because a man will have six months until he gets a new permit. He can file a motion, and there he is, no waiting, no lines. That's how it works. I'm just going to talk about one more deal, and it's about the U.S. Agreement. Why? Because there is a ban on the entry of terrorists from Serbia to the United States and the United States of America into the Republic of Serbia. It didn't happen again in 2001, when it died and, I mean, five of our people. That was terrible. I thought I was watching some kind of science-fiction movie. Not only that, but let's remember Barcelona, let's remember London, let's remember Paris. Something like that can't happen. I would also mention this migrant crisis, namely the fight against illegal migration. All praises for the MUP. Let's just remember how many migrants have passed through the Republic of Serbia. Over two million migrants. A fantastic organization from the Serbian side. Punks, then security and, most importantly, empathy. I am proud to be a resident of this beautiful Serbia. We have done, received all possible international recognitions from all state institutions, from all valid authorities. I hope terrorism as cancer should be eradicated. We do it really well, that it will never happen again in 2001 when tens of thousands of people are missing, and the Serbian Progressive Party will vote with joy in the Day of Vote with all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-12-0.u63516	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 7 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of acts from point. 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: List of candidates for the President of the Competition Commission, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy; List of candidates for three members of the Competition Protection Council, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Securities Commission, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
