ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67238	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, so that we have at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67239	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I would like to ask Mrs. Ani Brnabic, Mrs. Nelli Kuburovic, and Mrs. Maji Gojkovic. So, have you been informed that the SRS has handed over more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens to abolish public executioners and a brand-new draft law on executive procedure and security? That was another September 16th. So it's been three months, there's no reaction. You thus show that you do not respect the citizens of Serbia and their will clearly expressed, but that you are protecting public executioners in every way possible. So we have heard in the previous days that there are votes and in the ruling majority that disagree with the functioning of public executioners, but when one proposal comes like this, then everyone is silent. From 2011 to 2019, we have public executioners and this has shown a kind of defeat of the Serbian state. We knew we had an inefficient judiciary, but we can't afford the price of efficiency. A more effective judiciary to suspend human rights and human dignity, which we can see daily in the functioning of public executioners. In 2017 alone, more than 3,700 properties were seized from the most in debt and these are the most residential units of up to 50 square meters. We have heard that a billion dinars in the name of VAT only paid public executioners into the budget for the first six months of 2019, which will tell us that their turnover was only five billion dinars in six months. The question is, if it were all right, if there were no problems in their functioning, if they didn't go to it just to rob those who were late with two wars in the bank, why would the state of Serbia give up that money for the benefit of private persons? Public perpetrators, they 217 are ordinary privates who usurped the court's powers, have full support of the MUP and have absolutely shown themselves in their operation for the past eight years as people without any moral scruples, honor of exceptions. So, we've had various examples and billing debts and charges for executioners from wheelchairs, exorcising old and powerless disabled and single parents from the apartments with the escort and presence of police. It is today one of the big problems that Serbian citizens are facing, and you don't notice it, you're even ignoring the 100,000 signatures that the SRS has collected in less than two months. The issue of public enforcement shows a clear continuity between DS and SNS authorities, as DS introduced this into Serbia, the advances opposed it when they were in opposition, and when they came to power they supported both in 2015 and earlier this year public executioners still provide them with protection, and therefore they should make themselves known, to take responsibility for all that public enforcement in Serbia. Instead of us reforming our judiciary so that judicial perpetrators can effectively do their job, hire them more in courts, get their wages tied to effect, so that the state of Serbia can be guaranteed that no one will be robbed, we gave it all to privates and now we think how many fewer cases we have in courts that the situation is automatically better. It's not. So terror over Serbian citizens is being done in the work of these public perpetrators. That's what we need to talk about. The Serbian Radical Party is the only parliamentary party to advocate their abolition and reform of the judiciary and the issue of enforcement. We don't think someone should pay their debts. Everyone should pay what's due, but no one can be robbed. That's what the state of Serbia needs to guarantee.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67240	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go, Dr. Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67241	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, today I would like to use the right of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure drew attention to the need for joint and organised activities to address an important social issue called intergenerational solidarity. I would ask the Prime Minister in the context of marking tomorrow, December 20th, as the World Day of Intergenerational Solidarity, which was established by the UN in 2006, recognising the importance of this issue for all mankind. In fact, the issue of prosperous and integrated development of every society is unimaginable without the participation of all generations regardless of generational differences. Everyone has a role and a place in society and everyone needs company. In some ways, we can compare society to a machine that only works if it has all the parts. So it's not possible to develop, or progress if we're dividing by generation. If individual generations are left out, if the values and achievements of each generation are not affirmed, every society needs the experience of older generations, but progress is impossible without a generation of young people. This issue is being given more and more attention at both global and national level. Serbia recognises the importance of this issue, however, because we are becoming an increasingly older society with a expressed depopulation. In the population structure, older people account for more than 20% and young people up to 15 years below 15% of the population. Intergenerational solidarity involves understanding, co-operation, joint activism, helping young older people, and especially fostering family values, because the only healthy family in which respect exists among members of all generations is the foundation of a healthy society. Solidarity with the old today is a challenge, as the general trend of ageing European societies, including ours, requires a completely different approach to the issue of intergenerational relations. The essential question is whether demographic aging will lead to an increase in intergenerational tensions or an increasing number of workings will have to support an increasing number of old ones, which can deepen the intergenerational gap. This would certainly lead to the dehumanisation of society and the neglect of the roles of the elderly, who in their working phase of full capacity contributed to the development of society and cared for the elderly. Now it's our turn to take care of them. On the other hand, young people today live in a different way. This, unfortunately, contributes to the popularisation of material values and unhealthy and risky lifestyles, to the emphasis of rights, but not to the obligation that every member of society has, which can contribute to the deepening of the intergenerational gap. The issue of intergenerational solidarity is a complex issue and a requirement at country level is a multidisciplinary approach, i.e. a common approach to economic, educational, youth, social and health policies to ensure a human intergenerational relationship that enables society to advance the participation of all generations, to ensure that society for older populations provides conditions for human ageing and develops social responsibility. Margaret Nid said once – links between generations are necessary for the mental health and stability of the nation. There's a lot of talk about intergenerational solidarity in our society. Several meetings, research, conferences have been organized. The Minister with no portfolio in charge of demographics organised a study on this subject, but in connection with this complex, further development of society with an important issue, I would like to ask the Prime Minister – is the Government planning to adopt some strategic paper on intergenerational solidarity, which would cover all aspects and all the problems and contain an action plan for the long-term settlement of issues of intergenerational relations in our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67242	Thank you, Dr. Bukvić. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Milletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67243	Thank you. Chairman, I will, as I have so far, ask certain questions concerning people living in the countryside and from villages living in undeveloped areas, living in mountainous and mountainous areas, in demographically threatened areas and regions. Otherwise, before I ask questions, I would take the first chance to celebrate to all our Orthodox believers, Serbs and everyone else who celebrates St. Nicholas's glory, to wish everyone who celebrates that in health, happiness and joy, and to be born, noble, both in the house and in the field for all of us this coming year 2020. Because Serbia needs Natalie, we need to respect our tradition, our faith, and we need to respect all people living in Serbia. Once again, the happy glory of Serbian hosts. First of all, I would address the Ministry of Justice and I would be interested, because a large number of local self-governments, which have lost in some previous period, have no judicial unit that has lost in the previous period, and probably because of a large number of cases or I don't know why, in some of these local self-governments there are days, so I'm interested, because of people who live in such local self-governments, who don't have basic courts, they don't have judicial units, and they have judicial days -- will they have in the next period, in 2020, that they still have those days at their place, that in these municipalities, the centres are representatives or judges, that our people who live in such areas are able to do the necessary things themselves? Because we are witnessing that such a number of local self-governments that have no primary courts, no judicial units, but only the days in question, in these municipalities is a really difficult situation. These are the mahogany old people who do not have the opportunity to reach even the center of the municipality, let alone the larger centers, or the basic courts that are in their centers. For example, in the territory of Timočko region, the court is in Knjižvac, or Zaječar. There are some municipalities they don't have. In Nis, courts, municipalities such as Svrlig, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka and a number of such municipalities, Razanj, do not have basic courts, have no judicial units, have the same days. These people have an obligation to, if these days are turned off, when a judge comes to them in Nis, these people will then have an obligation to go to those centers, and believe me, there's no possibility. It's a wave of older people who need to come along, and if they don't come, there are sanctions for them, because we all know how the court works, works in the interest of respecting the law. What I'm asking is, that's the same thing for tax administrations, since we're witnessing that a large number of local self-governments had tax administration exposures, and now, back in the few months, these tax administrations are now dislocated to the centres. There was a time when Srvlig had his own expositories, so the headquarters was in Književci. Now it's all shut down and it's all solved through one center, and that's the IRS in Nis. The big problem is that now our citizens from these small areas don't have the opportunity to solve their problems, to sort of end the necessary things that they've been finishing up, say, to transfer cars, to transfer property and such things where certain taxes are paid, and now everything has to be done in centres, and that's also a big problem for budgeting. Is there any possibility in the next period that certain tax units can be re-functioned, that people can perform their existential needs there in the way that it was done by this period? One more thing about what I would like to say, and it is important, since we all know that our President Aleksandar Vukic has already said and announced that he will have needs and obligations for the state to adopt in specific districts certain Lex specialis laws that will give the possibility to stimulate it more, to invest more, to release employers and to increase wages in this way to employees living in such territories, I am interested in whether this is being prepared, whether the Government is preparing it, the competent ministries? The entire government has obligations towards such local self-government, because we are witnessing that much more investment is needed. One more thing I would like to know – will it be in the next 2020?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67244	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67245	Thank you, Chairman. In front of the MPs' Club of the Modern Serbia Party, I will join the previous speaker and Orthodox believers who are celebrating St. Nicholas today, I will also give a congratulations and a desire to make this day a pleasant one. First of all, I'm going to ask the director of the Business Registers Agency. Why are there no financial reports from RTS on the website of the Agency for Business Registers? I tried to download those financial reports from the Business Registers Agency's website yesterday, unfortunately I couldn't find them for 2018 or 2017 or 2016. We recently adopted an increase in the fee for the work of the public media service RTS. There is a lot of controversy in the public about the editorial policy of this media institution, which, I will say, is the most important in the country. It would be necessary for RTS to be fully transparent in its finances and that, like all other economic operators in the country, it publishes its financial reports, as well as other public enterprises. We refer the next question to the prime minister, we question the responsibility of JP Director "Post-Serbia" for a recent strike, which ended with a sort of agreement by the worker "Post". We think that she must still be held accountable for recent developments in the JP "Post of Serbia", above all because she has been an illegally acting director for years. Then, because in public we attended unpleasant scenes and situations in which mail management intimidated strike workers in a different way. We saw footage that private security was present at the post office, information was available to the public that solutions were shared on the suspensions of strike workers. The information is reportedly that after the agreement was reached, all these suspensions were put out of effect, but we would also be interested to hear from the Ministry of Labour and Labour Inspection, whether there was a violation of labour rights and the right to strike workers who were using this right during the strike. Of course, we think that there is also a managerial responsibility, because it is unacceptable that in a public enterprise that last year, at the rate of success, has shown as much as 2.7 billion profits, workers are in such a material position to access the use of their right to strike. The next question we ask also concerns the exercise of the director's office in public enterprises. We are interested in what is Mr. Zoran Babic's status in the JP "Corridori of Serbia", because it has been announced in public that Mr. Zoran Babic, after a car accident with a fatal outcome on the highway payment ramp, resigned? I, here, looked at the business register on the Agency for Business Registers website five minutes ago, Mr. Zoran Babic is still running as JP's "Corridori of Serbia". Publicly, information is available through the media that he has resigned, but that the government has not yet considered, rejected or adopted the resignation. I will remind you, in 2002, in the government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, Minister Dragan Veselinov, resigned after his driver also caused a fatal accident. Well, I'm asking the Prime Minister to give us information on the status of these two employees of two public enterprises and the Agency for Business Registers to clarify why there are no financial reports from RTS on the Agency for Business Registers website? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67246	Thank you, colleague Guric. Anybody else answer for a word? Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67247	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Marinkovic, I would like to refer the matter to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia. Why did Serbia's public prosecutor not file a criminal case against Dragan Gilas, who illegally took 7.7m euros from Telecoma Serbia in 2011. The explanation, Dragan Gilas in Europe -- Dragan Gilas, in a people known as Điki Mafia, is as mayor of Belgrade, illegally alienated "Telecom Serbia" 7.7m euros in 2011. How? By taking advantage of Belgrade mayor's political position and exerting political pressure on the then director of Telecom Serbia, his Branko Radulika, to buy four Gilas Arena cable channels for 7.7m euros. I note, "Teleko Serbia" by law at the time could not be the owner of the media. Such illegal actions by Dragan Gilas, a people known as the Giki Mafia, have more, on the basis of which he robbed citizens of the Republic of Serbia and increased his wealth. In politics, Dragan Gilas, a people called the Giki Mafia, entered as the most ordinary gologous, leaving the executive positions of officials with a wealth of 619m euros in traffic. With its illegal machinations, the Giki Mafia has compromised our country's economic and security security. When the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, consolidated our country's finances, smelled it by the Giki Mafia, and here he is, trying to return to the political scene to alienate the finances of our companies and the state of Serbia. He does not intend to return to politics with the elections, to be elected by citizens, because he does not hold onto them anyway, but with the assistance of some foreign centres of power, street and chaos, just as he entered politics after October 5th. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Giki Mafia visited the United States in 2018 for its known reasons. After his first visit to the United States, the Djiki Mafia called for a meeting at the Cacanic café Moravski alasi, on 4 July 2018, where Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Dusan Petrovic, Mr Stamatovic, Nebojsa Zelenovic, Janko Veselinovic and others agreed on a plan to take the street and chaos, rather than the elections, to bring Alexander Vukic down on the subject of Kosovo. Dear citizens, these huge moral groats, instead of tearing down Vukic, were to agree on how to get Kosovo back where it came from. So low fell these moral sizes, that the misfortunes of their own people and homelands used for their own interests. During the second return from the U.S. on 2 December 2018, after consulting with foreign centres of power, the Jiki Mafia threatened violence on the streets, a message, I quote -- that dissatisfaction in the state somewhere would have to explode if we threw the dialogue out of parliament, that place where we talk, if we stop it, if we shut down all the media, they would explode somewhere. Give it some sense, it ends Gicky Mafia. Thereafter, incidents of incursions to RTS, the Serbian presidency, the city's assembly and other institutions were arranged. The Giki Mafia was an actor in the "storage mafia" affair, which estranged 319m euros, and the Giki Mafia was linked to the garbage mafia and the appeals court, although in the first degree, they were indicted for 73 years in prison. Djiki Mafia has been attacking police days, especially Deputy Chief Goran Papic, who arrested Djilas' brother-in-law Milan Babovic with 2.4kg of cocaine, and Djiki Mafia uses every opportunity to mention him, both him and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. The Gicky Mafia is every day muddying President Vukic with all kinds of fiction. By contrast, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic is a large Serbian neimar, a major Serbian reformer, a great Serbian statesman and above all a great Serbian patriot and patriot, one of the words builder and defender of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67248	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session today by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on public procurement. We'll wait just a few moments for the government members to enter the O.R. with their associates. In the meantime, I'll read who's invited. So, Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Siniš Mali, Minister of Finance, Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Zoran Đorđević, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borač and Social Affairs, Branislav Nedimović, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Vodaprivreda, Prof. Dr. Slavica Đukić Dejanović, Minister without portfolio, Slavica Savičić, Jelena Tanasković, Danijelavana Vazura, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Vesna Kovač, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dusan Vučković, Assistant of the Minister of Business, Jovan Ćavnak skrživnaživnak, Uvrvržavnak skr. Hello, welcome, Minister Djordjevic with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Marijan Rističević, Verica Radeta, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Zoran Despotović, Aleksandar Seselj, Ruzica Nikolic, Milorad Miric, Nemanja Sarović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Sreto Perić, Filip Stojanović, Dubravko Bojić, Petar Jojic, Nikola Savić, Katarina Rakić, Dr Aleksandar Martinović, Stefana Miladanovic, Aleksandra Belačić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Mr Dejan Radenković, Aleksandar Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojević and Ljupka Mihajlovska. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Financial Committee on the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first to all who celebrate today, to their guests, I want all the best and to celebrate for thousands of years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already spoken several times, Mr. Orlic for thousands of years, of course, life span continues. I have repeatedly said that public procurement during the former regime's party was secret, and state and military secrets were public. That practice continues today. That spy Obradovic is the best proof of it. His mother of directors and all the yellow times probably taught him when she hired him to work, she taught him, she thought it was good to steal state secrets and sell to Bulgarian journalists, to destroy for a couple, to destroy her company, but to be good with the yellows, since they control the prosecution and the judiciary, so when you're caught in spying, the authorities, the yellow prosecutors, the yellow judges help you get to freedom, and God's yellow activists will ask that the spies be released, that the guilty are not punished, and most often the innocent get punished. I ask the same judiciary – when do they think they're processing Dragan Gilas? The corruption unit is Gilas. One Gilas is worth two Schools. It's the corruption units. When they think they're processing Dragan Gilas for a bridge on Adi, which, for example, should be worth 116m in pre-calculation value, so as steel, it's costing 161m euros, which ultimately cost 450m euros. I ask Zagorka Dolovac, I ask the yellow judiciary, I ask these honest and honest people, when they think they're processing Dragan Gilas for the bridge on Adi, for the underground containers, for the boulevard, for the cutting of the canvas, for the bus plus, and the numerous affairs that relate to Dragan Gilas? The money that Dragan Gilas took in by joining public office with his private businesses and private firms resulted in 619m euros, Mr. Orlic, income in Gilas' pockets, for so much pump, for so much they could not build kindergartens, schools, hospitals, highways. The only highways that Dragan Gilas built were highways towards his pockets, which ended in 619m euros. So I ask the prosecution, the judiciary, the courts, once they start punishing the guilty and protecting the innocent, and if they prosecute Gilas, it will prove they really want to punish the guilty without chasing innocent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67250	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. According to the amendment, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67251	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also spoke in principle about this bill of law, which will increase the economic and efficiency of public procurement procedures. Also, this proposal that is today ahead of us is in close connection with preventing corruption, which has been one of the priorities of the Serbian government from the very beginning, which has repeatedly shown us that it is persistent in the fight against all forms of corruption and crime. Indeed, it encourages the prominent intention of the promoter that we could hear from Minister Djordjevic that in the areas of public procurement procedures they would be more clearly and more detailedly regulated, to strengthen supervision and the system of punishment, as well as to strengthen the capacity of competent institutions. In the past, we have had examples of violations of the Law on Public Procurement, especially in the city of Belgrade while Dragan Gilas was at the mayor's post. This all meant personal wealth on the one hand, but on the other hand, that personal wealth took place at the expense of citizens of Belgrade and Serbia who were in this sense damaged. That is why, as a positive assessment, I am assessing the government's efforts to constantly advocate both preventive and repressive measures that would reduce the possibility of abuse and position and abuse of public procurement procedures. Instead of benefiting Belgrade citizens from public procurement procedures in Gilas' time had affairs and damages, we also had suspicious public procurements that reflected then and the functioning of the city, such as Bus plus, then we had the spending of money on the promotion of the city when 270 million dinars were spent from the budget, we had the purchase of software packages that were never used, then the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, the privatisation of Luke Belgrade and so on. All of which, of course, led to the city's over-indebted debt for about 900m euros, half of which was the city's debt and half of the debt of public enterprises. All these bad examples from the past need to give support to all government intensities to improve our legislation and thus ensure a healthy system in which Serbia will be able to function and make progress without such abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67252	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić. Kovacevic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67253	Public procurement is the cancer of our society and our country's wounds years ago. You from the ruling party led the campaign and got a good deal on the promise that all public procurement problems will be solved and that this will be one of the ways to eradicate corruption. Remember that zero tolerance on corruption? It was only in the campaign, of course it might repeat you in the next one. So you didn't do anything when this previous law was passed. You were full of stories about how you'd solve all the problems, so how much was stolen under that previous law, so how much would be saved by applying the new law and nothing again. Public procurement remains a serious problem and reports of all the so-called independent regulatory bodies found here in front of the National Assembly, all of them said that one of the most serious problems in the functioning of organs and local and state-owned procurement is precisely the problem. So, it's still being stolen in public procurement and serious money could still be put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia if it wasn't for this thieving and here, and this is one of the sources that could seriously contribute to the realization of that SRS position, that Serbia's minimum wage must be 37,000 dinars and the smallest pension that must be 37,000 dinars, because the lowest consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. So if we were to take an item by item, you would see that we could save more than that. For starters, here, start applying the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67254	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67255	I'd like to say that there is no law and that we can't pass and write a law that will solve this problem in itself. It is true that public procurement is the biggest problem of our society. What is missing from all laws, and especially from this law, is constant control of the application of this law. So the tenders have to be controlled. In particular, those tenders must be placed under the glass where only one bidder appears on the tender, and in 99% of the cases, there is something suspicious and it needs to be processed, or it needs to be controlled. So, only control can we get to quality, of course after these controls where the broken law is applied and the strictest sanctions, it's the only way to root out corruption by applying the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67256	Thank you. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67257	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS wanted to improve the quality of this law to the extent possible, given that here more than half of the members of the law are already in force, so we suggested that Article 5 paragraph 1 should change and read as follows: "The client is obliged to ensure the economic and rational use of public funds in the procurement process and choose the most favourable bidder. The best cure for preventing corruption, that is, how much it exists, is certainly, or could be this Public Procurement Act, but, of course, provided that it is respected until the end and that there is no predetermined desire for it to be played. The Competition Protection Commission, it seems to me, has best seen all the problems that arise in public procurement, so it is characteristic that the same bidders always report for a particular area. Well, then it was further characteristic that most often the same bidders and give up these public procurements. These are all the problems that have been going on in practice. With these changes and additions, we were unable to recognize that the legislator of this law had the desire to solve the problem. There may be two reasons: if she didn't want to, on the one hand, we don't want to be trendy, so let's say the promoter didn't want to solve it, to be tending, so let's say he didn't have that intention, and on the other hand, he didn't recognize what was going on here as problems. The principles that arise in public procurement should be respected, and this is certainly the principle of economic and efficiency, and we have therefore proposed this amendment to regulate Article 5 in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67258	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The proposal for a law on public procurement, I asked the amendment to replace the term "transparentity" in this article with the word "publicity". You know the position of the SRS that we always principledly advocate, that in the laws passed by the National Assembly, no foreign words are used unless necessary. However, this practice is repeated from law to law, but if we ignore this fact, we cannot go beyond that many things in this law are not good and have to be solved in a different and more efficient way. Public procurement is a serious matter and it is an ideal place for all types of abuse. One such example of public procurement where abuse is obvious we have at the Moravia Corridor whose construction starts these days. The Serbian Radical Party has long warned the entire Serbian public that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, through public procurement, weighs US firm Bechtel. At first, a lot of people didn't believe us, but they turned out to be absolutely right. The job was received by an American firm, although it had an offer that was higher by 300m euros than the Chinese firm's offer. It's a typical example of public procurement abuse, and who was responsible for that? Nobody. This is our biggest problem, the paperwork is covered, and the bill is paid by Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67260	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubako Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67261	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as part of my amendment, I will present the experience of the public procurement administration. The law on public procurement is a very important law to regulate the spending of state money. Instead, everyone knows that almost every tender has been set up and that's the main problem. No one wants to participate in this anymore because there's no competition. Most of the time, there's only one bidder in the tender. Without competition, there's no good offer. That's how it was for buses in Belgrade. A closed tender, only a Turkish firm reported, and no one was allowed to complain. Normally, that company got a job. It's those buses that can't stop until they hit the wall and who knows what they're taking down and pick up by then. They're stuck with gas, they've got a mistake. It's happened more than once. Maybe the introduction of an electronic offer helps and reduces that fear of retribution, because there will be no personal presence. The fee paid for the complaint is too low. Anyone can obstruct the procurement process. The point is, there's no competition. The Public Procurement Administration is data on the number of bidders, there is no competition, and then there is nothing to choose from. A kind of ice cream in the fridge, expensive overrated and, instead of controlling the purchases, preventing and punishing corruption, people at the Public Procurement Office are praised that their tariff is 500 euros per hour in lectures, what is the average salary in Serbia, and their salary is already fat and overweight. Well, who's going to participate in tenders in a situation like this? No market, no competition, no will. When everyone knows everything's set up, then what's this farce after the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67262	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67263	Thank you. Article 9. The bill formulates the principle of equality between economic operators and I am absolutely in agreement with the government's opinion that the amendment should be rejected. The principle of equality between economic operators is one of the basic principles in public procurement procedures. The proposal for this law, which is otherwise very important and from the point of view of preventing corruption, Article 9 of accessibility and equality is achieved in this way. One way of equality is, of course, a new solution to the introduction of a declaration of compliance with the conditions of the tenderer, allowing small and medium-sized operators to compete on equal terms with public procurement procedures, given that they have smaller human resources and smaller capacities. The statement of fulfilment of the conditions certainly states that, except that it contributes equality in public procurement procedures, it reduces administrative costs, since it is the prescribed form supplied by the tenderers. At the end of the procedure, only the bidder selected in the procurement process will have the opportunity to attach all necessary documentation. What I also want to point out is that during the rule of the yellow tycoon company, and according to EU estimates, every quarter of the public procurement procedures went into private pockets. Also, I would like to stress that the late Verica Barac pointed out the large corruption of the yellow Thai company in public procurement procedures and was estimated to go about a billion euros a year through commissions and other illegal flows from public procurement procedures. The yellow tycoon company, of course, came through robbery privatisations and huge money was made through these robbery privatisations from abroad, not according to our estimates, but according to the estimates of an American institute of about 51 billion dollars. I must point out that after the death of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, the yellow tycoon company, through the sale of "The Irons", of course for no money, has taken over the entire debt to the state, and these debts of "The Irons" amounted to about a billion and a half dollars. Of course, they resorted to the sale of Irons for insignificant sums of money and to taking full and complete debt to the burden of the state, that is to say, on the burden of all citizens only to buy social peace and to buy populist points for their party. Of course, the only one who has solved the issue is our Prime Minister, and now President Aleksandar Vucic with a strategic partnership with the Chinese company and today at Zelezara Smederevo is working over 5,000 workers. "Zelezara Smederevo" is one of the largest exporters, "Zelezara Smederevo" also raises the town of Smederevo and the full and local and republican budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67264	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67265	Thank you. I would do the same after the amendment, since my colleague has already said a lot of things about this amendment, that the government has given the right explanation. I think that under the draft of this law on public procurement, there will be much better things than they have been so far. So, the law is getting better. It is possible to do better public procurement, to control itself, but, on the other hand, and technically to end it much faster, because we had an X situation for individual public procurement participants to cheat, lie, and all to the harm of those who apply, or who asks for a job to be done. So far, they have had a number of such public procurements where bad things have been done and now it is possible to fix them. I think this law is much better. There is a greater possibility that this can be done in the best way, that greater control is done. Normally, the result must be greater savings for all our local self-governments, for all those economic operators doing public procurement jobs. In this way we will have the opportunity to really provide more resources for undeveloped areas, for mountainous and mountainous areas, for the areas of the municipalities that need to be more isolated through the programme of development of the economy, agriculture and all those things that I'm talking about. I will once again support the bill as president of the United Peasants' Party. I think this bill is better, it gives greater opportunity for jobs to end for the well-being and cheaper offers, normally, and to be more quality works, to be for the benefit of all those who need it. Once again, colleagues from the SRS have a number of amendments that, when viewed technically, are correct to say that this is good. It's good to say it's all in Serbian. I've always been in favour of everything in Serbian, but we have to follow certain guidelines, because our wish is like countries to go towards the EU, to have certain things and privileges that we get there. Once again, I think this law is positive and that this amendment should not be accepted. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67266	The true replica, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67267	What's the basic thing is if we were talking about public procurement, that we could see only the other day an absolute negative of all that when a commercial contract was signed with the American company Bechtel for the construction of the Moravia Corridor, because it was a direct contract, because there was no competition, because that call was written so that only "Bechtel" could pass. So, under the direct pressure of the US Embassy in Belgrade, a contract was signed with the US firm Bechtel for the construction, although it cost a minimum of 250m euros, and we saw that there could be even more unforeseen costs and more than 20%. Who knows what the price will be in the end then. So, the company has been chosen randomly because of political pressures, political conditions, and not because it is the best. If we just compare the construction of the Milos Veliki highway, which was built by a Chinese company, which hired Serbian subcontractors, we are now in a situation that the Chinese company is no longer good for us, although 250m euros are cheaper, minimum, and not engaged by Serbian subcontractors, but by the US company, which employs Turkish subcontractors. So an abnormal one situation and an absolute opposite of what should be the whole point of public procurement, to choose as high as possible and at a better price, and not without anything, without any competition, without any competition to choose a company that, we have seen from the experiences of some other countries in the region, exists only by direct contract and corruption. This is the situation in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67268	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67269	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's MP of the Prophet Radeta and Mr. Seselj of the SRS pointed to a number of public procurement problems. I'll just distract you, ladies and gentlemen, is there a crime in Panchev or not? Is it possible to spend 17 million dinars on a public toilet and its painting? So, where's the police, where's the prosecution and where's the court? I don't believe the Queen of England had a toilet like that. Who'd fit in here and drink half a bar here? Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with a colleague who just said you could pass a number of laws. These laws serve someone as toilet paper because they don't apply. That's the problem in Serbia. No one respects the law, but we don't have the authority to control it. Where is the finance minister today to answer to the MPs, and budgets are spent on billions? So, ladies and gentlemen, corruption in public procurement could build two highways per 100 kilometers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67270	Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67271	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, public procurement specialist Mr. Dragan Gilas, who else would, behold, the title in "Politica" says: "Bancrot Belgrade and in 2013. Gilas is involved in an affair that weighs 1.3 billion euros." Well, of course, it's change for him. "The former mayor managed to get the city into debt while tens of millions of euros went to malfeasance and staged tenders." We know. "At the same time, Gilas brought down the reputation of the DS and crushed millions through the 'Darrekt Media'," a source from 'Politicals' said. "He took the skin off our backs." Well, it's what it is. Literally, Dragan Gilas, former mayor managed to get Belgrade and Belgrade into a bullhouse of heavy, incredible, 1.3 billion euros. Although DS leader himself underlined that he was primarily a manager, he seems an extremely unsuccessful manager, at least as far as Belgrade and Belgraders are concerned, he has put us to death. Thank God when we came to power in 2012, within a few years we returned all the debts of the city of Belgrade, so that citizens do not worry. In black, his bridge, whose construction was supposed to cost 190m euros, cost 400m euros. Where's that $200 million coming from? No one knows. I know, we all know, at Gilas'. Let's move on. The French would make three bridges for that money. Well, their May Bridge in France had seven sawmills, our only one, but well, it didn't happen again. To make the shame bigger, as much as ninem euros were given to speed up works on the bridge to be officially opened in the New Year's Eve at the time. That's our Jimmy. And what are we doing? The government and President Vukic, all before the deadline. Here, we saw yesterday before the deadline an open section of the road of 18 kilometers, all the roads newly built, highways, 350 kilometers we opened before the deadline. That's how it works. Just a few more sentences about Mr. Gilas. The total of Gilas's rule should certainly be counted on the restoration of King Alexander's boulevards, which city authorities have subscribed to the three-way sixm euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67272	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67273	We talked about the principle debate when it came to travel infrastructure issues, so now we've got the Nis-Medara highway. Is it the same thing that happened with the Moravia Corridor now? So, one corrupt shop. Is it going to be a model now for Nis-Medara and for future conclusion of the contract for the construction of highways? Not only is there not some of the priorities clear, but you are also the basics of some procedures, so that should be respected precisely because of this healthy competition we do not respect. We're here boasting about public procurement that we're going to prevent corruption, as if all of this didn't happen at all a few days ago. There's no reaction. Aleksandar Vucic said that more than 40m euros of the Ljig-Preljina highway were subscribed as a crime issue of the former regime. What do you call this now where the minimum 250m euros is increased basic price? When we talked about some undeveloped areas, just the previous speaker, Mr. Milletic talked about it, we have a whole Zajecarski and Borski district which, in terms of road infrastructure, represent Serbia's appendix. Even in those fictional drawings that Alexander Vukic shows on TV, we didn't see anything for those two districts and in the plan at all. We see we have money to bribe the U.S. Embassy to pay for their racket. How's that? We've seen, there's a lot of plans. Does this mean that Bechtel has now occupied this area and they determine about what is to be built, not what should be Serbia's priority and needs to build, to connect infrastructureally.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67274	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67275	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 353 day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, for which they receive their salary neatly. In this way they send a clear message of what their relationship to the function they perform, what their relationship to the National Assembly is and what their relationship to the citizens of Serbia is. Now, as we talk about amendments to the public procurement bill, you can ask yourself, and where are our very opposition people? The answer to that question is - they fled in the white world, the chairman. One of them, Vuk Jeremic, boasts exactly at the Rockefeller Center in New York, Manhattan. It has been there for several days, and it boasts on social networks, Instagram, Twitter and other social networks, celebrating the holidays at the most luxurious locations, in New York. It's not the first time. Someone who would follow his frequent journeys could say it's more common in New York than in Belgrade. There is the biggest problem that there are pictures of luxury restaurants in which he lives, so he paints himself looking forward to some friends. So, at the Rockefeller Centre, the most luxurious part of Manhattan in New York, and thus sends a message to Serbian citizens, which he usually sends very often, which is that he exclusively loves luxurious life, that he exclusively loves expensive life, that Belgrade is not good enough for him, that Serbia is not good enough for him, but is also joining his colleagues from the Alliance for Serbia, who have long been known as people who live on a very high foot. If we remember that we talked about it a few days ago that Borko Stefanovic, a fake worker in Serbia, wears 600-and-over 600-euro shoes, if we remember that Kena who doesn't come to his job too, but is fine with the salary of the MP, who wears 1,500-euro shoes, which we have documented several times, if we remember that Marko Bastac, one of Gilas's top runners, caught a while ago, and that's "Your Bastac", that's what you're saying, I'm not saying that he's yours, you're holding him, and you're showing him in practice, if we remember that he's been caught with 13,000 euros and only as an allowance, at that moment he found 13,000 euros and you're saying he's coming back from Dubai or where he's already been, because I don't really know that the prosecution in this country is doing his job, and whether he's running the case when it's about that he's the case, when he's the case, the main he's a matter of money is returned from the 13 thousand dollars in the budget in the budget. Then how much did he spend there, and where did he get that money? It is a society that cannot prove the origin of its money, which, every day in every place, mocks the people of Serbia and sends a message that they live on a very high foot, that they have inexplicable and inexplicable sources of income and mock Serbian citizens, who can only dream of such amounts of money, unsuitable amounts of money. Thank you. (Milia Miletic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67276	You have no right to a replica, colleague Miletic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago in the National Assembly, we passed the Corruption Act as one of the accompanying laws of support only to the adopted 2020 budget, where I apostropheed public procurement as a source and litter of corruption. In the past, especially after a five-octobaric coup, in Serbia, robbery and crime of every kind won its full swing. At the very top are robbery privatisations, where several billion euros were robbed by our citizens. The proposal for a law on public procurement is very important because one area needs to be covered with challenges, which came first in the source of corruption. Most of those who carried out public procurement did not respect the spirit of the law, so that they became the most corrupt work. The previous 2012 law, with additions from 2014 and 2015, was in force for six years. He had 178 members and 11 chapters. The government supported it with five acts, the Public Procurement Authority brought in eight sublaws, and the parent ministry two acts. All of this did not contribute to the public’s impression of public procurement that it was a system and that competitiveness, transparency and efficiency were improved in public procurement procedures. By the way, this is a law of four European directives. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws are a strange matter. It's all the same or the same, but they're interpreted differently and they're being conducted. We used to have management, now we have a public procurement office. If it's going to be any better, let it go anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67278	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67279	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with their associates, are before us very important amendments to laws that further improve the business environment in the Republic of Serbia. In the last seven years, we have witnessed, I would say, the most dynamic changes in our history, especially when business and business are at stake. The confirmation of this claim came from the world's most renowned auditory houses. Namely, Standard and Purs has again improved Serbia's credit rating this time to B plus, which means we are only one step away from the investment rating, which is expected next year. The effects of such a policy, which has received its full confirmation, as we see on the international agenda, are and will be exceptional. The state will be in debt at even lower interest rates, the economy will operate in an even better environment, and foreign investors who in advanced technologies with higher profits will invest right in our country. Such investors who demand that the state has an investment rating give higher wages. It is a great opportunity that we must not miss and that will solve many problems including the problem of leaving young people. The time it took to come up with these results was unfortunately conditioned by the disastrous looting policy of our predecessors, who are now in the role of destructive opposition and who are full of the mouth of democracy and prosperity, and when they had the chance to exercise power to do something for the state and this people, they also filled their own pockets, some with 600m euros. They left the state completely robbed and destitute. Hundreds of thousands of people are out of work, the state on the verge of bankruptcy. They were knowingly taking the most expensive loans, for personal financial reasons. Infrastructure projects left unfinished, public services robbed. I am also using this opportunity to highlight the major changes in the environment I come from, this is Leskovac, and in the last seven years, after a long series of years of wandering and stagnation, the period in which it was almost impossible to find a job, this year 2019 we are witnessing a situation in which Leskovec citizens have a choice where to work. For the first time in 30 years, employers have been forced by market reasons to improve the conditions regarding wages and the quality of the working environment. The workers in Leskovac can now fire a bad employer and find a better job right now. There are still citizens on the side of the offer who want a job, but the situation has changed. There is now a question of pay and working conditions, and workers are looking for better conditions because they are offered greater opportunities. I'd say the first step is the key goal of our operation for people to finish their jobs. Now it's time for part two, and that's a pay raise. In the end, one doesn't go without the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67280	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another law passed under EU directives. In particular, my amendment concerns Article 11 and the provisions in this Article 11 refer to the closure of the negotiating Chapter 5 relating to public procurement. For this reason, I have asked for the removal of this member, especially since the reasons for the refusal of amendments say these provisions will apply from the moment of Serbia's accession to the EU, and we all know that this will happen in about 100 years and perhaps longer. We are far from the EU and from these regulations, i.e. public procurement, as is done in the EU. I don't want to idealize, say it's not stolen there. Not everything is ideal in the EU either, when it comes to public procurement, but they do it a little differently. They are not doing this to the plight of their citizens, but to the heart of citizens of other countries. That the warrant, here, is a concrete example that the SRS here constantly mentions, an example of the construction of the Moravia Corridor and the famous Bechtel company. So, public procurement is written somewhere outside Serbia and then there is a suitable minister in Serbia, the Serbian government, who will accept it, and regardless of what we are constantly warning that this public procurement is being made to one firm and that it is incomparably more expensive than other procurements, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and the complete government accepts it and the damages are caused by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67282	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67283	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to one part of our opposition colleagues coming to the Assembly for more than a year, I can understand them, so much money through public procurement and through a number of works carried out in Belgrade and through numerous freightes across Serbia, needs all the money they have stolen and spent somewhere. My colleague Markovic reminded us nicely of some 600-euro shoes, more than 1,500-euro shoes, and now it is time to tell Serbian citizens that you are wearing 600-euro shoes, 1,500-euro shoes, etc. As fairies of over a million and a half, two million, yachts and all. It's not done, for members of the opposition, by learning valuablely, by working, by creating, by designing a business idea, by plan, by going out to produce something, so it's sold well, so it's exported, so you earn money. It's not done for members of the opposition by learning valuablely, working, creating, designing a business idea, a plan, starting to produce something so it's sold well, so it's exported, and making money. It is obtained by tricking Serbian citizens in 2000, and then sitting in the chairs by burning down the Assembly. Now, we see that somehow they're missing that time, the nostalgia's working, so they'd be smashing around the congregation, burning again, stealing. When you sit in those chairs, we remember how the RTS burned it, and here, they went again and painted the door in RTS, blocked it, etc., it's a great opportunity to, through public procurement, through numerous set-up tenders, set up jobs for their godfathers, friends, see that they also have godmothers who are drug dealers, that Tocillo, we also have that brother-in-law, unhappy, six years convicted of dealing and selling to our kids cocaine. When you add all these jobs together, from all these illegal jobs, black jobs, gray cash flows, hundreds of millions of euros come from today they spend around the world. As well as the unfortunate Vuk Jeremic in Manhattan, in the most luxurious part of Manhattan, spends money just like you Serbian citizens, who watch this transmission, and when you wonder where that money is, there are in Manhattan, the Vuk Jeremic spends it. We know that he tends to do so by arresting his friends from the world because of numerous corruption affairs, they are being tried, and frankly, I believe that one day such lopurads and Serbia will be tried, when Zagorka Dolovac, as a prosecutor, begins to do her job, so, when she responds to the questions of the MPs, the questions of the public in Serbia -- where hundreds of millions of euros from Mosto to Ada, where millions of people from the city's "Pazl", where the difference in money from the Spanish trams was, where hundreds of millions of euros were taken from Serbia through public procurement, in the meantime, until 2012, while the Democratic Party and yellow collapsed the Thai company. Citizens of Serbia, you are now clear from where to get expensive suits, from where to expensive shoes, from where to a luxuriously abnormal life like the one led by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradović, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Cabanu Tepic, or whatever. Clearly, it's all from our pockets, it's all stolen and all that would be done again by the same recipe -- to set fire to the Assembly, to block and burn down the RTS building, to threaten journalists. We've seen, some have beaten up journalists in front of Pink TV, some have the idea that they're even banning newspapers, banning parties, banning us from talking, some simply want to put out democracy in Serbia, and I don't know what, in justice, some idea of freeing something from something. They want Serbia to free only of money and citizens of Serbia and your pockets to free from money, from what you have earned. They say we don't need roads. Of course, they don't need roads, they don't need highways, they need roads, they need drugs and crime. That is what the opposition in Serbia, led by Dragan Gilas, needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67284	Thank you. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67285	By listening to the MEPs, here, I'll admit, they're quite familiar with the theory of public procurement. But I don't know if they're being made or really don't know what kind of abuses occur in public procurement? I don't know if they've heard of abuse in the purchase of small values? Did they hear about the tenders? Did they hear about the tenders without the tender? And then, to prevent the talk of developing some debate, counterpart Arsic, who has been boasting for years that he is the author of the world's best, and also a little wider, the Public Procurement Act, now angry, I guess, because those from the EU said that the law is not good, that he still has to according to their model to work, and that's what we're discussing today, and then he doesn't let his colleague Milletic talk, to replicate, when someone mentions him. It's really amazing. A colleague of Milija Miletic is, as far as is known, your loyal associate and loyal coalition partner... Veroljub Arsic: He didn't even mention him. My colleagues, please, by amendment. What are you afraid of if he's ready to talk about my amendment? (Veroljub Arsic: Please accept the amendment. () Yes, colleague, on the amendment. I'm sorry that the law you've passed is wrong, which you once wrote, which is what your Europeans told you. But we're telling you that neither was he good nor was this law good, and worse than the law is that you've abused this now current and that you're going to abuse this one that's now being passed. The best example of that is, say, Bechtel, with a set tender, where we lost as much money, 300 million euros at least, and then you tell us -- you can't pay 37,000, you can't retire 37,000, and the consumer basket can steal 37,000 and can steal by tender.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67286	Right on line, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67287	Thank you. I'd just like to say a few things. Just before I started a story, specifically about eastern Serbia, about the operation of infrastructure in eastern Serbia. I can say responsibly that there has been work going on, that that highway that goes from Književec to Zaječar, there is now a complete reconstruction of that road, that the railway from Nis, Svrljiga, via Književec, Zaječar, is being reconstructed, which is a great sign and a good sign that in eastern Serbia is moving with the works, that it moves with those things that are very important for the development of eastern Serbia. We are witnessing that in the period behind us, by 2012, x negative things were done there. So I think it's the right thing to talk about public procurement issues here. Once again I can say, responsibly, that I think this bill is much better, that it gives a greater opportunity to do better with public procurement, to control, normally, anyone who breaks the law and has to answer for it. The savings that we are now doing, through the public procurement program, are savings that will give us the opportunity to be in local self-governments that are underdeveloped tomorrow, that can be done more. Otherwise, at all times, there are people who are willing to break the law, but once again I say that the state of Serbia, that our president of Serbia and that the government within their jurisdiction are doing what can be done. You can always find a point, a point for some things that are technical, but that don't change some important thing about it. Once again, dear colleague Vjerica, I really support all the positive things and I think it is good that this law is passed and I think it is necessary to continue to work, with the construction of highways, roads, railways, and the construction of airports, because we have witnessed that it is being built in Serbia and that this must continue. On the other hand, whoever's responsible for it has to answer, so it doesn't matter whether it's from a small community or from big cities. No one should be protected, it should not be the way it should not be, but we should all work in the interests of Serbian citizens, and I always talk about the problems of undeveloped, small environments, mountainous areas, our villages and our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67288	The People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply, and then the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67289	Without wanting to interfere with the intention of helping each other in the debate, but a few things. As for this constant repetition of the story that something has been set up for the Moravia Corridor, it is among the MPs, or not at the moment, it was just a few minutes ago, Mr. Bojic. He said in the debate today – no one but one bidder answered when a public call was called. Is that right? He said man and everybody knows he told the truth. If you disagree with him, at least ask him, how did he find out the truth, and you didn't today? It's not about that, it's about repeating what he wants to repeat, even if it's about bypassing the truth. It's impossible to claim today that something 200, 300, 600 million is more expensive if there are no two offers. No more expensive, cheaper. There's only one partner who answered, and that's it. That's the whole truth and the whole story. It's impossible for someone to say today – well, it could have been for so much and so much. Based on what, when no one else answered, did they? It is even less possible to say on the terms of that story that the East of Serbia is forgotten, and it is now a appendix, and we, who want to work, which we have planned, which we have planned, at the same time say that it is not the only highway that we are going to do, at the same time we are talking about the highway that will be called and will bear the name of the famous Karadjord, which will connect the Centre of Shumadija and Corridor 10 and 11, just like Moraevski, something north, but it will go all the way east, so it will not be a appendix, but it has the corresponding road infrastructure that we all talk about. It's even less possible that someone here can tell the story – so you can't pay 37,000 dinars and can't pay 37,000 dinars. At whose time did the average salary in Serbia reach 500 euros? To ours. Is that a little over 37,000 dinars? Yes, it is. At which time is the average consumer basket, at most ever covered by the average profit, the minimum consumer basket at the highest percentage ever covered by a minimum profit? All in our time. Who's telling us all this? Of course, we know that it's not enough for people to be satisfied and it's not a sign that they should stop, but it's all just means that we're serious when we design something, seriously when we're planning something, so we're serious when we tell you today – it's not over, we move on. We'll also make it an average of 500 euros to make it even bigger. (President: Bring the end of your colleague Orlic.) And the average pension, I'm done, we'll make it bigger. About how much we know or don't know what practice is on the subject of different fools, which in public procurement, but also by being small and sucking up different budgets, of course we know and that we are very happy to talk about it. If necessary, we can feel together what it looked like in the town of Capcu. There's one verdict from, I think yesterday, which tells me a lot about it. But we can go through all the names and names in Old Town together and get significant funds in this way. It might be interesting for people to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67290	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67291	This could be a double replica. Col. Miletic has no agreement, neither do we have with him, but we really expected him to support not only this amendment, but the SRS' position that the lowest salary in Serbia must be 37,000 dinars and that the smallest pension must be 37,000 because it is the lowest consumer basket of 37,000 dinars. Now that we're talking about public procurement and this law, we're telling you that it's not theft in public procurement serious funds in the budget that could be paid off by these lowest salaries and the lowest pensions of 37,000 dinars. We're very specific to you. It pains you to mention "Bechtel". Yeah, Bechtel's been set up. You were working on a Lex special to get Zorana Mihajlovic and the US ambassador out of the 300m-euro budget at the time. Now it's 270 and something with an announcement that it's going to be over 300. So that's something that happened. You wanted to take out our eyes when we claimed that it would happen, and you claimed, "No, it's not true, no, it's not like that." Now a colleague mentions that there was a public tender and that only Bechtel reported. The tender was such that only Bechtel could meet the conditions. You did it on purpose. How, for example, can a lawyer call in to teach or a doctor to teach at the Higher Medical School in Ćupria if an electrical engineering college is required as a condition? Normally, someone with a degree in Electrical Engineering will come forward. Don't distract the people. This is true. You've been doing a Lex special to get Zoran to steal 300m euros from all of us. You will never escape from that truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67292	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67293	The truth is always one thing, and that truth is, yes, they met other conditions and - no, they did not answer a public call. Today when someone says -- it's 200 more, it's 300 more, it's talking the way it comes to it. He could also say -- well, he's more than 100 billion, with the same amount of irresponsibility, with the same ease, because he has nothing to compare with. There were others, and look freely at the press that dealt with it, and it stands valuablely on the same side where the management of the municipality of Stari Grad, which was supported by several parties, is that, among them, LDP, the SRS, defected from Radulovici, something DS. Right? When we talk about it, it has nothing to do with who's doing what's right. On the one hand, a fair, transparent process that could have been well directed at all times as it were, what are the conditions, and who meets the requirements. Once again, they met others. Why didn't they answer? Maybe because they didn't estimate they could compete. But there were no calls in the Old Town, there were no calls, but there were direct payments to the company "Rispect legal", and then from the company "Rispect legal" in the name and last name of the council, which to the people on the payroll as members of the Council or otherwise hired. You see, for example, Nikola Vilotijevic, a member of the Council in Stari Grad Municipality, who runs the Gilas's party's municipal board for Vračar, received over the company "Rispect legal", so the money from the Stari Grad municipality's budget on "Rispect legal", and then on this Gilas's official 130,000 608 dinars. He was also employed at the pool "Milan Gale Muskatirović". It's still this nice and domestic business, so this is how it contributes to a minimum profit or any other profit, except for the profits of Gilas's official. Ivana Ninkovic, a member of the SP Council, is again this Gilas party of freedom and justice, from the "Rispect of Legal", i.e. through the company 540 thousand dinars, and these are only the first two examples. This one's all you want... (President: Bring the end of your colleague Orlic. )......................................................................................................... . So those who do not only allow this thieving, but also support congratulations on the high standards and values they have shown. (President: I thank you. This has nothing to do with professions or the desire to show that you do not understand or do not understand a process. This has to do with the elemental attitude towards the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67294	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67295	Let's remind ourselves. So, on 15 October 2008, Vojislav Seselj, at a press conference, tells and shows reporters, shares with reporters the text of a memo that Zorana Mihajlovic signed with a representative of Bechtel and in the presence of the then US ambassador to Belgrade, Scott. It has already been seen that Bechtel will take the job. Here he asked Anna Brnabic, who was already prime minister – does she know about the memorandum? She asked to bring it. When we showed it to her, she said, "I see it for the first time." So, Zorana Mihajlovic did something beyond the knowledge of the Prime Minister, and since then, we have been saying that, and since then you have been defending Zorana Mihajlovic at one point and it has lasted. You shut up, you didn't know if you had to defend her any further, and then when Vukic said that Bechtel would take that job anyway, that you all didn't care if they took the Chinese, which would cost 300m euros less, so that the Chinese would hire our companies as subcontractors, that Bechtel would not take home the work where he worked. "Bechtel" everywhere he worked made a mess, that the minister in Croatia, the deputy minister had to resign, that Bechtel had robbed the Romanian budget. So wherever they showed up, that's how they do it. And then you started defending the defenseless again. If it's 500, and it is, we can get as many as you want, the amount this job could have done, 500 million dollars, they're doing it for 800 million, 300 million dinars went out of the budget, they don't know where. As far as these agencies are concerned... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... . Here I go. As far as these agencies are concerned, where whoever gets paid, etc. I just thought that a colleague would talk about the "Profijler team" that worked on the Leader and in Zemun those years when some were getting paid through "Profiler".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67296	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67297	What can I say but for nothing? It wasn't any business done on the basis of any non-binding memo, to remind you, that was it, but based on a public call to which, once again, neither the Chinese nor the Brazilian, nor whoever you want the firm or the representative, and there was, once again, those who met the conditions. So anyone who talks about there being another lower price that could have been paid, talks because it came to him like that. There's nothing to compare. Let's make two offers and see what's up. He won't be able to do it ever because they're just gone. As far as these other notes are concerned, along with these two people I have already appointed and for whose income I have already given you the exact values, Uros Markovic, the chairman of Gilas's Stari Grad party, who is otherwise led by the municipal board of the same party in Old Town, received close to 750 thousand dinars through the company "Codeks". So, the municipality's budget for the Codex company, the codex company, Gilas's official for Stari Grad. The same man, from the company, or through the company "Rispect legal" d.o.o., millions and 67,000 dinars. Snezana Markovic, the mother of the aforementioned Uroš, through the company Codex, is 323 thousand dinars, and through the company "Rispect legal", more than 800,000 dinars. Same system and same pattern. When you manage people's money this way, I think you're very good at showing what you think about both these money and about these principles and about that honesty, but also about that people. This all, once again, not only enables it not only to tolerate, but directly participates in this, it makes it immediate for anyone who supports the power of Mark Bastac and other Gilas' obedients in Old Town. Are there representatives of the SRS among these people in the parliamentary majority? Something seems to me, according to the party's leader, that he too values the co-operation as a very successful one, with the intention of continuing it. Well done with these results, they're impressive.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67298	Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67299	Now we've heard the pearl of pearls. Says a colleague, yes, a non-binding memo was signed. That's amazing. So, the memorandum Ana Brnabic did not know about, signed by Zoran Mihajlovic, was signed in the government of the Republic of Serbia. To remind the public, then Scott smiled at Zoran Mihajlovic, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that Kosovo was an independent state and Zorana Mihajlovic only smiled at those statements, because it was only important for her to sign the memorandum from which she "Bechtel", Scott, will receive 300m euros from our state budget. How does this non-binding memorandum grow into a binding contract? That's what we're interested in. Do you have an answer to that question? Of course you don't. You don't have it because it's really true and because you can't, it's still a question of how much it's going to cost at the end of that contract, what's concluded now at 780, how many million, is already announced to be more than 800 million. So it's a bechtella practice everywhere he worked. Make one contract and then of course additional works, then of course extra funds. Little did they take that 300 million, announce they'll take more. When it does, you tell us that we're wrong again, that we're fantasizing again, that we're making something up. My men, has Lex specialise been brought here? Is it foreseen to be concluded by a direct contract to build a road from Preljina to Pojat? After that, did Bechtel get that job? Did we since 15 October last year claim that Bechtel will get the job? Does this job cost 800m euros? Here, very specifically answer what is not true. So the budget was stolen. Zorana Mihajlović is a direct answer, so you are now defending Zorana as much as you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67300	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67301	Col. Arsic, I'm reporting to members 107 and 27. You are required, as an acquaintance, as you say, to the Law on Public Procurement, and during the chairmanship of the session to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, even when it comes to fellow Orlic from your parliamentary group. So all MPs should be equal, and if you know anything, you have knowledge to say it from the chair. You missed, and you violated the dignity of the National Assembly, to say just a moment ago, at the beginning of a circle of replicas that before this signing of the memorandum with Bechtel company, it was in the government building... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67302	Col. Jovanovic, adjudication of injuries directly committed to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: That's right now. ( ) She was just speaking from a colleague of Radeta. Are you telling me I should have warned your colleague, Veronica Radet? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Let me finish. ) Right to replica, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67303	Speaking of fantasies, that's what you said yourself, that's not what I said. This is a non-binding memo, so this, as I have already mentioned, is said by these sources ideologically close to your Bastac and to you, who write for these skiddish Sundays in which they speak all the worst they can think of at the expense of both Alexander Vukic and SNS and our representatives in the Serbian government. So, if you agree with them, and I'd say based on these exposures that you agree, then go ahead and agree in this segment. I don't think that's a big deal, that's what your MP says. So Mr. Boyic is saying these things that I was talking about earlier. If you don't trust me, trust yourself. As for what happened in Croatia, I have to admit it's very nice. Knowing or thinking that I know what the SRS thinks about Croatia, I would expect you to look forward to if there were any problems, whether it's Bechtel or someone else involved, and you find yourself sad that Bechtel made a proposal for Croatia. I didn't know you were correcting attitudes in that sense, but let's make it the least of it. What's a little bit more important for the people who are directly concerned and whose money goes directly into the pockets of Gilas's officials thanks to your cooperation in Old Town? It is important that with these four people I've already talked about, people know that Nikola Suknjajic, who runs the municipal board, now whether it's Jeremy's Party or Gilas's alliance, they can't agree on it themselves, on Rakovica, through the company, again "Rispect Legal" got 733.198.00 dinars. Well done. So, people's money from the municipality's budget to a private company, and from a private firm again to Gilasov, or Jeremic's official. That's a fantastic move. Nikola Luština, who works in the municipal department, re-opptine Stari Grad, according to the same form through the company “Rispect legal” 507.000,00 dinar, something more. Well done, I must humbly admit, compared to these previous 730 skirts, this is a little more modest. Branislav Vuković, a committee member again, had already been in the municipality of Stari Grad and again Gilasov The Party of Freedom and Justice, through the company "Rispect legal" 845,000.00 and slightly more dinars, and through the company "Codeks", so he is now in the group of those I have already read, who receive through both companies, 890.900,00, almost 891.000,00 dinars. By supporting this kind of activity, making it possible and participating in it, I think that in the best possible way you show how you feel about a proper relationship with people's money and the responsibility of any kind. So these are fantastic results and I congratulate them again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67304	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67305	You have again violated Article 27(1) and Article 103, Article 1, 2nd and 3rd. Mr. Arsic, you turned off the microphone in the first minute of my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure's injury. You said I didn't sign up on time. I tried that, but the unit I'm using and the microphone wasn't operational for three days, and only from the third attempt did I manage to identify myself and get the opportunity to sign up for the speech. So if you respect that, then let me explain what the injury is in. She was just and now made by you, during the presentation of fellow Orlic. Is that okay? So, you were obliged now, as you were and when I failed to get my word, to say that by protecting the dignity of the National Assembly, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accepted an agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the United States on co-operation in the area of infrastructure and there is the key to everything. The agreement was signed a month before the agreement, i.e. a memorandum with Bechtel. And let me remind you, since you must have quickly forgotten, Scott left, but you were left with Zorana, who is the direct lobbyist "Bechtella". It is she who is responsible for the citizens paying 300m euros more this corridor. Scott, in her presence, said in the government building of the Republic of Serbia that Kosovo is independent. Is that what happened? You've gone beyond that, you're dealing with some trivial things now, instead of admitting to the citizens of Serbia exactly that. Here, there is a minister who can also confirm that the memorandum was signed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that is the key to everything. Mr. Arsic, in this law you made the same member and you said, that you could give back to a similar "Bechtel" business, if there is an interstate agreement in co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects, then the thing for you is easier and clear, you will give the job to whoever Zoran brings or someone like that, if you do not take your mind and do not clean up and who want Serbia's evil from the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67306	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, I cannot really understand how I would from the presidency would violate the dignity of the National Assembly if the National Assembly passed the law, or if a legal proposal is in the process of adopting the presidency to do so violates the dignity of the National Assembly. As you have now said, there is co-operation in the area of infrastructure with other countries, these other countries can also be Russia and China, and explicitly in the law, which is a general act such as this type of law, there cannot be an explicit country. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67307	In the absence of arguments, a colleague begins to be impertinent. Here, I'll answer only two of his questions, two of his remarks. What is the attitude of the SRS towards the people's money, as he said by talking about the Old Town? Well, the kind he's in Požega County. There we were with the advances in power and all the advances due to the thieving of the furniture at the time, all the advances ended up in custody because they were stealing people's money from Požeta, and the Serbian radicals were gone. Now you've brought in a long set and we've moved on with them. We hope you stabbed the honest one this time. As for the observation that we are supposed to be sad about the Croats, because Bechtel stole the Croats, imagine what nonsense that is. Yes, Bechtel stole Romanians, Croats, but unfortunately we are sad that "Bechtel", thanks to Zoran and Scott, came here and stole our budget. Because Scott, Zorana and Bechtel stole our budget our people can't receive the lowest pension of 37,000 dinars, so we can't have the minimum minimum of 37,000 dinars, and the consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. Answer, gentlemen, for the sake of the public, you from the government, why don't you accept the SRS proposal that the lowest salary in Serbia must be 37,000 dinars? Why don't you accept the position of the SRS that the lowest pension must be 37,000 dinars? We tell you from day to day where to get that money. Among other things, this is the 300 million you gave to Bechtel.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67308	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67309	That's what I'm trying to explain now. Just as I trust you to be very sad that Bechtel made some white in Croatia, I trust you so much for these stories of 200, 300 million etc., no less or less. As far as the Požega story is concerned, it's always interesting that a case that is living is proof that there are no unprotected, untouchable to us and that party membership means nothing to us, you consider an example of a situation that doesn't suit us in some sense. No, it's actually very appropriate for us to know that political belongings mean nothing to us. There's a responsibility to the people's money, as I said, yes, that's what I said, or it doesn't exist. We, as you can see, are showing it. We also suggest that it is inevitable that a similar development may occur in the Old Town municipality. You know, when the budget inspection comes and determines these problems that I'm talking about, it's serious. Just as Vojislav Seselj noticed, in a debate with me he said – we will accept it and admit it when he determines the budget inspection. Well, congratulations, she found out. If you want to continue to support these activities, then do it very consciously and participate in something that is controversial and serious at the same time, according to your leader. I'm not saying anything anymore. What did the budget inspection say? She found that from 2016 to today, through these two companies that I told you about, the private companies that Bastac is working with in black and inn money from the citizens of Old Town, over 200 million dinars has been sucked this way. Over 200 million! If you ask me what this has to do with a projected minimal in Serbia, it's big. You see, when Bastaceans ruled all over Serbia, I'm not saying that it was everywhere with your help, it was in Belgrade as it is now in Old Town, it may not be in many other places, but when they ruled Serbia, it was impossible for a minimumer like today to amount to more than 30,000 dinars. You know how big he was in their time? It's about twice as low. It was impossible for anyone to say seriously, as we say today – don't worry about anything, there will be a minimum profit and 37,000. We'll do that, too, by working patiently, by working hard, by acting domestically and saving. Well, when we get from 16,000 of theirs to over 30,000, don't worry, we'll pick it up in the year ahead of us, in the year after that, and we'll keep working so that it's always just going to plus. Those who, through the Code of Royals, "Rispect Legal" and other gods and today, transfer hundreds of millions of people's money into their own pockets, such as these ten I told you about, but as an example of it, Ana Folgić, a board member in the Old Town Municipality, did not mention it until now, and yet from Gilas's party, through the 564,000 dinars and a little more, and through the "Rispect of Legal" 800,000 dinars and a little more. So, if these are the results that are supposed to show a household relationship, I can only congratulate you on these results, you have done a fantastic thing by supporting this and by knowingly participating in crime that can end not as some kind of Pozega, but as something that Serbia has not seen yet, because like Bastac, which you hold in power there, I think no one could dream in Serbia, let alone see in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67310	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67311	A little further on the Preljina-Pojate road, about the theft of 300m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget. For starters, I don't know if you know, ask around, if you don't know, how many court proceedings have already been initiated in the territory of Vranjačka Banja municipality because land is taken without expropriation. So they come and say, "This is what you get, thank you, goodbye, and the land goes away, the house goes away." Imagine, there was an opportunity to visit a part of the house. No, it's all coming down. I don't know if you know how many damages proceedings have already been initiated in Kruševac municipality territory, where city authorities changed the purpose of land in 2015, so that now the people to whom this land is being taken away from for the construction of this highway would get less compensation. Do you know, knowing who will eventually pay for all this when these court proceedings for damages are over? And it will end, believe me, in behalf of that people, for the benefit of these parties, because people are brutally stolen. You're gonna say we're in trouble with the freeway again. No, we don't mind the thieving of highways, the thieving of the budget at the beginning, the thieving of the people, whom you say is looking forward to the highway. Imagine the joy of someone taken away from the land where the highway and houses on that land will pass, and the fees and the dinars have not been received because they cannot be settled, because the state will not pay as much as the real price. Well, all-knowing gentlemen, when these proceedings are over, then we're going to ask you how much money from the budget went on behalf of the damage to all these procedures that are in progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67312	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67313	There's been a lot of untruth, of course, and many of us have already been denied here. But when it comes to Kruševec, when it comes to Vranjska Banja, be at least correct, so admit that these cities, among other things, will get the highway thanks to this programme that we have designed and managed to provide funds where they could never have been while all the Bastacians, Gilasi and similar ones, which you now support, were wondering about how people's money would go and what they were spending on. So, right now these people, yes, are looking forward to having the opportunity to have two years or a slightly more modern route, the highway, the quality of getting the right telecommunications infrastructure along with it, which can only be laughed at by one who doesn't understand how important it is. And one and the other, of course, allows there to be more there tomorrow, to be more investments and to connect many more places, and Cicevic and Triestenik and continue down on your own. Both Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 to be connected to each other. And when someone says we're protesting because we're not happy with how it's financed and how much the highway you're working on, or the highways we're working on. Does this mean that he will boycott them, that he will not drive and that he will not drive already, on the highway “Milos the Great”, that he will not drive and that he will not drive already newly built parts of Corridor 10, either on the southern arm or on the eastern leg. Well, tomorrow it's going to be so boycotted by this Moravia Corridor or that Schumadian who's supposed to connect central Serbia to the east. Something I'm not sure they'll boycott, because it shows practice. Those who talk so much like to use the benefits of what establish a serious and responsible authority. You remember how they talked about how they're talking all the worst about democracy in the 2016 elections, the ones that aren't in the O.R. Do they boycott mandates? He wouldn't say anything. Are they boycotting the cash register? I don't think so again. Are they boycotting the broken travel costs for the sessions of all those strong, unaccounted-for sessions? Well, there's something I wouldn't say. Well, the same thing you're saying right now, what you're saying about highways, they're driving on those highways all at sixteen. And I think that's a good indicator of what anyone really means. Someone here can pretend to be badly hit and bereaved that some damage may have occurred somewhere in Croatia and Albania. As dishonest as he is, he is so dishonest in feeling what he really thinks and how much he appreciates that this country today has bigger salaries, which has bigger pensions, which has highways that no one else has been able to provide and what the message is coming today, and that's all you'll ever hear from us. It's not enough, we want more and we'll make more highways, but bigger salaries and bigger pensions. There's only one thing I have to add to that, you in the meantime, if you can help, if you don't have to, and at least stop taking people's money around Old Town. You heard, it's a shame in those dimensions that it's just a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67314	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67315	Demagogy, exchange of thesis, and finally insolence, that we take some money. So we're talking about the 300m euros you took. Now, here you are, so you see which one of you is, if we're gonna be rude, then that's what we're gonna do. Demagogy and substitute thesis when the man is now talking about whether someone's not going to travel that highway, does someone get in the way of the highway? Of course they'll travel, they'll pay the toll you've collected by 12%, and they'll travel if the road takes it that way. And we don't ever say once in all this time that we don't mind the construction of highways, and you plan on being rude. You're building highways, but you're building on a tender, you're hiring our companies, you're hiring friendly Chinese companies, you're hiring companies that are going to hire our contractors, and you're not stealing on these big jobs to hide behind it, so we're building a highway. It says – will these people who live in Kruševec, who live in Vrnjak Banja, use the highway. Of course they will, but that doesn't mean you haven't damaged them and they won't get the money in court because you took their land without the completion of the expropriation fee procedure. Answer that question, say we're lying. Oh, we're not lying. This is true. This is the whole truth, and now that you want to turn the story around like we heard yesterday that we're gonna be traveling to Chuck for an hour, so here I am going to get to Chuck in an hour, but we need to get involved from here an hour. Well, don't make everything out of it. Yes, it's wonderful that this road was built, it's wonderful that it will shorten the journey to Cačka, but it's not only what Orlic, which clickes like this, was in that video, so it's being transferred directly there somewhere. This is still reality, this is life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67316	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67317	If you point out that a new section of the “Milos the Great” highway is open from Surcin to Obrenovac. You're right, it's open. He ended up in a serious state, she did what others were just talking about, and no one was even close to him. She did. If that's what you wanted to congratulate, you've got something to say. But you don't have to cross that part of the clock like you just said, it takes a lot less, though, I don't know what kind of driving style you prefer, I don't want to get into it, you have the right to drive slower if you feel so comfortable. But to know that it is possible to reach the territory of the city of Belgrade to the city of Cačka in less than an hour and that traffic regulations are fully respected in less than an hour. If you're interested, right from downtown, to Obrenovac how much you need. Brother, brother, surely more than twice what you said. But if we weren't chasing each other in five or ten minutes more or less, just one thing to ask, let's be honest and compare that hour to what it was like before that highway opened. Well, say it was better to take the highway two and a half hours from Belgrade to Cačka, that it was better and better and that it was not worth investing in, look for ways and in this search for ways, to also hire our companies as performers, engage our material in construction. It's all done, don't worry, it's done. Say it was better that way by the magistrate's office, so, Blonde, two-and-a-half hours, and if you're lucky, if you don't get caught by a column of buses or trucks, at all the risks. And remember how dangerous that was and what it meant in human lives. Everyone's gonna tell you honestly, people, this is great. This highway we have now, including this new segment that I assume you wanted to congratulate, which connects Surcin and Obrenovac, so that's great and everyone can just be happy about it. I'm telling you one thing, none of those people you're talking about, who live along new paths, say it was better before, because those people know better than all of us here, what it looked like and what it looks like now. When factories come and come, among other things, because they have a proper infrastructure somewhere. Well, you know how many investors, among other things, ask first, and where is the nearest highway compared to that location, and what is the approach between the other and the communication infrastructure? These people know how precious it is and how much new work comes with new roads, these people mean. The new job includes both higher standards and higher average wages. Now I'm telling you, the average is 500 euros, and we're going to do it yet, because we know it's not hard enough still living, even though it's where and where better than in Gilasovo and Tadic's time, but there will be even more wages, but for those people for whom the alternative was zero, who had zero wages because they didn't have a job at all, for those people who didn't have a road. What's in Serbia today, so it's such a big difference that they can only smile like me when I hear something as sorry about the sadness in Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67318	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67319	So when we talked here about that Lex specialis based on which Bechtel stole 300m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget, we warned that you had mispredicted the expropriation procedure, that you had predicted it contrary to the Expropriation Act. If you don't believe it, look at the stenograms, we talked about it. What's going on today? There's been an application of that law like we said. It happens that you rob a people along the route from Prelina to Pojat. You take people's land, you tear down houses, without determining proper compensation. Is that true? Yes, it is. Does that mean we don't need highways? It doesn't. That means we need highways, we need corridors, but we need an honest government that's going to do it honestly, and that's what everybody really is benefiting from, without being individually damaged by citizens, and that's happening now. Have you solved the Morava current along this highway? You didn't, nor will you solve it, we told you about it when you were a lex specialist and you won't solve it again, because you let that mob, the sand mob, that stole sand on Moravi, which your Vela Ilic still formed and cherished well while he was yours, while he was your minister. All over the surface, all the parcels of people have gone through this, and it will be good for you now that you won't pay people for expropriation, and people imagine absurdity, to these non-existent parcels pay taxes and pay disposal, and to them in Morava. You're the only one who can do that. Of course, what else do we expect from you? Nice, bravo for corridors, bravo for highways, as Mrs. Malusic would say, but alas, let the people live a little better, give the lowest salary of 37,000 dinars, the lowest pension of 37,000 dinars, and let's go further up that basket, and then pay and pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67320	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go, Doctor Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67321	The creation of conditions for the people to live better, so that's exactly what we do. You know what's interesting? Looks like nobody's dealing with anything but us. If you say it's not good for a minimum profit, as it is now, to be over 30,000 dinars, and was it 16,000? Just that difference to explain and understand. It's not good for these over 30,000, and I guess it was good for those 16,000 dinars, or to convert it into euro, so you can say how much it was, and what is it now? Among other things, it's easy, because the course has been stable for years, already. Isn't it a good stable course, and it was the one that changed 50%? Or simply enough to say, you stole as much and as much evidence as there is none, which makes no sense, it doesn't matter, that everyone benefits, that's exactly what we fight for and we grow old. These stories, Lex specialise, so that the other law that regulates the issue of expropriation wouldn't apply, so now it's terrible. Here, as if I was listening to Balša Bozovic when we talked about "Belgrade on Water" from word to word. Do you agree now with Balša Bozovic, I don't understand you anymore? When we talked about "Belgrade on Water", and you supported this project if I am not mistaken and you supported the approach to realisation, they said what you are saying today. Did we have special laws that regulate those projects that are of strategic interest? Not only when it comes to these corridors or the "Belgrade on Water", but when it comes to the gas pipeline coming from the Russian Federation, did we also edit the question when it comes to "Smederjev Ironworks"? Is it possible that now all of a sudden you're no longer supporting any of this, that something like conceptually bothers you? The SRS MPs in Europe said it was a little different. Well, it's not. So Europe is going to tell you -- that we're asking everything to be strictly, in the tender, that you know in the bang. They themselves, when it comes to strategic projects, work in the same way as we regulate in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the project of strategic importance, then it means doing it differently, talking directly to whoever has the capacity to participate in the project. It's what the whole modern world does, and it's what they do in Europe if you want out of it. And those things that you supported until yesterday, and that are both gas infrastructures and the rescue of "The Iron" but also the construction of the Belgrade city in that sense and in that direction that was absolutely not possible, except in the story, at the time of your Gilas and Bastac, I'm surprised that you're giving up. For what? Because of a congregation discussion. You know, this session, just like this mandate, goes on this year, so after a while, when people turn back, you know what they're going to say about this year and this time? It will say -- when Aleksandar Vucic takes care of Serbia, when the SNS took care of Serbia, then the roads were built, then the salaries rose 50% on average and continued to grow after 2019, so maybe in a year, they became even bigger, we will see. Then hundreds of thousands of people came to work, then companies in thousands of Serbia arrived, then it was a time of development, then it was a time of low inflation, a stable course, and it would be the memories of people at this time today. Is there gonna be anything left of the story that some mobster was stealing sand? To be perfectly honest with you, compared to these things I'm talking about, compared to the importance of these things I'm talking about, there won't be a grain of sand left on a grain of sand. With all that, just one thing to say at the very end. Make sure that where you have responsibilities to do it the best possible way, so just one little thing to do to me, here sometimes it is at the level of personal service and personal application, make sure there is no more local budget living sand for all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67322	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67323	Like this, 14,000 or 16,000 dinars is really less than 27,000 dinars, but you are the authority that, when you promised seven years ago, you said – if in six months everyone in Serbia doesn't feel that they will live better, we will all withdraw. Of course,... And six years and many don't feel that they'll live better, you don't back down, but you let it go was once a minimum of 16,000, so do you think it's better than now it's 30,000? First, it's not 30,000 now. (Ljiljana Malušić: Yes. It's not. Who says it is? Well, let's read something. The hosts who celebrate today's christening glory of St. Nikola and the minimumer received 27,022 dinars. (Vladimir Orlic: They did not receive today, nothing is paid. ) So, this minimum of 30,022 being from next year, so this whole year is another 27,000, but the minimum of 30,022 dinars doesn't satisfy the lowest consumer basket that is 37,000 dinars and we insist that you do, as a powerful government, as the best, as the smartest, as someone who has done a miracle in the country, let's make a miracle that the people start to live better. Two million people in Serbia, 300,000 are on the minimal, plus 400 on the edge above the minimum, plus more than a million pensioners with pensions of up to 22,000 dinars, so two million people in Serbia receive either salary or pension, which is nowhere near the lowest consumer basket, which is 37,000 dinars. Now, that's what you're asked to do, and that's what we Serbian radicals are asking you to do, and we'll certainly do it when the citizens ask us to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67324	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67325	We don't understand each other for one single reason, because you don't want to understand each other. We say ourselves – gentlemen, no one claims that life in Serbia is easy, that life in Serbia is today's comfort. We say we know it's hard and we know it has to be even better. And that's why we say, yes, and we're going to work to make it even better, but just respect that fact that we remember what it was like, that from the average of 329, we've made an average of 500 euros and we said we wouldn't stop, that we're going to do more. We are aware that this is not what can make a man, an average citizen, if you want to make him happy, certainly something more satisfying, perhaps significantly more satisfied than he was, but there is still much work to be done. And who else is going to take that job out? Who else is going to work? I don't see anyone else in Serbia showing that he's capable of making that kind of change. Those who held the average to 329 euros did not care about anything. You need to know and gain the trust of the citizens, win, and show in part what and how you can. When we talk about Old Town, that's all I'm talking about, someone's going to say tomorrow - here's an example of who, what and how much he can do. I'm afraid it's not a bad example, not just for those who take part in the local government, but above all for the people who have to suffer it all, which is why I'm mentioning it. As for how Serbia should move, there is a minister present. I personally heard him say two or three times – the plan of this country is not to cost a minimum profit of 30,000, as much as you said it would be in seven days, but to continue to fill in what statistics report as a minimum consumer basket, to cover each other, to make this relationship one to one. Do you remember, in this "famous" time, when the minimum profit was twice as low, when the course raged by 50% compared to today, in those glorious times when the average earnings were 320 and some euro, what was the coverage of the minimum consumer basket with minimum earnings? Here, today, let me tell you, 10% to 15% less than today. And you think they thought they were going to take those measurements to make the coverage complete? They didn't care. These people, therefore, once again, by name and last name, people like Dragan Djilas, Buko Jeremic, Boris Tadic, thought only of themselves. Serbia sees a fundamental difference there because it wants to work further with people who have shown they can create a highway, that they can bring in an investor, that they can build a factory, that they can raise wages, continue to do all these things and move forward or return to that time. What do you think citizens will say, among other things, what will those in Old Town who watch this coded crime every day? You know the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67326	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67327	Here, let's recap. Compared to the Law on Public Procurement, which we are talking about today, we have proven and no one has convinced us otherwise that contrary to the provisions on public procurement "Bechtel" stole the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 300m euros, and we dare say Zoran Mihajlovic, because it concluded the previous memorandum and later the contract with Bechtel in the presence of Scott. The second conclusion of this debate is that you, who represent yourself as the best government in the world, once promised, about six, seven years ago, before you took power, that you would provide a country with zero tolerance to corruption. That every day or every month or every two months you arrest for one of your own, is not proof that you're serious anti-corruption fighters, it's a crime, but you've put and held in office, and you're still holding on to the functions of people who are prone to corruption, so when someone gets caught, when you have to, you arrest, and there's a lot of those you haven't arrested yet, and it's a long time ago. The most important thing in such a successful state, as you want to present here today, after all the highways, corridors, announced new highways and corridors, let's, uh, build, work, but don't steal by doing that. Let's make the people live better, let's make two million people who are employed, or were once retired, reach the level of their monthly income of 37,000 dinars, to meet the basic needs, what is the minimum cost of a consumer basket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67328	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67329	Here, let me respond positively and say that I accept the proposal to recapture today's debate. So, what's the conclusion? Number one, it was a public call when it came to selecting a strategic partner for the Moravia Corridor, a public call. So that's the first conclusion. The second conclusion, when it comes to corruption, is that we have adopted laws by which there are procedures for many, among other things, officials and political representatives, and in this sense we have shown that there is no protection with us in a political sense, that we are exclusively about principles. We have also shown that when you say -- you hold someone somewhere, and they're caught in action, there's absolutely no case in Serbia, there's nothing even close to the case of Marko Bastic, who's been caught on Sundays, not once but many times. Among other things, it was determined by an appropriate budget inspection, as you called for it to be done. Among other things, he was caught smuggling foreign currency. Among other things, he has pleaded to the authorities these days for all those charges that he directly organized racketeering in the municipality of Stari Grad and extorted that he was taking money for an illegal branch. These are all things people in Serbia know very well. You know, with a folklor in the form of getting bagged on the head, these are some little things that aren't too important, but to strangle some people there and beat them for hours, these are the accompanying methods with everything I've explained to you. To hold someone in power, so I don't know what to tell you? They're probably things that are hard to live with, let alone work with, but they're not our problems. These are the problems of those who support such power and such methods. When 37,000 dinars reach a minimum profit level in Serbia, and I tell you that's something we're working on, we, and no one else, know what's going to happen. Instead of congratulations on the other hand, there will be sentences – it's not good at all, it's not enough we're asking for 50,000, but one thing you understand, when, as is the case today, good, serious, responsible people, people who know their jobs are working, and they love their country, there's no problem we're not going to find the answer in terms of, here, realized, achieved, exceeded, moving on. Sometimes it will be difficult for those who only criticise themselves to make up so much of the concerns, to fantasize about them as there will be positive answers in terms of -- made for the people of this country, achieved for the citizens, and when it comes to the factory and when it comes to the road, and when it comes to pay. (President: Thank you. That's what makes the basic difference. We are driven by love and desire for results. Those who run the story will never be able to think about anything else, let alone show it in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67330	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Let's try to recapture this circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67331	I thought after what I tried to round up, that it would really be the end of the debate, and I think it would be fair for it to end that way, when, here, I got some message about how much oil it used to cost, since it was corn, how much more expensive oil is now, corn cheaper and sunflower cheaper. This is something that's terrible. When it comes to these highways, the people living there in some parts of Serbia should know that eastern Serbia will not be covered by highways, that it will remain a appendix again, as well as the entire Lim Valley. So we support you to network all of Serbia. When a colleague said he wanted to round up the story, I really thought he'd say at least three sentences about "Cruise" so we could finish the crime story.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67332	National MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67333	Okay, so someone doesn't know how many new employees are in that factory you just mentioned? Well, do you know that times two, or times three, compared to the period when the Cruise, but not only the Krusik, managed the vermin, that the average salary of 30 and some thousand, today reached over 50,000 and how much better business is when it just compared to how the balance stood at the end of the year – by minus hundreds of millions or even billions measured at the end of the year at their time, with plus half a billion in the last year or plus a pure billion years behind it? So these are things that no one in this room should have a problem talking about. If you wanted to talk about what's going on, and about our dedicated industry, if you want to talk about a campaign that's being run against this dedicated industry, we're pretty clear about what's going on here. Those whose time for $140 million was total exports of the dedicated industry, today, when that exports are measured at $800 million a year and more, they want to say that today stands in the industry worse than in their time and today they are willing not only to unwittingly lie and cause direct damage, that they even sabotage future contracts made by producers from this country for a foreign interest, for the interests of those who are our direct competition, but are capable of literally destroying everything, and for the profits of those people that I spoke about in this factory, but also other factories, to destroy the perspective of people in which you want to act, to destroy the export potentials of this country, to jeopardize already produced results. And for what? So they could be in power again. Now I don't know who do you think you're promoting by talking about this subject, the people who stand up for these things, who have already shown that something sacred isn't to them, and nothing important is to people like Dragan Gilas or Mark Bastac? I'm not sure how smart that is, but it still makes a difference between where the story is and where the fight is for the result. Every new job is a valuable result to us, every increase in earnings is a valuable result. Every new million, every tenth, let alone hundreds of millions of euros of exports from this country is a valuable result and these things we not only respect, these things we will manage, because that is what bothers us more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67335	Two or three minutes more if this is the essence of this debate that we have now, take it any way you want, but make sure you use it to be fair, correct and fair to those who work for this country and who have managed to provide something. Well, if it's supposed to be your last one, here's an advance!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67336	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67337	The subject we're talking about is supposed to be Zagorka Dolovac, except she's somewhere in the underground, so we don't know what she's going to say and if she's doing anything at all. So our question is very specific. When it comes to "Crusik, we are not talking about the number of employees, we are not talking about the number of employees at a certain time, and we know how many there are and who will have the obligation to provide votes, but we are asking whether the private mission, which is reportedly, whether or not the father of Minister Stefanovic is involved, was this private company privileged in relation to SDPR when it comes to arms exports? Very specific, very simple and very simple. That's the first thing. The other thing, I'm really finishing up as far as I'm concerned, with one more question, by finding out, whatever. Here, with a question from the government, did you talk to the Prime Minister from the assembly majority, here with the resolution minister – as far as it came and if something is going on that more than two million people in Serbia can finally start living as normal as their profits or their already earned pension, which means that the minimum wage in Serbia must be 37,000 dinars, that the lowest pension in Serbia must be 37,000 dinars because the consumer basket is 37,000 dinars? Anyone who has less than the cost of a consumer basket has social status. Is it normal for you that pensioners can be social cases? Is it normal for you that people who go to work, work, who are employed can be social cases? It's not for us, and that's why we insist on the lowest salary and the lowest pension of 37,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67338	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister, Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67339	Thank you. Here, let me get involved. I understand that you asked me a question as former defence minister and someone who was also secretary of state at the Ministry of Defense, someone who witnessed it when it came to not only the Krusik, but also our dedicated industry. When it comes to our dedicated industry, what was found in 2012 was the tendency for the dedicated industry to collapse completely. When it comes to "Krusik" and not spreading the story to others, which is true for everyone else, "Krusik" was a factory where salaries were owed to employees, who was in major financial problems and who, due to the importance of defending our country, needed the exact opposite of the DS-led policy, at the time, and Dragan Sutanovac, who probably wanted Serbia, when it comes to the dedicated industry, to collapse and to be dependent on buying other people's weapons and military equipment. Our idea was that the dedicated industry would stand on its own feet. What I can tell you, specifically for Krusik, is that "Krusik" is from a poor and miserable company that was in ruins from NATO bombing and led to a director who is one of the first measures, I'm going to make just one pandemic of what you're talking about and some other things, which is minimum wage, pension, average salary, average pension, average consumer basket. The first thing he did was, that and what a minimumer should exist for, brought and told the employees that he would receive a minimumer until the company got out of trouble. That's what he did. And since then, he's been on a pillar of shame, why some of the wages that were unrealistic, which they owed, fell to that one level, fired the unemployed who were at that time employed by the DS. It led the company to come in positive and the wages to grow, to have a job, to have quality in production, to rebuild the factory rooms and to expand its production. It led to the fact that Krusik is now a thorn in the eye of all those who at the time destroyed him who did not care and who would love to be again "Krusik" at those levels as he was at their time in 2010. In 2012. We, however, have led the "Cruik" to export it now, to do positive business and all that it does. When it comes to Minister Stefanovic and his father. His father never worked at that firm. This has been proven and, as far as I know, reports from the Anti-Corruption Agency, which said there was no evidence that this man had ever worked for them, received a salary or anything in that company. Are there any privileged companies in some companies that do business? It's a matter of business secrets from these companies and it has nothing to do with this firm or any other company. You know, when someone pulls goods from a company, of course they have privileged status in some companies. It's not just happening in Krusik, it happens in all companies. It exists in the private sector as well. There is no need to interfere in such matters, nor is there any abuse, and for that abuse there are some other organs that can say whether there are tax evasions, some illegal wealth or anything else. When it comes to Krusik, don't because of everything that's going on in our country that we fall under what Đilas, Jeremic, wants to destroy everything that's really good in this country, that we're collapsing and that we claim something that's wrong and that there's some corruption. There's no corruption. There are organs that must be watching that. There are organs that watch this today. What is different from their time, is that in 2016, after 40 years, the state of Serbia gave 50m euros in the dedicated industry. After 40 years, our dedicated industry stands by, to export, to profit, to charge taxes and to live as a country and all citizens to have plus and to build roads today. It's the idea of developing our dedicated industry. On the one hand, the army doesn't depend, and on the other hand, we have income and we do business in the plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67340	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. I agree with you. I want to close this circle of replicas. We've gone far from the subject. The Anti-Corruption Agency, which is responsible, said everything about Krusik. Please, let's move on. For me, as chairman, it was closed and ended as the state authorities say. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67341	Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we're not exactly your best audience for part of the story, although you often take care of it quite often. We love Serbia. We do not recognise another country, or we cannot love it, because we cannot put it in line with Serbia. These are some others worth telling. The law on public procurement, first of all, aims for the purpose, this and for the public, for the sake of citizens, to provide, under the most favourable conditions, the best service, the best goods, and when I say under the most favourable conditions, this applies primarily to the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now you need to know that there are no small and large thieves and that the state's relationship should be the same to each other. They steal a little bit from people who can steal a little bit, and a lot of people who can steal a little more. Now equalize some figures against what we in the SRS are and when we mention 250 million. Maybe it'll be 300 million in the final figure, it's a much more serious thing. I can't understand some colleagues wanting to degrade that problem so quickly. It is important to know that it is not only Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic and Kyle Scott who are the cause of such a law, above all. We must not forget William Walker, who was a CIA spy, who financed terrorism in Albania, or Albanian citizens, and financed from Serbia and factory Racak. Today Serbia suffers far-reaching consequences. They are also trying to get the president of the Republic of Serbia into that toad, fully and fully conscious. We shouldn't, when we point out those 250 million that they say – it doesn't matter, we had, it was an offer for everyone. You made such an offer that not everyone can apply. One of the colleagues should understand and what it means when it's called at a higher school or a higher school facility at all, and certain conditions are set up, so that not everyone can compete there. That's the situation here. After this law, it seems to me we've been painting for nothing. I'll tell you later that you've already set 19 exceptions in the bill on this Article 2 which has a much wider mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67342	Thank you, colleague Perich. He answered by amendment, Professor Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67343	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, of course, is very important to this Law on Public Procurement. It's also important for this valid one that's in place, but we're making some of this better. What is very important is that our political opponents, i.e. from the party of the former regime, have not often called public procurement procedures. I will say only one example to show that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see that they have damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that is, how people would say wash money out of the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here, for example, Vuk Jeremic, called "the protraction", damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget for huge funds. In 2011, the DRI pointed to the "Aeroklub" Belgrade affair, in which Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic made a payment of 42m dinars, which is the equivalent of 300,000 euros, based on a invoice, without a signed contract and without public procurement, buying airline tickets for 2010 amounting to 33m dinars. The company's owner was Ivan Novčić, a close relative to Jeremic's wife, Natasha. Dear People's MP Aleksandar Markovic spoke today about the whereabouts of the Wolf descendant, where he came from and where he came from. Well, here's where he got the money. This is how they robbed the budget of the Republic of Serbia and public firms. Likewise, Jeremic washed 3.6m euros without public procurement. You see what they were doing -- one plane ticket alone, he spent 220 average salaries, and on the name of the diaries he raised 55,000 euros in two years. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is how the Alliance for Serbia alienated money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The truth is, too, that we've been processing some of them. We've heard these days that we haven't. We have, five former ministers, not three but five former former former regime ministers -- Minister Predrag Bubalo, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister Sasa Dragin, Minister Jasna Matic and Minister Dulic, that is five, and two ministerial assistants. Let me say, however, that these Alliance for Serbia, when you see their work résumés, ordinary lesidovic, freebarogues, secikuses or lufti butts, or in translation, that citizens know, that means unemployed. This is best characterized by their Svetislav, and ours, Ambassador Svetislav Basara, who said the Democratic Party is in various variants, quote: "A self-administrative community of cheaters and thieves, headed by Gida and Guziana". Guzian is the Wolf of Jeremic. This is a quote. Allow me, Madam Vice President, to convey immense gratitude to the citizens of the Republic's President, Alexander Vukic, and to those of the old foreign savings, "Yugobanke Split", mostly citizens of the refugees of Serbian nationality, who after 29 years of exile from their centuries-old hearth finally received solutions and old foreign savings, and tried with former presidents, former governments, they only gave a smile, and they live in very difficult material conditions. I will pass on a quote from the citizens, because they have hired me, quote: "Respective President, our children, grandchildren and grandchildren will say - it is resolved by Vukic, after 29 years of exile and we will be eternally grateful," finished the quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67344	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67345	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, we are witnesses, and even those who led the destructive policy of the previous years, cannot, nor want to challenge, that the consequences of this policy have been treated these seven years and that we have come close to healing. We won't let them come back and destroy this effort. It's so-called. The opposition, which is the loudest and most fabricated affairs, full of lies and deception, are trying to cast a shadow on our most modern highways, on our national income growth, which is the largest in history, on our reputation in the world, which is never higher, at the lowest post-war unemployment rate, on regulated finances. Also, to the success that the world values, our friends, both in Russia and China, and the EU, on our stable path to the EU, to Serbia's country, which is now a desirable partner. All these are the results that have been achieved under extremely difficult circumstances. Our message is simple and unique - we will continue this way, because Serbia is not there another time. And we won't let them destroy and rob again. Of course it's vital that it continue to grow wages and pensions and create new jobs so that young people stay here. Dynamic economic growth will be supported, among other things, by these additions to the Business Society Act. We need to give our young experts the opportunity to be stimulated to do their jobs better, to own benefits and benefits of the company itself, by giving them the opportunity to be members of that company. So, if these changes are adopted and complemented, they can become the owners of a share in society, at the advantage of the price. This is important, especially in newly established companies that are unable to make a large profit right away, but can stimulate their employees and associates by giving their shares in society. This share of the sticker can be sold as a business company, achieve growth and increase its value on the market, and may participate in the distribution of profits of the company if it decides to keep the share. This is an institute that exists in developed market economies and there is a practice to stimulate employees in this way. Essentially, this type of asset available by a company in favour of employees is an additional instrument for improving the impact of employees, and thus also performances of a company, on the one hand, and the financial gain of employees through obtaining shares at preferential prices. I expect these amendments to the Business Society Act to significantly improve the business environment in our country, as well as give opportunity to improve employee standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67346	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Stefana Miladanovic and MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67347	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, one 15 replicas, if you please, if you would allow. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've recently heard of a strange public procurement. It's about Bosko Ljotic, Bosko Žutić, the Bosniak Yankee, the one that crawls into the American embassy, the one that Scott put in parliament, and now we're gone, Scott, we're left with an idiot. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, why have I used such a harsh expression? I'll try to explain. Recently, he made a statement, I think it was yesterday, that Serbia should raise walls so that some migrant would not accidentally move through Serbia into the EU. So in the same EU, which is responsible for destroying Syria, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan. So, the EU that destroyed those countries with NATO pact. The goal of all migrants is this very EU. I am protecting the EU from migrants who want to enter that Europe without borders, and I do not want to prevent them from reaching the EU. Some of the migrants are still in Serbia's territory. We who have been through all war horrors, we who have migrated before wars, in front of all kinds of flashes, storms, etc., must be very careful with those who are trying to reach developed Europe from war scenes. It is a very sensitive issue and we have to consider, since each other, right, Mr. Martinovic, minority every other Serbia has migrated from Serbia. So we belong to migration, we should have understanding of some who migrate and who don't want to stay in our country. Look at the wonders! The one I called as I called, he decided to lift the walls around Serbia, so he says -- if a migrant accidentally breaks through, then inside those walls he needs a wire camp, meaning, some programme that neither Dimitria Ljotic, whose work he did in the heritage, therefore, did not come up with either. In favour of Gilas's business, I believe that in these camps they should only watch N1 TV, read only "Today" and "Blic" in these camps to read NIN and "Time". I therefore recommend that Bosko Ljotic, Bosko Zlatić prescribe that in these wires, among those walls, which he should raise by the reputation of Adolf Hitler, by the reputation of Budak, etc., read only those printed and watch N1, "New S", "Sabac TV", etc., those TVs that let Bosko Ljotić broadcast to others. This kind of public procurement would probably have been done by Bosko Ljotic. I'm not surprised at him who's ready for anything who's willing to spit on Americans, then crawl in front of them, etc. I marvel at those who are with him in the Alliance. For example, I'm surprised by Aleksandra Jerkov, I'm surprised that Chomićki, who spoke on TV the other night about the dialogue, about the need for debates. Mr. Martinovic, you remember, I was not an MP at the time, that Mrs. Komic excluded one 70 MPs per month, which she said I do not know how many monetary warnings etc. And then she talks about tolerance, the need for debate in parliament, how this parliament forced out the opposition, without anyone applying the radical measures it was applying. So she almost shut down the entire opposition from the National Assembly, and today she's, like, a supporter of some debate, which she's not coming to. Now I'm surprised at her. How is it that because of far smaller things, because of Republika Srpska's struggle for survival, where it calls Republika Srpska's criminal creation, etc., that it has such strange criteria for Republika Srpska, does not have the same criteria for Bosic Ljotic, who preaches camps in the middle of Serbia, walls, wires? Just to put on the rifles and shoot anyone who doesn't watch Jugoslav Cosic and anyone who says something against Baškam Oili, their sponsor. So that he immediately has to shoot himself on the spot or it is expected that Bosko Ljotic, instead of the pipeline, instead of heating the households, will carry out the gas in these same camps. It's still to be realized. These are his public procurements. I'm surprised, for example, Balshi, I'm surprised Jerkov and I'm surprised Comićki, I'm surprised, let's say, with great humanity, as it is called, Sandy Raskovic Ivić, who has declared "Storm" a humanitarian action, etc. I'm surprised to all of them how they stand for what they're in the Alliance. Janku Veselinovic, who is driving Serbs to Croatia to vote for HDZ candidates. I'm surprised at all of them. How can they support and be in league with such a man, with such a party leader? What were they saying? The Dwri won't, the Dwri are without a leader, as they say, there are no leaders in the Dwri. Looks like there's only one leader left in the Dwarves who's got all sorts of criminal ideas coming to mind. I believe he would really conduct public procurement if he, "jitler", and that team won, and build camps in Serbia where I believe he would not close up migrants. After all their threats of shooting, of rape, of hanging, I believe that many of us, along with the migrants, would share these camp conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67348	Thank you. He has the word, according to the amendment, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67349	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Public Procurement Act has been implemented since 2013 and this part of the legislative regulation has been a contribution to the improvement of the public procurement system, especially with regard to strengthening the transparency of the procedure and the protection of competition. In order to continue that path, we are now discussing a new proposal that includes certain changes that have turned out to be necessary, and from the point of view of more detailed regulation of certain issues. First of all, the legislator considers that the efficiency of the procedure could be higher and that the duration of the procedure could be shortened, if we consider that the contracting authorities spend the most time on meeting the formal requirements. On the other hand, some of the weaknesses observed are on the side of bidders who are significantly less involved in public procurement procedures. There have been cases where procedures have been suspended for reasons of no offer, and only one bidder appears from half of the total number of procedures. For these reasons, in order to strengthen the public procurement system, but also to stimulate participants in public procurement procedures, they should accept this bill. On the other hand, as regards compliance with EU directives, these are the commitments Serbia has made and in order to meet the commitments we have made, in that sense it should also give support to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67350	Thank you. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Stefana Miladanovic and MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67351	The essence of this law, as counterpart Jokic said, is the control of public procurement and, thanks to that control, the only way to keep malfeasance and what is illegal is to a minimum. No one lives in the ideal belief that it's going to be zero. This comes down to one tolerable minimum when it comes to the possibility of breaking the law, i.e. in public procurement, to prevent what is major evil in Serbia, which is bribery and corruption. We can theoretically consider all possible options and variants that are happening, but we all know that in larger procurements, when I say bigger, then they are in proportion to this state of Serbia, they can fund two or three competing companies that appear in the open tender for public procurement, and get the one that has already been agreed in advance. It's one of the options. It's very difficult to check, but it's easier to work if we have commissions, if we have competent authorities, above all the Ministry of Finance, which will clearly and precisely act under the law. What we think of as Serbian radicals is the delusion here to discuss some, conditionally speaking, public procurement of large scales, when it comes to office material, when it comes to the purchase of paper. That's not the point. Large purchases are the ones that come from foreign large companies, such as the construction of these highways. There's a lot more money, much more investment. There are great losses and there are great irregularities precisely because of what we honor, due to direct contracts and talks in four eyes. It can't be, it's nowhere in the world. But we don't have a mechanism, or this authority, to stand up to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67352	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67353	It is amazing, ladies and gentlemen, that you, the EU's conditioning, in such an unspeakable way, are also incorporating this law. In this Article 20, you are bound by the Republic of Serbia in all the positions of this member, and we have requested that Article 5 be deleted, to report to the European Commission on the contracts you sign under a special procedure in the area of the security sector. So, you are fully attached to NATO's pact policy and NATO members who are asking Serbia to do so. It's been so many years, and you've been deaf about all the SRS appeals that you've granted diplomatic status to the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, or members of that centre, which is what the SRS has been seeking over and over again. Two years ago, the prime minister said she didn't know anything about whether it was going to be or not. It's obvious they won't, because if you wanted to by now, you would, as the Russian security chief said, meet the legal obligation to do so, not that someone is asking you to do so, and of course you can't do it because of your friends in the NATO Pact, the same ones who planted the bombs, the bomb loads here whose consequences today die, unfortunately, young and old people. This is the highlight of the policy that is pummeling towards something Serbia will never enter first, which is the EU, and on the other hand you are further humiliating us, and thus our security forces, because you are asking this law to make Serbia accept all that Brussels points out to you, or to members of the government. You are blindly listening and following, and you have no answer to key questions, which is how Serbia will deal with challenges in the future with all NATO countries that go hand in hand to Shiparian separatists and terrorists. The road is only one, to make a military alliance with the Russian Federation and thus to use what we have received from them and what Serbia will buy, but much we have received for free, to strengthen our country's defence power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67354	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 28th amendment. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment of the SRS, Article 29 is amended and reads - the orderer is obliged to make public procurement plans, decision to launch procurement procedures, call for public competition, tender documentation and the choice decision of the most favourable offer the estimated value of public procurement. This is necessary to combat manipulation of any kind, whether this value is underestimated or overrated. The law must oblige the contracting authority to specify how much value it is, to make that price clear, which is essentially the limit below which it must not go. Of course, precise value is difficult to achieve, but at least approximately it must be determined by examining the market, quality and all other relevant indicators. The law should not deal with value-setting methods, since the price clearly expressed is more than enough to signal whether any kind of public competition is indeed equal for all participants. That the indication of the different value assessment methods in this proposal is too high, because it is impossible to specify all the means of assessment, I will set one example in practice. This may seem banal to someone, but the finale has caused the material losses resulting from upholding the letter of the law. Namely, in a Belgrade public company, there is a coffee kitchen where employees can get coffee, juices, and another warm drink. Nothing unusual or contrary to valid standards. The problem occurred when a tender was launched for the purchase of espresso coffee. Most of the 150 employees in the company drink exactly that coffee, and the problem arose when the new one arrived in the tender. No one wanted to drink it, just her quality was below her level, every level. The client who securely called the tender acted by accepting the lowest bid, which in this case meant the worst goods. One word, the money's been dropped. It's no one's fault objectively looking at it. It's all legal. The workers still don't drink coffee, and management doesn't know what to do with the supplies. Therefore, the clearly displayed value of the purchase would certainly eliminate such offers. That's the point of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67356	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 32nd amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. Ristichevich? Here's a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these are strange public procurement. Today, the most complaints in the functioning of the state and local self-government procurement are members of the party of the former regime. It's the ones whose addresses we can't easily find out. These are the ones who have jumped into the Maldives, on yachts, come to apartments in Vienna, London, have reached a 20m-euro property, only in apartments, such as Gilas, that if you find a subpoena to give them calls, he must have a passport, he must have a visa, because in order to find these newly-compromised rich people, it can only be a judicial caller who can travel abroad, who has a travel document, or passport that is visible to many countries where they have their own destination. Ladies and gentlemen, the Paradise of the rich is based on a hell of the poor. Poverty doesn't produce poor people, but rich people do, as young people say, by taking money from millions of citizens and becoming millionaires. That money comes out of circulation and that society becomes poor, not only because the rich stole the poor, but because they took that money out to Cook and other white world islands and, of course, they don't spend it here, they don't pay taxes here, and that's a lot of damage. I have spoken and I will repeat because of the migrants, these camps they would raise would probably conduct public procurement and would probably as Most on Adi, the main negotiator would be Dragan Gilas. It'd probably be four times the planned price, and you'd probably be leading that trip to some hell. We'd probably be in that camp. You know they threatened to list us, if they knew our addresses, then together that reporter, what's his name, said we should all be stuffed in camps, then they'd rape a little... What? (Alexander Martinovic: I would be plowed. )......................................................................................................... Then they'd rape a little, then they'd plow Mr. Martinovic a little, then they'd plow Mr. Djukanovic. They'd take me up to the mountain and cut me in pieces. So, since I'm not going uphill, because of bronchitis, they'd probably have to carry me, and they'd probably capture me, because they're carrying nothing but money, and then they'd shoot you a little bit, and then they'd torture us a little bit more like that, and then Gjorge Vukadinovic would have prescribed that you don't do it on the terraces, because there are patriots hanging out there, but somewhere else he sees. So, don't be surprised at the statements both Bostic and Ljotić about migrants on the day of the migrants. Now, he'd build a big camp, walls, well, he'd lift the production of wires, bricks, etc. some pipes of indigestion, etc. If that camp were built, built and put up by migrants who are rare in Serbia, but probably we ourselves would try to be migrants from these walls. For these walls prevent it from entering, but these walls prevent it from coming out. Bosko Ljotic probably thinks he's catching us all in those walls, putting us in these camps and applying the measures I've already described. Ladies and gentlemen, this is funny to some, but I think such dangerous ideas should be put in the way. Someone who has overcome the ideas of Bosko Ljotic and who has joined the DS, watch out for DS, along with Bosko Ljotic, along with ideas about camps, walls, walls, etc. That sounds amazing to me. Those who have the heritage of the idea of Zoran Djindjic. By the time I said that, let me say they don't look like Zoran Djindjic. We who co-operated with him know that he was not anti-national, there are many mistakes about him, there are all kinds of stories about him, but my opinion is that his policy is not this DS policy, that they have taken over the policy of the former civil union and that they are trying to allegedly preach to Serbia, but the policies of the civil union and politics of Bosko Ljotic do not go together. How does it all survive? Probably because of the money. There are very rich people who think they can do anything with money, but you just need to know that these same people who think they can do anything with money are willing to do anything for money, to sacrifice the national and state interest of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67358	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. This extra time will be removed from the time of the authorised representative. The word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67359	Thank you, Chairman. I owe citizens information about what Marko Kesa Bastic from Old Town, going to the municipality, I hope by going to prison, published a few days ago on his Twitter account, where he said that Belgrade today looks better, better looking, that every year the number of tourists coming to our capital is doubled and leaving their money in it, thanks to which in Belgrade there is a record low unemployment, below 80,000, thanks to which the average salaries in Belgrade are record high compared to some period behind us, so this gentleman said that I supported one of their officials who said that Belgrade was humiliated with this rural fair in Knez Mihailovo, that it was a Shobanisation, etc. Here, I'm just gonna show the citizens what this beautiful Belgrade looks like when they're doing it and taking care of it, and it stays a complete mess. You remember the famous replica of The Terrace in New Belgrade that never came to life. Here are the citizens who can see it. That's what everyone remembers. It cost 60 million dinars to the citizens of Belgrade, 60 million for rags, for replicas that have never been revived, 60 million dinars thrown into the pockets of Dragan Gilas and his friends. It's a replica of Theasia. Then we have the "Pazl City" on Vozdovec, all in dozens and hundreds of millions of dinars, who could never live because he was not even safe for our children. Then we have Spanish trams. Over 50 million were taken from citizens of Belgrade, over 53 million dinars. I remind you, these Spanish trams are the same in the Hungarian town of Debrecin bought far cheaper than the City of Belgrade bought during the time of the government of Dragan Gilas. Then we're having an affair with the reconstruction of King Alexander's boulevard. For the affair, Gilas and his mobsters spent over 650m dinars, the citizens of Belgrade's money. That's where they cut those huge canvass, so I'm going to remind you of their complaining about the trees in Calemegdan, the attacks on SNS and the City of Belgrade that will make that magnificent gondola on Calemegdan, towards the mouth, because of the alleged tree cutting. And, SNS, our officials, our youth, the members are implementing exactly the action of shaming and of the city and of our state. So we make the city more beautiful, better, safer, more visited for our tourists, that more money is left and spent in it. This also helps our pensioners, our pregnant women, our maternity parents, and our children, from whom we can build schools, rebuild schools, build new kindergartens, we can help our endangered population. So we're doing everything that our city and our country needs to do to make it better, until these thieves leave behind nothing useful to the city, except steal money in Boulevard, "Passtle City", replica "Terroria", on the trams. Among other things, these trams were decomposed at one point, and one of them was cut in half during the ride. That's it. The rule of those who ruled Serbia until 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67360	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 37. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 39th amendment. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67361	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there used to be a prison manager who had five kilos of fat missing and got a year in prison for it. But it was prevention, acting on others not to commit a crime. When you ask the question why our friendly country of China is progressing so well and developing, even if it were to shoot thieves, many would have found themselves in a situation, and had they been involved in crime in its territory, as they do in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the advanced party, how is it possible that you have installed a yellow guerrilla in all public enterprises? Is there any crime in public utility companies in Panchev? Here's an example. Until recently, he was the city's attorney at Panchev, who was removed, but he was brought in a new one. When the new D.A. came in, there was a 85 square-square office for him for nine million dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, that means the painting of his office cost 106,880 dinars. You see, for these 9 million dinars, 600 pensions or disability payments of 15,000 dinars could have been paid. Ladies and gentlemen, did it make any sense to tolerate the former government that robbed the state? Two highways per 100 kilometers could have been built if you gentlemen had arrested thieves and taken property from thieves. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the advanced party, comb the lines, confess to corruption and crime, but to see what the prosecutors, the police, the courts are doing to you, and you'll see what the inspections are doing to you. As Nikolai Gogol said - if you set one guard for a thief, you'll have two thieves, if you assign two guards, you'll have three thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67362	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go, Mrs. Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67363	Thank you, Chairman. We've already had several opportunities to listen to stories about Panchev from the previous speaker and I can't not react. Last time you didn't see my application, Chairman, I don't know if it was you or Mr. Arsic, it's absolutely not important, but I definitely have to react because these are absolutely lies and lies. Everything that's been said, like this one now for painting the office, I absolutely have no idea what the previous speaker is talking about. On the other hand, and for the previous amendment and the previous story about the public toilet in Panchev, that it was spent over, as far as I understood it, 17 million dinars, I must say, no matter how far they treated the subject, it was one of the burning topics for the Pančevos and for one such city as Panchevo was a subject that someone had to turn attention after 30 years and do something about it. So now the Pančevs have an opportunity to see in a transparent way how the money of the budget and the money of the citizens of Panchev is spent. Among other things, on those topics and all the things that the Pancians need to do to bring their standard to some level that was absolutely abandoned by 2012 and thus that public toilet that we're talking about, in which no one invested a single dinar for 30 years. This which 17 million were spent on, if spent, was spent on an absolutely new construction, new installation and editing of a space that is as it is necessary in the city center of Pancheva, both at the request and on the initiative of the citizens of Pancheva. So, I ask you, the next time you intend to bring out what kind of flossules and lies, that at least some of the facts of the citizens, what they present as their own needs, that you don't mistreat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67364	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would be delighted that the distinguished colleague has paid more attention to other projects and other burning issues when it comes to Panchevo. If it's a public and capital investment to arrange a toilet, I congratulate you. But is it true that the office has been turned over by a new public defender? If so, how much did it cost? Let me see that. Is it true when we talk about crime in Panchev, what did the current government do in "Azotara"? When in 2010, this power did not, but it did, in 2010, the “Azotara” began to deal with the trade in wheat, it bought 75 thousand tonnes at the price of 12 dinars, in order to sell within 20 days to the company “In-Bay” by eight dinars, that damage was caused directly by “Azotara” and “Azotara” workers, a colleague, where you come from, a billion and 900 million dinars. That's what we need to talk about. And is that true? There are 51 criminals charged with "Azotara". Do we have a verdict that someone was convicted of the 51 persons charged? We don't. What are the prosecutors doing? Well, you see, is it true that the "Montera" Belgrade firm, Mr. Kopcalic's firm, was doing certain work on the new dump? Is it true that 2.5 million had to be paid by the directorate? Is it true that the prosecutor of that Kopcalic and that institution were just his sister-in-law at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev? So, I'll agree with you, wherever there's a crime where you're going to clean up certain things and fight crime and fight hard, you have my support, but the problem is that there's no procedure and no punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67366	Thank you. There's a Sandra Christmas right on the line. Here you go, Mrs. Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67367	No one here has said that capital investment in the public toilet is something that I don't know how much and beyond necessary and that investment is not what other values are in Panchev. That was exactly what the citizens of Panchev wanted and recognized as their primary need that there was a public toilet in the middle of town that's always been there, for over 30 years, but I'm also saying that 30 years no one has invested a single dinar in it. What you're asking is what the city government in Pancheva has done, I'll tell you. So all the previous authorities didn't do, or so many people, those thousands of people and tens of thousands of people who were out of work in Panchev, exactly what SNS did on this issue is that over three and a half thousand people were employed. What Panchevo did was to equip the northern industrial zone, where we thus had the opportunity to bring in two large investors such as Broses and CTF and thus provide three and a half thousand new jobs for the Pančevs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67368	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. Veroljub Arsic reported after amendment Mr. Jojic, I don't see you in the system. [[Petar Jojic: I was looking for a replica.]] (Petar Jojic: Give me the word first.) ) He appeared as a representative of the parliamentary group, a colleague of Jojic. You'll get a chance, don't worry about anything, you know I'm right here very much. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that with many things that have happened in the past, the prosecution should react much more sharply, but it's also true... A fellow who throws, I would recommend that he finally start sitting in the O.R. because he'll learn something. This is how it will spin the story only about "Bechtel", about the EU and co-operation with the Eurasian Union, and that is the height of its knowledge. When he sits in the O.R., he'll learn something. As I recall, when it comes to the "Azotara", I think even the former agriculture minister has been arrested and his associates. Well, why don't you say so? Why don't you just ask a question? Why don't you arrest him? First of all, we don't arrest, arrest the police based on the prosecution's orders. That's the first thing. The other thing, those who know the Public Procurement Act... Young fellow, it's very rude what you're doing. It seems to me that you must learn good manners and education and the Rules of Procedure. The fact is, those who have known public procurement laws a little longer, that the negotiation process by 2012 was 60% of the public procurement process. (President: Comrade Seselj, really don't throw away, please. Let your colleague Arsic finish. ) The second thing, also, when they talk about earlier abuses, they would have to know that they were allowed to annex the basic contract to 25%, so that was possible several times. Now that the gentlemen have written laws to steal, they are punished in the elections, but it is very difficult to punish someone for a very bad law that was in place by 2012. Let's get this straight. I appeal to the prosecution to act more aggressively in all cases of corruption, and even the one that happens in the Old Town municipality, especially because I ask the question and how the committees representing the honest ones can vote for final reports and final decisions on the final budget account in such municipalities where it is evident that money is being stolen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67370	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to reply has Petar Jojic, so you will get a colleague Risticevic. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. What about me? He came to me? He hasn't spoken to you. No, what are you throwing, you're a nice gentleman, what are you throwing all the time? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here, he's entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about irregularities and crime in Pancheva, so let's remind ourselves and see if it's true? I'm asking you from the current government, is it true that the robbery at Panchevo pharmacy is a billion and 30 million dinars, and where are the gentlemen's money, where are the money and is it true that the suppliers sued the town of Panchevo and that the town of Panchevo and the taxpayers of the city of Pancheva have to pay for the robbery and they have to pay a billion and 30 million dinars, because the town of Pančevo is the founder of the pharmacy? Who's to blame for this crime? Is it true that the previous regime first brought the director of the drugstore Pančevo, first from Cačka, Velina's party that finished the job 50%, and the second one was brought from Užica to be the director of the drugstore Panchevo, who finished and the balance of all this is a billion and 30 million dinars of robbery? There is no money, and imagine, gentlemen, honourable MPs, Panchevo has 700 doctors and pharmacists, so could no one else be found to be director but to bring a thief on the side. So when we talk about corruption, what Mr. Arsic said. It is true that Mr. Arsic is also accused of regressed fertilizer and that there are more than seven hundred million dinars, damage per state, damage to workers who have lost their jobs, and now Azotara and her workers, as you know, are not working, but criminals really have turned to Azotar in black and black and enveloped about 1,000 workers and the total number of members of their families is around 3,500 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67372	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Right on the line, she now has Marijan Risticevic. (Alexander Seselj: What about me? How come I don't have a right? Mr. Seselj, you have no real right. Well, I don't get it, I'm a young colleague, I don't see it. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67373	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm this young colleague, he spoke to me. So, if youth knew, and age could and therefore Mr. Arsic spoke to me as a younger man, because it doesn't matter how old he is in your life, but how many lives he has at your age. That's why Mr. Arsic came to me and Mr. Arsic you know after the change that the two of us were dealing with Azotar Panchevo, wheat, etc., it wasn't very popular. Executive power, it was very dangerous. The executive government did everything they could to her. The police have done their part of the process in a safe haven. What did the yellow judiciary do? It's not up to us. Our colleagues need to know that we are democratically oriented political organisations. The judiciary is independent of this authority, but unfortunately the former isn't. So, the fact that the judiciary is not independent of the former government has resulted in the fact that the Azotar affair is not being expelled until the end. The executive found, the police found all the evidence, the evidence presented to the court. The truth is what the gentleman was saying, we did all this despite the danger, unfortunately, the judiciary failed in the act in which he was supposed to sanction that crime. We who advocate for an independent judiciary can be dissatisfied with the fact that in the famous reform, in fact the deformity of the judiciary in 2009, and what the gentleman has confirmed, has brought many swastikas, relatives, relatives, party friends into that judiciary and they are today protecting crime do not punish him and thus reward those who have put them politically in those places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67374	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The replica of Sadra Christmas, the replica of Peter Jojic. I'm sorry, first of all, about the business of Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67375	Mr. Marinkovic, you had to give me a replica, the 27th member was injured when Mr. Arsic spoke directly to me. He estimates what I know, what I don't know, what I learned, what I didn't, where I was, when I came and the other things. He's from his MP bench seducing order in the National Assembly which I don't think is appropriate. On the other hand, I have to tell you briefly, a recapitulation of what I learned from Mr. Arsic for all this time. I've heard, it is learned, that reducing pensions is actually an increase in pensions and a historic level of pensions. That cutting wages is actually an increase in salary. I learned that a direct contract where more than 250m euros are taken is the best thing for Serbia that has happened, as is now the Bechtela issue. I learned that everything is allowed in the campaign, and then after that, when it comes to the National Assembly, all other things are said and other things are done. I'm very jealous of you, Mr. Arsic, of your economic theory here and I think it would be extremely correct and selfless of Serbia that we might send you to the IMF or the World Bank and that you share all the data you have here and those formulas of yours, share with the whole world, that everyone then lives better, and not just us here in Serbia. I've heard from you that in Serbia we have German salaries, German standards, Swiss pensions. I've heard your support for all of it. I've heard that you know better than the Minister of Finance many things. The fiscal council is zero for you, Mr. Arsic. So I think it is extremely correct and I urge the Serbian government to really see in this direction how Arsic can contribute to all humanity not only here in this small Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67376	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I also believe that you have abused this institute, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I won't apply that measure to which I have the right to take two minutes away from the time of your parliamentary group, I don't want to do that. You're both a good lawyer and someone who knows the Rules of Procedure well, and I'm just asking you not to do it today. I'm really not gonna let that happen. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67377	Article 106. Col. Marinkovic, here and now happens, attitude 3. During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers, otherwise they did not want to write any uglier words, such as – roaring and so on, but we are just experiencing it. Here we go. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, I must admit that my esteemed young colleague is a better politician than they are, but only by them. So that's not where I'm going at all, they're really better than them. There's something else I need to say. It's not the election that's gonna happen in two or three years, it's just a few months. What a standard of living in Serbia and how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe in the results that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have and how much they believe in the future led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, they will say in the elections, in just a few months. We're not afraid of those choices. We have the results. If the citizens say we deserve trust for the next four years, fine. If they say we're not, all right, we're going straight with power. But it doesn't give the right to what exists and what is seen, to be challenged, that these citizens who see it make them crazy so they don't see it, don't know that they're stealth roads, stealth bridges, stealth factories, stealth wages, that it's all stealth. That's what Mirko Cvetkovic tried. I don't know why a fellow invisible is trying to convince Serbian citizens of what Mirko Cvetkovic was trying to do in 2011. He didn't go for it either, not even a young stealth colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67378	Thank you, colleague Arsic. You respected the Rules of Procedure for the first 15 to 20 seconds, after which you did not. So, good, tolerance for both you and Alexander Seselj. Now I'd give the right to a replica... (Alexander Seselj: Business. The question is do you want to keep working? I've been tolerant enough. (Alexander Seselj: Please, according to the Rules of Procedure.) Well, I can't let you obstruct the work of the Assembly, really. (Alexander Seselj: Please give me the word in the Rules of Procedure one more time.) No, no. I am only asking you to understand that we give Sandra Christmas the right to the replica and return to the topic and allow your colleague, Peter Jojic, if there is a chance to get a replica. (Alexander Seselj: Business. Don't throw away, it really doesn't make sense. I told you, I'm not going to warn you today or anything. I'm behind it, but don't do it. I'm really the kind of culturally warning you. The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67379	Thank you, Chairman. I see it's very difficult for you to fight to maintain order in this assembly, and I can see that your colleagues don't make much of a contribution. Not to agree with my previous speaker, related to Pancheva and the pharmacy debt, he is right when he says the debt was made by others who were in power before the SNS in Pancheva. For the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens of Panchev, I must say that 70% of the debt until 2012 was found in the city of Pancheva and that has put a considerable burden on the budget. The rest of the 30% of the current debt represents the interest that has been charged, legally, of course. So, what we have left as a responsible government in the town of Panchev is to deal with this very large debt and in agreement with the Ministry of Finance it will be in the next period and done since the burden of the budget of the city of Pancheva has dropped this obligation. As far as setting up the directors who led to this situation at Pancheva pharmacy, the investigative authorities have already said theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67380	Thank you. I'm setting a five-minute break according to my authority. (Alexander Seselj: Business. No more Rules of Procedure, no more replicas, we'll move on after the break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're moving on with our work. The 40th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67382	We were here a little while ago, not now, but in that earlier circle, we had the peak of democracy when two MPs had been replicating for almost an hour, and then you, the chairman, gave the word to the minister, that his would be final. It's nowhere but here on the globe, nowhere. But what have we learned from the minister? He's a really privileged man. You, Minister, are the only man in Serbia who has obviously had communication with Zagorko Dolovac. You said there was no crime in Krusik. That's all she can say, and if she told you in confidence, it's a good thing you shared it with the public. This amendment that speaks of confidential data and so on has very much to do with "Cruise" and you are constantly trying to turn the story around that there are some state secrets in "Cruise that can't be told." State secret and official secret and business secret can be how to produce weapons, technology, and whether weapons are sold to criminal stores or fair and in accordance with the law, it's a public interest, it can't be a state secret. That's all we want to know. You said again today that Minister Stefanovic's father did not work in Krusik. I'm more willing to trust the Wolf than you do, the Wolf said it was, now, what can I do to you. So, if he was working, if he wasn't, it's less important. It's much more important for someone to tell us, if there is one in this country, to tell us if this private firm was privileged to the SDPR? You let go of that story of yours – sometimes "Kruik", now they pay and so on, you let it go, we want to solve this now. It used to be bad. This now Petkovic hired a lot of people in Krusik. That's right. Two-thirds for a certain time because you keep them on the lager when you need them safe voices and photographed ballots. And that's true. And if he's such an expert, then why didn't you keep him, so he really works better? Why did you send him where he now quits in Kragujevac in the dedicated industry? It's not all that. It's easy to say great and great and then you get a round of applause from your co-workers on the side. I don't envy them, believe me, I feel sorry for them. They're now acting out where they came from, threatening school principals to be replaced, threatened by prosecutors, judges, and scared by people there. I'm afraid of the moment when people like people who won't have that power to scare the people like that, when they show up there in their neighborhood at their market, in their store and so on, how will they behave among those people? Really, let's get some reality into this life. Do you know when this will happen when it will come to the people? Now that Vukic, as promised, replaces one-third of the MPs with clean and fair, which means he will remove unclean and dishonest, he said, and if so, then I really don't know how these applauses will appear in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67383	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67384	First, he didn't say unfair. He said he would refresh the ministry's work, i.e. the work of MPs and the SNS parliamentary club. Number two, when you talk about this, it's not Zagorka Dolovac, it's the court that determines, not Zagorka Dolovac. If there's any blame for anything, he'll answer in this country. When it comes to the Krusik and the dedicated industry, you should know that surveillance there is done by the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Serbian Army, which also has the Supervisory Board and the Military Inspectorate oversees the work and when it comes to the general legality of working in the dedicated industry, when it comes to safety and health at work when it comes to the dedicated industry. Of course, with cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and with our Department of Safety and Health at Work, with other inspections, everything is controlled. I don't think both the government and the Department of Defense have any problem checking any of the industry's work. What I can tell you is that we all need to be proud of how and how our dedicated industry works, how and how the exports of our country's weapons and military equipment work, that none of the only things, none of the smallest bullets went past the law, past transparency, and that we are one of the countries in the world that, when it comes to export, control, arms transport and military equipment, is at the very top. You know everything. It's so hard to get anything out of this country, to give anyone any kind of privilege, that so many people in the country decide that you can so casually claim that anyone has any privilege, that he's used anything, that he's exported, that he hasn't had a license, that he's also been dumping prices and in the end he's broken the law. It is simply impossible in circumstances where you have such one transparency not only in the country, but also abroad and where the control of arms trafficking is not only done here, not only does the Ministry of Defence, BIA, MUP, foreign affairs, trade, but also abroad and the UN, so don't, please. We're just making a name in the people that something is done here, that someone doesn't know something, that someone's exporting something in arms and that someone's making something without anyone knowing it. It's just impossible. Everything is known when it comes to arms and military equipment not only because of us, because of the circumstances in the world, because of wars in the world, you have to know exactly where it went, what it went to and at what price it was sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67385	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. I'm now setting a break by 15.00 hours. We're going back to work. Radeta's colleague is in the system and Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 52nd and other members, which state: "A day of publication", were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 56th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this Law on Public Procurement, we should point out each time, is the result of the EU's insistence, which has dictated to you both the previous and this one now and again, they have objections to the application of the Law, especially as some of the provisions that they have foreseen here will, they say, apply when Serbia enters the EU, and that means never. But we Serbian radicals have objections to the application of the Public Procurement Act, because actually this law, and now the current one, but not the previous one, is being applied. It is not applicable because the Institute of Small Procurement is being misused, because the Institute is being abused and the Institute of Procurement is being misused without a tender. As much as it bothers you, we will remind you unconsciously that you have passed a law of lex specialis, a special law, to allow the US firm Bechtel to get jobs on the highway from Preljina to Pojat and that this job costs Serbia 300m euros more than it really is worth. It is something that has been done and which has been planned more than a year ago, in fact since October of that activity, and then it has been explained to us for a while that this is done for better relations with the United States, which, of course, has nothing to do with it, since Bechtel has nothing to do with the United States, except that the company located in that country, as it has no idea how many companies in Serbia that have nothing to do with the state, on the contrary, can be in serious conflicts and crime and corruption, etc., but only in the territory of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67388	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word. Comrade Arsic, I take it you'll be wasting your time on an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? (Veloljub Arsic: From the parliamentary group. I thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67389	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I have now heard of the Institute of Contracts... (Miljan Damjanovic: Tendera. )......................................................................................................... Or the tender, anyway. I don't think it's a crime. It can't possibly be an institute. Let's get this straight first. The second thing, the public purchases of small values, is the same procedure as for any other public procurement, are only somewhat shorter advertising and bid-gathering deadlines, so that it cannot be the subject of abuse, except that it is not subject to the law of the sanctioned sanctions. But what is constantly going on is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has set up a job considered public works to build the Moravia Corridor. And the whole story is about Minister Zorana Mihajlovic setting up the job. As far as I know, the ministry in this case cannot participate without the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the ministry can conduct a negotiating process, but before that it must have the consent of the Public Procurement Authority, so when the negotiation process is completed, to inform the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a special decision and, based on that specific decision, to have a minister or vice-president sign or a Prime Minister sign such a contract. Finally, if this is an interstate agreement, which in this case is not, consent would have to be given by the National Assembly. It is a whole procedure for someone passing, or applying only one part of the Public Procurement Act, to get a job in the negotiation process, when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, does anyone want to tell me that, here, an authorised representative of the promoter, the Government, Mr. Minister Zoran Djordjevic, has been corrupt and has participated in such a fraud? Will someone tell me and convince me that the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, is a criminal who took part in such a procedure? I don't want to put all the ministers in line. There's only one desire here to be on the basis of political points, which is legitimately right, but it's legitimately right for us to respond and explain what's true, to get some political points. I don't mind that, but I do have to say this need to answer that it has nothing to do with the truth. The second thing, to base this theory on an offer made by another company, when it is not even a leading negotiation process, and that it is reportedly cheaper for 300m euros, I must say that in every procedure, even in a negotiating process, there is a specification of public works to be carried out and that this specification is based on an assessment of the value of public works, and based on the estimated value of public works, companies that can, of course, be called upon to participate in these public works. Now does anyone really believe that besides a whole of this kind of procedure being conducted, a more expensive job, believe it or not, can be assigned 300m euros. I really can't believe it. It's not three, it's not 13, it's 300m euros, so I ask the question, when someone says something like that, can they imagine what 300m euros is? The second thing, also through this discussion is one campaign, I say again, legitimately, but we have to answer that no one has yet asked the question – was the original offer, which was given four or five years ago, the cord of the Morava River and its tributaries? Now I'm asking another question -- can anyone really normal make a highway without providing it from the floods, from the floods that were there, because it's a blue area? I think it may have been possible during the former regime, Dragan Gilas, Boris Tadic, at that time, that anything was possible, to make the highway from the field to the field, with some other field skipping, because the expropriation process was not completed. Next, a whole family made themselves around that expropriation. Who's expropriating? The expropriation is done by local self-government based on a decision on public interest. There's protection, of course. It is judicial protection, but all other authorities in the process, the procedure of expropriation, are bound to be effective and to make decisions or judgments in time. Now somebody says, "We're gonna make a highway, and we're not gonna fix the riverbed of Morava, so God forbid it's until these works are flooded and carried away by water." Let's see if that offer, an exclusive offer, which someone claims is even more favourable, has also predicted the editing of the river Morava. Furthermore, let's see, it's not just the construction of a highway, which is a prerequisite for the economic development of that part of Serbia, but I guess through the construction of that highway we'll protect both agricultural land and settlements along the highway, or we'll solve the decades-old problem our citizens have on that section of the highway. Now I ask the question – does anyone really think it's free? You can't just, by an obvious method, evaluate whether something has been misused or something isn't used, etc. Who's doing an evaluation? I guess companies that have the right licenses and are involved in designing this kind of work. They don't have to be national. We also have a CIP, but it doesn't have to be state. In the end, all of this should be the subject of the work of the DRI to inform the National Assembly whether a good estimate of the value of the works is done and whether the money is really spent on that scale as it should be. One more thing. There is also a court that gives citizens whether it really is or not, whether they really need it or not, and whether, as someone is saying, they have taken money from Serbian citizens. Nothing's been taken, everything's been seen. So every MP, every citizen can literally see how money is spent. Let's make a parallel with some other shares, not necessarily in Serbia, not even in Croatia, here, to make parallel prices with highways and similar works done in Western European countries. When we're comfortable with Western Europe, it's good, by some, when it doesn't fit, it's evil, it imposes solutions on us, it imposes on us the Law on public procurement, etc. Just one more question to ask – if one of our companies wants to participate in the public works process in another country, is it possible and will it be able to do so if it does not work in similar or the same legislation that is in that country? Let us not, then, pass such laws to prevent our companies, who have a desire to work somewhere in EU countries, from working because we are going to agree on our legislation. Don't let that story go any further. Nobody's gonna believe that anymore. You can continue, it's your legitimate right, but when all this is over, ask the citizens what they think about it, but don't hide behind Bechtel or anyone else then, but really ask them if they needed it, whether they were better and whether they thought the money was used properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67390	Thank you. My colleague Radeta, would you like a replica of my colleague Arsic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67391	Every time I admire my colleague, Arsic, as a lawyer, beginning to explain some legal standards, but what he would say – it is his legitimate right, but much more important than that – he explained where 300m euros went. He explained that it would be spent on the Moorava arrangement, and then I concluded that perhaps there would be some handiwork there with gold. I don't know how else to spend that much money on a river basin. When it comes to expropriations, he also confessed to counterpart Arsic, he says, he will not wait for someone to stop for expropriation, etc. You know, private property is sacred. Until that problem is solved, there's no further business. You need to get rid of the bag. If you could give Zoran 300 million euros, then get rid of the bag, and pay the people well what you take from them. No one's against it, and we're all aware, and those people on the ground are aware of what the general interest is. If the general interest is determined, everyone should respect it. The general interest can't be at the expense of any individual, at the expense of anyone's property, and you're doing it right now. He says, too, that we need to ask the citizens if they are satisfied with Bechtelom, Zorano, I did not understand. No, we ask citizens – are they satisfied that two million people in Serbia and more than that receive a minimum wage that is below 37,000 dinars, pensions below 37,000 dinars and a consumer basket cost 37,000 dinars? We ask these citizens, these more than two million people in Serbia, how do they do it, how, where do they replace that difference they don't get in the name of the earner, or the name of the pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67392	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go. (Alexander Seselj: I answered. A colleague of Seselj, you can't get a replica on one of Arsic's exhibits. So, she got a line from a colleague of Radet, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, given that the exposure was directed... Alexander Seselj throws. ) You can follow the amendment, of course, but there is currently a dialogue on the relationship between Radeta and her colleague Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67393	If there are two million employees in Serbia who receive a minimum or slightly above the minimum, it means that Serbia has 20 million inhabitants. Pretty much, that would be the order of size. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Furthermore, it's not a bag at Zorana Mihajlovic's, but a bag at Bastac's and we'll clear it up immediately as a lawyer and as a layman you should know, and they say waterproof. Also, I have no intention of teaching lawyers the law, they certainly know it better than I do, but I am saying some things because of the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia that they know what it really is. Also, I would never as a lawyer ask the question of the value of the works, especially on the protection of the river Morava's spills in a part of the highway called the Moravia Corridor, because really as a lawyer I would leave it to other people who know, who are of the profession, who have experience, really do. Whether it's worth gold or the value of simple concrete, I'm leaving it to them because I don't want a discussion to come down to normal banality.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67394	I thank my colleague Arsic. Do you want a replica of Radeta's colleagues? You wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: By Amendment. ) Here are my colleagues, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67395	I just want one sentence or two maybe. First, my colleague Arsic makes it up. We've said it exactly multiple times -- 300,000 people work for the minimumer and another 400,000 for a little bit more than the minimum. More than a million pensioners get minimum pensions, even the average are much lower than the minimum. It's these more than two million people in Serbia who live with wages and pensions that can't get close to the consumer basket that you've calculated, your statistics and that's 37,000 dinars. As long as you don't say that the lowest salary is 37,000 dinars and the lowest pension of 37,000 dinars, you're free of everything you do, you're socially irresponsible and unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67396	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67397	It doesn't decide what kind of power you or I are, the citizens in the election decide. We'll measure in about a month what they think of us and you. There's something I need to tell you, Mr. Secretary. You know whose ideology and idea that minimum profit must be at the cost of the consumer basket? Here's what I'm gonna say. It's the idea of Zoran Stojiljkovic, professor, doctor, teaching at the Faculty of Politics. I don't mind that either, so let him deal with it. However, Mr. Minister, there's one more thing you need to know. He's also president of the Grand Union of Independence. Let me explain to you what the union is, except that the citizens of Serbia suffered the consequences of the strike in the post office, let's say, we can assume it's some kind of struggle for employees' rights, but another strike was supported by a strike of the most common thieves and thieves in the Republic Catastre. He supported Zoran Stoljkovic, which is the same whose ideology now follows with a minimum labour price and a consumer basket, supported criminals who did not allow citizens to enter the Republic Catastre, say here in Belgrade on March 27th, and to exercise their rights with non-visit workers. They beat the shit out of the citizens. Such ideology was followed by Zoran Stojiljkovic, who supported the strike of corrupt workers at the Republic Geodesy Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67398	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67399	Minister Djordjevic said two days ago that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing its best to make minimum earnings at the height of the consumer basket as soon as possible. Is that why they're going to lose the ministerial chair, if Arsic wonders or doesn't, Minister, I'm sorry, but here's Arsic, he really resents you. As far as we're going to be measured in the next election, we will, we'll just see who's going to be on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67400	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67401	You know what, in order to be on the SNS list, you're going to have to do a lot of things and learn to be on one of those lists. Let's get this straight. So, on that side, let's get this straight. The conditions are very difficult, competition very serious because in SNS we do not deal with demagogy, we do not deal with banking, but we deal with the problem of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we deal with one topic, which is that Serbia is a much nicer place to live, to work with everyone, both in the east and in the north and in the south, with everyone who wants to co-operate with us too, not to submit to political pressures and not to look at all black and white, but to live in this reality and to preserve both the country and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67402	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67403	I was just about to ask Arsic -- how is it on Tom Nikolic's list when he said the side of the world like Toma Nikolic used to say. I have no ambition, colleague Arsic, to be on that list of yours and you know it well and all of Serbia knows it. You're the one who, with a stolen SRS mandate, went to the SNS and if you had any morals, you wouldn't have opened the topic. But I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about what your party president is telling you. He says one third of you will be replaced by some new clean and honest, and I, as someone who logically thinks, conclude that those thirds that go away are dirty and unfair. I'm just translating the Wolf and nothing more than that. I'm just thinking if you're gonna be the two-thirds you're gonna stay or you're gonna be in that third you're gonna take away. If for nothing else, it's because of those four sides of the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67404	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67405	Now, interpreting the character and work of Alexander Vukic is grateful. However, putting words in his mouth that he did not say is neither grateful nor clever. All citizens in the Republic of Serbia, who followed it, heard the following -- that he wants the junior SNS parliamentary group with young honest people and that's his goal because as a man who thinks about Serbia's future, he also thinks about the future of the SNS and that's what Alexander Vucic really said. We can personally talk about whether he's gonna be on the list or on the list. I don't really care about that right now. What I said - we will measure in the elections, I mean the results of Alexander Vukic and the SNS against the opposition and the former regime. So, as usual, we will be alone against everyone and we will win as we have won both 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and 2018. We'll win in 2020. It seems to bother you the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67406	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67407	I don't even know what you're going to do in the election when you know exactly how you're going to win and how you're going to win. It's best that you listen to these mentors of yours who want to extend your deadline to declare a state of emergency and hold no election at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67408	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. A colleague, Arsic, is giving up on the replica. Now let's go, colleague Risticevic, according to the amendments. You've heard from your colleague Seselj before and you've changed. (Alexander Seselj: I don't want the amendment.) You can't get from that replica. A colleague of Radeta's got a replica. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Don't. It's not like that. You see, we've been conducting a dialogue. My colleague Rističević, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Moravage is rich. When nature doesn't rage, the Mooring is a shell that when it sits in it creates pearls. Why am I saying this? In the floods that were, it seems to me, in 2014, Mr Arsic, the damages were measured hundreds of millions of euros. Construction, procurement, highway construction, the issue of the Morava tributary and the Morava waterway is being resolved. The dangers that were in 2014, when the project was completed, are being prevented. It is impossible to repeat in 2014 and this is something that is likely to take part in the cost of road construction and waterway recovery, i.e. the water stream arrangement not only of Morava but also of the tributary. If this prevents floods, and experts claim it seems, only one year in the area to flood, the damage amounts to over 100m euros. So, if 100,000 hectares submerged, know that the damage is greater than 100m euros that year, if God does not give rise to the flood again in that area. That's why I believe it collects works, and that's why my support for construction is, not only the road, because of traffic, but also because of the arrangement of water flows and the prevention of disaster that hit us in 2014, which, apart from agricultural works of 100 million euros, can also endanger houses worth far more than 100 million euros, stock fund, stops, economic facilities and so on. One more thing to say, if vehicles go that way, fuel savings are about 20m euros a year. Let me also tell you that the largest Serbian sites are Jasenovac, Jadovno, Kragujevac, and the Ibar Highway, and then those areas. How much are human lives saved by building a highway to Cačka and costing human lives that will be saved by building the Moravia Corridor, continuing to build a highway to Montenegro, this cannot be measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67410	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67411	Well, you see, I've been forced, even though it's a red letter, to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to corruption, I have to point out that large crime is taking place in the area of agricultural state land, because it is the damage that has been done to the state of Serbia since 2005 and here, at least until 2012, as far as I have the data, but the question is whether it has continued. Billions are at stake. I ask the question – where is the money spent from the state agricultural land? Furthermore, local self-government budgets are now giving out funds for the ataric routes. Now, please, is the question now – the quality of the Atharic roads? And secondly, who, in which municipality holds the monopoly over the construction of these highways, and is it gravel and gravel, or is it concrete and asphalt? There's a big difference. One Shiptar said, "I've got a Blink, I've got a Blink to make cell pathways." I don't think they're making cell pathways, but they're making roads, if it's an Atarian road, but they're being controlled by the competent agriculture ministry, which is the price per square metre and length? And who's holding the monopoly? And was it called a contest or not? I'm still asking the question -- how much is out of the budget, let's just say one municipality. Is the city of Panchev out for sport? How many sports companies are there? How many sports companies have received funding from the budget, and how many have received individuals from the budget back five years? I'd like to be given a valid answer, but with authentic data. When it comes to agriculture and issuing state land and when it comes to eco tax, where does that tax go? We have a businessman in Panchev who's responsible for dangerous waste and imagine all the organs have been silent. Only BIA followed and documented that crime. If it hadn't been for the BIA that I'm giving confession to what she did here, that criminal who black-headeded many, and on the other hand, the most polluted city in the Republic of Serbia, would have risked the lives and health of citizens. However, thanks to the BIA as the only authority that has consistently conducted the evidence and documented, however, the indictment is with the prosecutor. For a year and a half, the D.A.'s office has the indictment in a drawer. What's going on here, gentlemen? Is there a crime or not? Let's see how many cities he's leased on state land and what municipalities? I don't answer that question for six months, because it's not easy given because it's a crime of deep roots.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67412	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as agricultural land is concerned, we worked hard to digitize the map of all state-owned agricultural parcels. So, everything's transparent. By entering the Land Administration website you can choose any plot, they are marked by state, in any municipality and to look at the status of that land. Who's the tenant, how many years is the lease, is probably the price contained, etc. So it's very transparent, if you want to check now, it wasn't the case before. If criticism refers to a previous period before the regime, I understand. Now it's very transparent. By changing the Law on Land three, four years ago, when Canak and the team protested here, we arranged relations in the agricultural land of state property. So that usurp that was measured by tens of thousands of acres was prevented. More than 70,000 hectares of land in state property were introduced into the agricultural land system, so the land is no longer usurped. I understand if the criticism refers to a period prior to the change of the Agricultural Land Act, before digitization, etc. Now it's all verifiable. If there is an objection, you click nicely, find the number of plots, deliver it to the Land Administration and the authorities will react as they did in the Golubins, both in India and in some other municipalities, where there was abuse of agricultural land. Incomes achieved by local self-government and intended for Atari roads are managed by local self-government. So they take care of the ataric pathways, they perform these works, they divulge the competitions previously. So that's a question for local self-government, not the Assembly. If there is any abuse, then not only the BIA, but other competent authorities will react and such a application should only be filed. Therefore, this falls under public procurement, and if local self-government violates a rule on adhesion routes, the arrangements of agricultural land which are also financed from these revenues, the commissions if financed from these revenues, in which case the authorities will react, as they have so far reacted. Just file a report and that's the moment we act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67414	Comrade Malusic, you gave up. Right? You can pick up the amendment, colleague Jojic. (Petar Jojic: Replica. You can do it by amendment, colleague Jojic. (National MPs of the SRS speak out loud. ) Col. Rističević did not mention you, and he spoke about the amendment, but he did not mention you. What he was saying under the amendment is not the basis for you to get... (National MPs of the SRS speak out loud. )... but he didn't answer to you fellow Jojic, he was wasting the time of the parliamentary group and you can get the time of the parliamentary group if you want. All right. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by the National Ambassador of the Master Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67415	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank you, although perhaps I least expected this amendment to be adopted, and I expected more of these others that I have proposed to the other members of the law to be accepted, because they are perfectly clearly explained, in a perfectly normal way they regulate the law. I just took the opportunity to say what the purpose of this amendment was and which was accepted. It is the fact that under the current proposal there was free will of the contracting authority whether or not to implement the negotiation procedure. So far, according to the applicable law, it has been given the consent of the Public Procurement Authority. On the proposal of our amendment, we returned it. Thank you for accepting that. I'd like to ask you clearly, this announcement of mine is in the direction of being prepared in time, that we have not yet matured to leave one of these to the contracting authorities, but okay, evidence that the amendment has been accepted, that we haven't matured to leave it to the contracting authorities, but I also think that these things that we're going to take into consideration before we start talking about it. Nothing, there's so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67416	Thank you, colleague Radenkovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was already talking about the fact that during the former procurement regime it was a secret, and military secrets were public. Specially preceded by Ponos, Jeremic, etc. They even boasted that they retired wartime officers, how they had well disarmed the country, and not armed, as instead of turning the country into a military neutral state, into a military neutralist, etc. As an opposition, I'm afraid they're moving on. The stories of the dedicated industry, fictional affairs, are irreparable damages that are being done in this country and that kind of work that takes place as a military industry, or as a dedicated one. What I mean. If someone they call an alarmer, and it's not, that this status doesn't have, he hasn't reported any irregularities for five years to the authorities, he's been collecting information not just his own, he's been stealing from his computer colleagues. If this information was provided to the Bulgarian journalist in the form of a Bulgarian journalist named Gajtanjieva, and based on this information, the Bulgarian parties and other interested parties were able to determine the type of production, the type of customers, the number of customers, which the goods best go, which are the prices, the size of the production, the size of the plasma, which are the most common markets. Then what else was he supposed to do without being a spy? What kind of alarmer is that, if based on all this information you can conclude what “Krusik”, “First Partizan” and “Lucans” products are. So this is what those who boycott the work of the National Assembly do, who boycott the national elections. They work directly against their country. For this country, they don't work, which they all do, it takes the authorities to determine. So if that's how they deliver information, that's how they destroy this country's dedicated industry, which employs 11,000 people. It is no secret that after the affair, an alleged false alarmer, a common spy, the Bulgarian side has concluded contracts intended for "Krusku" worth 80m euros. This is the damage suffered by the dedicated industry, workers who pay, on that salary, to fill that consumer basket, or to bring bread to their families and family members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67418	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Well, the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Serb Slav Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67419	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, never ends the story of corruption, the crime surrounding the team of Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and Marinika Cobanov. We must also say why so many attacks in recent weeks on President Aleksandar Vukic and Minister Stefanovic, his father, on the family and why our dedicated industry is actually being torn down. What is the goal of all this and the attack, after all, on Krusik, where President Aleksandar Vukic is to be brought down at the last stage, should bring down the entire state of Serbia. What's behind that? The interests behind this are that of certain services of intelligence outside the Republic of Serbia, but above all the criminal interests of the tycoon in the Republic of Serbia, led by Dragan Djilas, and for him the whole job, I would say, under the grain or whatever, by his godfather, Mladja Djordjevic, co-worker of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas. He's actually the one who's trying to destroy Serbia's dedicated industry. Of course, people who do research have come to this, journalists have come to this, the media has come to this, it's a lot of writing, but it's also about a certain Peter from Kaludierica, who's about to be talked about, who secretly keeps in touch with the supposed alarmer, and I call him alarmed or excited, because his mother is no longer in a place she dreamed of in Krusik. In particular, he is excited and his lady mother, because the child was discovered, the child fell, the child's child was found to be doing what Mama's child was doing, it was found out that Mom's father in Krusik was not doing the job for Krusik, but was doing a job for intelligence services aimed at bringing down Krusik, to bring down the state of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, it was found out that Mom's child was doing nothing in the interests of the company, businesses where he was employed, but all against the interests of the state of Serbia. Of course, such a person cannot be alarmed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. There are exactly the legal conditions by which you can be an alarmer, to gain alarm status. That's right, Lazar... (incomprehensible) acquired and gained alarm status, as he addressed the competent institutions for assistance. So we see that people who have sold and sold information about our dedicated industry, about the weapons, how they are produced, how they operate within the framework of "Kruška", actually work against Serbia's interest, are coming up with all these affairs to shake both Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. They will certainly not be able to do so, they will continue to investigate it and who Petar is from Kaludjerica, and what Mladja Djordjevic is doing, how and why he is very often staying in Valjevo, who are seen in restaurants, what kind of criminals, what drug dealers, who are their godfathers, who are chubby, who are all similar to their brother-in-laws in prisons. The Serbian Progressive Party and our officials have no such company. We don't work in cafes, we sit in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, discuss laws. We don't sit in cafes with mobs and criminals, our brother-in-laws aren't drug dealers, our friends are working in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and we'll all continue to do so together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67420	The amendment to article 66 was submitted by MP Nikola Savic, if anyone wants a word. I give the word to the MP, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 66 of this law where I have asked for the position of the fourth member to be changed. In fact, I've been looking for this for a reason if it stays the way the law provides it can cause any problems in the application of this law. It will simply be brought about, if nothing else questions the principle of ensuring competition, that it is really so possible we have seen on countless examples. It's clear to me, and I know that no regulation, no law can cover all the nuances of reality, but even if it is necessary to make sure that the regulations are clear, precise, so defined that they leave a minimum possibility for those who intend to search for holes in the law and there is nothing questionable. The principle of ensuring competition, or it can be called the principle of preventing competition, and we have seen, as I said, on a large number of examples, one of them is "Bechtel," but in other areas there are such examples especially at the level of local self-government. Indeed, the time that SNS has at its disposal is very little and short to count all these examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67422	According to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic has the People's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67423	Thank you. Public procurement specialist Dragan Gilas, and who else would. All we can remember is the restoration of King Alexander's Boulevard, which cost us 17m euros. The job in the tender was given to a company that didn't meet the conditions, normally during that time, and the job came through for about 600 million dinars. Belgrade citizens paid sixm euros to install a validator in the GSP vehicles, although it was logical that Apeks listens to technologians, who got a job introducing the Bus Plus system, did it for free. For sixm euros, Belgraders were damaged during the installation, remember, rusty underground containers that were constantly broken down, and money was being drawn from the city register for their repair. Now, let's see what analyst Mr. Dusan Janjic says. He says -- criminal responsibility for Gilas, he estimated that Gilas's work while he was mayor was the worst, he says -- never worse mayor. It is a period of planned failures said Mr. Janjic, and we will take the bridge on Ada as an example. We're all about that bridge a hundred times, it's known it was supposed to cost 190m euros, it cost 400m euros, and in France it cost twice as much as seven sawdust. So much for him, and now we're moving on. Five times less, my colleague says, I agree, we don't have exactly how much the bridge cost on Ada, you'll see what he did with those 200 million that went missing. It should be examined for whether it was someone who wanted to take the money, I think it was without a trace that 200m euros were missing. The second bad project is the boulevard of King Alexander, with great damage to the infrastructure we know about. Urbanism is now under the control of the mafia in 2000, says Mr. Janjic, which has lost large green areas. It is about the ossion's will to destroy Belgrade, as if the city were run by someone who hates it says Mr. Janjic. Now, let's see what happens to 200 million. He says -- as Belgrade's debt grew, the mayor's control increased, says Mr. Janjic, I'm just reading. In May 2012, Gilas bought a villa in Senjak, and you will not believe about a million euros. He also bought a duplex at Vračar, next to the Temple of St. Sava, and for what he spent 700,000 euros on. Gilas' wealth has increased 800 times since he came to power. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67424	Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67425	A topic that weighs many companies in Serbia, those facing unfair competition, which was also the subject of the report, both DRI and through the evaluations of the Fiscal Council, because the inability of those not drawn by the bidder to get a job in public procurement. When I say drawn because the technical conditions prescribed for many public procurement jobs draw exactly who gets the job. And, that's... Arsic, I'll draw you later. I don't mind. Really, really easy to draw your character. You know how we drew Chiche Glissu and I add it a little bit, and that's it. (President: Arsic did not tell you. Please, your colleague Arsic didn't tell you. The one who said the one will be drawn. So, as for the previous criminal charges over the past five years, they've almost been gone. Then when you face someone in the process of challenging some public procurement, first of all, according to this law, and we have submitted that amendment, that tax is very high. What's most problematic is that the citizens of Serbia know, maybe you didn't want to see it so much, fellow MPs, it's a follow-up contract. How are these works carried out, and what conditions are some abnormal for certain processes of public procurement and procedures, prescribed? Let's say it's only one illustration for, if you apply for a five-million-dollar job, you have to have a 90-percent twist. If you want, someone was just talking about the roads, and there's a colleague named Jojic, and then Risticevic, to do something small, you have to have an asphalt base and it's exactly prescribed what its capacity is, and it's known that someone close to the individual structures of the government has it. Simple drawing, drawing of those who need to get a job is a manner that is absolutely obvious. That's what the employers' union tells you. That's what the DRI reports tell you. It's just something that's a degree of corruption that can't be clearly exploited.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67426	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 71st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67427	Thank you, Vice President. I'm almost out of place. I have submitted an amendment to Article 75. In Article 75. The draft law after Article 6 shall be added to the new position 7 which reads - the provisions of Article 141-153 of this Act shall be applied accordingly in the procedure of the award of the contract. So far, attitudes 7 to 11 become attitudes from 8 to 12. The position of the 8th position so far becomes the position of the 9th position, and it is said that the contracting authority is obliged to publish the notice referred to in Article 8 three months in summary within 30 days of the end of the quarter in which the contracts are concluded. Since we've got to take a little bit of action on the subject because I don't think there's a right here, that is, secure protection of law. It is not prescribed here and as proposed, as I have already said, there is no safeguard for the rights of the bidder, because as soon as there is no contract published, then there is no deadline for appeal. For example, I can point out, that's in favor of seven. So, there's all those who... I may be jumping off the subject, maybe it's not interesting to you, but I'd ask you to listen, because this is about the law so that after the law was passed, there are no gaps in law enforcement. I ask you to address the stage, because here under this Article 75. there are physical and technical security, legal, health services, administrative services, and all of this is in Annex seven, which is part of this law that we are discussing today and amendments to the same law that we want to correct with our knowledge, with our perhaps experience in practice. So it would be good, Minister, if you could accept this amendment today. You're right, because you, I even think you've been in a situation of one. This is where tenders for food preparation are made, for example. Socially endangered categories, for kindergartens. So here are the big and serious purchases. An example of the Dedinje Military Institute took part in a tender for the storage of food for socially endangered people at Belgrade's level. With this proposal, as it stands in Article 75, there is simply no right, no protection of rights is provided. We'll have a problem if we adopt it the way it is. I am correcting it with my amendment and it is clearly defined that the contract must be published on the basis of which the bidder will have the right to seek his protection of rights. If he stays like this, he doesn't have any time limits to appeal. I hope we understand each other and if it's possible to think about it a little bit and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67428	I thank my colleague Radenkovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 81 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67429	Article 81 and the title above article 81 are actually a mirror of the work of this government. Here, now the citizens need to hear what it says in the Public Procurement Act, our law in Serbian. It writes – procurement of contracting entities involving contracting entities from different EU Member States. Could this be normal for someone, that in our law we give special privileges to someone who is a member of the EU? It's really amazing, what our people would say, whose grandmothers you're doing this for, what's wrong with you people. The EU dictates the laws to you, but you have to act as they tell you to, em, you make laws that, they say, will apply when Serbia enters the EU, which means you never, ever make these disastrous things. It's like a Republic office was working for you for a waste of time. You know there's this on the Google map in Belgrade's Workers' Street, a republican waste of time office. It really seems that this office has been working for you and this bill of law. This is not the only anomaly of this law, this can serve as something that is truly the rapper of your behavior, but the bottom line is that neither this law that you will adopt nor that which is now in force will change anything compared to the corruption that is happening in public procurement. After all, all the regulatory bodies here in the National Assembly presented their reports, all of them said that one of the main problems in functioning from local self-government to the government of the Republic of Serbia is public procurement, avoidance and misuse of public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67430	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67431	I view this topic a little differently because it is also about the funds that we receive as a donation from the EU or under privileged conditions, and so far this procedure has been conducted without the participation of our country and our contracting authorities. I don't understand why there's something going on here. What keeps going on here is that Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic are implementing EU or leading EU countries. If that were true, as it keeps going through, today our AP KiM would be recognised as an independent state. If that were true today, Republika Srpska would not exist, there would already be a unitary BiH state, whose territorial integrity we respect, but we also respect the integrity of Republika Srpska as an entity. If we were to execute EU dictatorships today, not some of my distinguished colleagues would be sitting in parliamentary benches, but on the indictees' benches in The Hague. To be honest I'm not up for it, they should be MPs here, they should represent their political programmes, they should be involved in the work of their parties, and in the end, if there's anything the prosecution has against them, let's go to the domestic justice system, let's see what's going on. When you state all of this, let someone tell me seriously that the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic execute foreign dictatorships of leading EU countries or Aleksandar Vukic leads exclusively a policy that is in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67432	Thank you. (Alexander Seselj:...) to comment on our party's opinion on membership with the EU. Did you mention that? I didn't hear you mention the SRS. (Alexander Seselj: How did he not mention? He said, "If they say it or they say it, that means he said it." That doesn't just mean radicals. Excuse me, Comrade Seselj. It's not just radicals, it means other political options, but here, the next amendment is yours, so you'll have opportunities. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 81st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've had a chance to hear from the distinguished Mr. Arsic some things, which, least of all, are not true. I'm not going to say that he deliberately lied because he might not have read the call for the construction of the Moravian Corridor that was published in "Politicals", perhaps he didn't read it, maybe he was just listening to what Zorana Mihajlovic was saying, perhaps he lied on purpose. The call was made so that only the Bechtel could pass on it, and it was a key one provision, that the company could only register which in the region of Southeast Europe had already built more than 800km of highway, which is only Bechtel, and we could see it in Albania and Croatia. In both cases, we saw huge affairs because it was also subscribed to a direct contract only. Now imagine this nebulosis. There is talk of public procurement, therefore, of a procedure that should eliminate corruption, which should be the most favourable thing for Serbia, to prevent any theft and where the best possible offers for the least money would occur in a healthy competition process and avoid completely negative selection. That's the point of public procurement. The other day, we had the Bechtel case and the Moravia Corridor. So there's ten times more stolen, who knows where that money is, I'm not going to reevaluate where that money went, but ten times more money than Alexander Vukic accused the Democratic Party of stealing on the Ljig – Preljina highway. And what are we talking about now? So it's ten times worse than the Democrats, and you're silent. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic says hypocritically in the morning RTS programme, - I am very sorry that no one else signed up for this call. Well, no one could apply because you wrote so that only "Bechtel" could pass, and you did it all because you want the support of the US Embassy for your stay in power because you are aware that if these Europeans change their minds, those who congratulated you three hours before the polls closed and congratulate someone else that it could lead you to one awkward position and then, probably, after that. The greatest possibility then is that the vast majority of SNS will slowly return to their home parties or perhaps to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67434	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. You want a replica as an authorised representative? Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67435	Indeed interesting theories -- that we are looking for the support of America to survive in the Republic of Serbia. Now, right away, we don't need anyone's support except for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be in power in the Republic of Serbia. We're interested in them. We represent their interests, not Americans, not other countries, but exclusively the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And to bother many about it, we disturb both in the region and in the world. You're saying we need support from America. Not us. We'll never look for her, from any other administration, from any other country. We'll ask for support from our citizens. Let's get this straight. One more thing. If that were the case, then where did these ducks get the funds to organize all those water rallyings on Belgrade? Who's bringing them money? Who's giving them? What will the representatives of the U.S. administration do with these myths? Why are the so-called funds being financed? a government or civil sector that invents affairs in Serbia, such as the Krusik affair? Where are they financed from? Who are they handing over their projects to? Who's paying them for these projects? Who pays them to attack Alexander Wolfie? Who pays them to attack the SNS, but also the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? And if you really think we're naive, that if Bechtel gets a job, it won't continue in the Republic of Serbia, so we're not naive. And it has nothing to do with "Bechtel", simply, the great powers have some of their interests in this part of Europe, some of our interests match theirs, some of them don't match, and that's their problem. We will exclusively lead politics in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67436	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67437	First, it's not the first time right now with the Bechtel to try a certain amount of money to gain American favor and American support. I remind you, Alexander Vukic donated two million euros to the Bill and Hillary Clinton humanitarian foundation before the 2016 elections in America. And then he was justifying it with his show on TV, because he was smart at the time. I don't want to comment on it anymore, I just want to say that this "Bechtel" thing isn't the first time. Of course, Mr. Arsic is right about everything he said. They also finance various NGOs and various other political parties in Serbia, movements, and whatever. They need backup options. This is if you stand alone, if you start making some decisions that are exclusively in the Serbian national interest, not in the interests of the IMF, the World Bank, the European Union, the North Atlantic Pact and other Western forces, then they can force someone else. So they need more players. And, of course, as it was with Tadic, as it was with Slobodan Milosevic, when they needed him, they supported him. When they didn't need him anymore, they threw him away. That's how it's gonna be with you. There's no reason for it to be different. We're not against building a highway, we just don't want that kind of money to be thrown, twice as much, because it's one crime and corruption, exactly the opposite of what Mr. Minister was talking about here, and you in your discussions in principle debate. Apparently, that's what the books say, that Bechtel is one of the companies that is under the auspices of the CIA and serves as a geopolitical weapon and a means to extract money from enslaved countries. We saw this in Albania, Croatia, Serbia, Ukraine. In Ukraine the main man is Joe Biden, one of the candidates for President of the United States, is now the main man who wonders about all the resources of the state of Ukraine. And that's what he's trying to bring to Serbia. It'll be the same with the Nis-Medara route, so it'll be with any other way. They'll see that you're lenient and then they'll go here to steal from you, threatening to turn the United States against you if you don't pay them a racket.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67438	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67439	That's how it happens when someone gets informed, whether it's from Culibrk, whether it's from Brkic, and then regrets that he said something. I will now read the condition: "The business criteria foresee, among other things, the employer's statement on the number of miles of highways built in Southeast Europe in the last 15 years. In case the applicant of the application is a consortium, the experience of the consortium will be summed up. The applicant for the highest-value application, built miles, will be rated with 15 points, the rest will be assessed proportionally compared to the highest-tempered value." Where's that 500-mile elimination condition? Now we're looking into each other's eyes. Where's that condition you just said? To read further: "The choice of a strategic partner is carried out by the government working group by publicly collecting offers to select a strategic partner". Government task force. I asked a question - does anyone think Mr. Djordjevic is a thief? Or the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic? Or the other ministers? This was really in the ad. The fact that others have not come forward is a matter of their business policy and their business interest. It's not ours. So there's been an offer. Everyone could have participated. And those companies you say were much cheaper, too. Why not, that's their problem. We don't want to deal with the team and wait for them to make the decision. Did they get another job so they are not interested in participating in public works in Serbia now, it is their business policy and business policy. But don't tell any more lies. The elimination conditions were gone. If it had been an elimination condition, the Commission would have already announced to the public procurement process that it was illegal and suspended. So, at any moment today, from advertising to telling the Commission's first-degree decision, you can appeal to the Commission for the protection of rights in public procurement proceedings. Why are you making this up more? Find me those 800 kilometers, unless they're at Culibrk's or at Brkic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67440	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67441	Well, Mr. Arsic, that was in "Politica" and, as far as I know, "Politics" is still under the control of the regime. So it's one of the regime's lists, but it's a really serious list. There is neither Brkic, nor Culibrk, nor this, nor that, but it is in a public call published by "Politics". Of course, I don't have a newspaper from two months ago with me, and you have some messages and who knows what you've read now, but the point is that Bechtel was here two years ago, when Kajal Scott was in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when the Co-operation Protocol was signed. Why Bechtel? Why not someone else? Were we dissatisfied with the engagement of Chinese companies that built Milos the Great, by taking Serbian subcontractors? Why? Were we not satisfied with that? We didn't. Was that the pride of Western Serbia, as Vucic said, while taking Serbian subcontractors? Here is Bechtel and Turkish subcontractors, and the price doubles. You say because of what we're saying now that we're against the highway, that's also another lie. We're not against highways, we're against crime. We are against corruption, and we are against the influence of the American embassy that is being realized through the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure. So that's what we saw. We saw that, and we were offended by the US ambassador, together with Zorana Mihajlovic. In the middle of Serbia's government, it says that Kosovo is an independent state for them and that Serbia needs to make peace as soon as possible, and Zorana Mihajlovic was the only one standing there and did not respond at all to that statement. That's it, that's the influence of the American Embassy. Don't be naive, don't talk about setting up a riverbed, etc. It's not just "Bechtel" that does it, and how can it be so double? How is it that every job that Bechtel has ever done involved in some kind of affair and some corruption and that the minister in Croatia had to resign because of this, because of public pressure? Because they also stole money, as in Albania, now it is Serbia's turn. It's not the first time. So that shows us, all the companies that do business here, so they're focused on taking money, which is under the auspices of the CIA. We've seen Wesley Klar, Madeline Albright and David Petreus what they bought in this region.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67442	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67443	Here, I call on my colleague to find in the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation the 800km. Here, I'm asking my colleague to find it. Why am I so sure? I will read again – business criteria are forecasting, among other things, the employer's statement on the number of miles of highways built in Southeast Europe in the last 15 years. In case the applicant of the application is a consortium, the experience of the consortium will be summed up. The applicant for the highest-value application, meaning, made kilometers, will be estimated at 15 points, the rest will be assessed proportionally compared to the highest-tempered value. Aman, that means it's not a 500-mile elimination. (Alexander Martinovic: It was built by the Chinese, the Azerbaijani. Let me draw. So much has been done by the Chinese and Azerbaijani in Southeast Europe. What do I care about Croatia? Let her take care of herself, let Albania take care of itself, we will take care of ourselves. So that 800 kilometers exists in someone's imagination. I'm really sorry if someone convinced you in their dreams. I'm really sorry, but don't, it means you're making a mistake. There is no elimination of 800km in public offering. When he builds the most kilometres, he will get 15 points, the rest of which are proportional to the number of miles of highways built on the territory of Southeast European countries. So there are other conditions for someone to get, it doesn't just have to be the number of kilometers made. There are also prices and deadlines, here, now that I'm not getting into it, the public procurement process is quite complicated and complicated, but you can't make a discriminatory offer that's not foreseen by law. Something like this isn't meant by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67444	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67445	Imagine, Mr. Arsic, how contradictory you are. So, you've read now a condition that didn't have to be necessary at all to have someone sign up here. Now what was the need for someone to be evaluated so much and so much now and to favor automatically the one who built more kilometers? Even if this wasn't true for 800 kilometers, what was the need to see who had built more, if we already knew that Bechtel had built here, in the region, so Albania and Croatia, and that through corruption affairs they had been giving jobs and that these governments were in scandals? Minister One resigned from Croatia. Is that not true now? Does Bechtel operate direct contracts? Yeah. So he first agreed, and then in co-operation with them, as Bechtel came here two years earlier, he issued a public call that only Bechtel could pass. Was there any other company there that could pass on that call other than Bechtella? No, because he was drawn to "Bechtel" and represented his ID card. So, please, we talked about this before it was ever signed, a commercial contract, after the US ambassador issued tasks in the government of the Republic of Serbia, first of all Zorani Mihajlovic, and others. That's when we warned about it, and you said don't talk about it now, let's wait and see who gets the job. That's what you were talking about, that's not true. And then, in the end, he just called Bechtel. Then how did we know that, and you didn't? How is that possible? You didn't know what was coming. He still says hypocritical Zorana Mihajlovic on TV, he says – I am very sorry that no one else answered. Well, no, maybe someone should've offered a bigger racket, maybe he'd have answered. It's the essence and so Bechtel is doing business. That's what books are already written about, what these companies where they're in charge are doing, in the principal offices of former CIA members. Don't act like you don't know that. I thought you were reading books, Mr. Arsic. Both in Ukraine and in Moldova and in the Baltic countries and in the countries of Eastern Europe, Albania, Croatia, now and in Serbia. What is our guarantee that we will not have a direct agreement again, first of all for this Nis-Medara highway, and then for these other roads that are built on Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67446	Thank you. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67447	Here, I'd like you to give me that book. I'd love to read it. But when you ask why it has to be in the ad? Because anyone who wants to build a highway must first have experience about it, must know something, must have equipment, mechanization. It's called references in the profession. So there must be references. It happens that companies that are newly founded don't have connected faces, they want to get jobs at any cost and often give jobs to work below the price, to get what? References. This is treated as an unusually low offer in the Public Procurement Act. Unfortunately, in this case, there was no unusually low offer in Serbia, that someone wanted to give up some of the profits when doing some work for the Republic of Serbia because of his references. So, he'd get a job, hardly anyone could cover the costs, but he'd get references to participate in some other projects where he'd later make a profit. It's a matter of who does public work, whether it's in his business interest or not. Don't just give your grades casually. If you had read all the way to the end, you would have seen the government's working group selecting the most favourable strategic partner to build a highway, informing the government of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal that the government of the Republic of Serbia will make the final decision and authority of a particular minister or member of the government, the vice president to sign the agreement. Read the whole ad nicely. You know what, it's not good math for Culibrk. He's the one who got mixed up. He doesn't know how many acres there are square meters. He's multiplying everything by 10, so he multiplied this by 10. And when he multiplys by 10, one goes to the contractors, and nine Bastace, Gilas, Tadić, and the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67448	Thank you. Right on the line, Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67449	First, when the story of the Moravia Corridor first appeared, the price was around 500m euros in circulation. We've heard it more than once from ministers from the then government. It was the government in 2014. And there were a few interested Chinese companies. Here are two questions. How did the price rise so much and plus there's still room left for it to be bigger? What's changed in four years? Secondly, how is it possible that a Chinese company building a highway in Serbia was good at building that highway, you weren't looking for it then, and now you're looking for it, and it hired Serbian subcontractors? And Mrs. Ana Brnabic, as prime minister, said in a comment that this US company that employs subcontractors from Turkey, imagine this now, she says -- ours are very busy, they have a lot of work to do and they couldn't get there. She just said it this week, four days ago. Did Anna Brnabić say that ours can't be subcontractors because they have a lot of work to do and they can't make it? That's what she said. I can find that for you. What does that mean? Is it possible that we live in such an illusion that our companies work, that they are so successful that they can't work in our country? Is that true? Secondly, Zorana Mihajlovic during her term showed her preferences over companies when she called for the punishment of Russian and Chinese companies that are building in Serbia, above all, around Pupin's Bridge and about the railways. Is that what happened? She expressed dissatisfaction publicly and said not everything was right in dealing with these companies. That's how it was. From the Russian Federation to China, Azerbaijan and the Serbian Orthodox Church insulted even during the widespread madness. So it's involved in introducing an American company into a Serbian market that takes a much higher price here than it's supposed to be, than it costs. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67450	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67451	To measure our companies with American, Chinese, Russian, Azerbaijani, I don't think it's real. You know what, I recommend you go through Serbia a little bit, so you can see how many construction sites and workshops there are, and then you can tell if Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is right or wrong. That's when you're right, but to be honest. Whether the offer is discriminatory or not, I can tell you, if it is – why did no interested party complain? To be clear, no one complained. One more thing – why did you not complain? As Alexander Seselj, write a complaint to the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures that the Government of Serbia regulation contains discriminatory provisions and the elimination of bidders to participate in the procurement process. The tendering process must be stopped at the moment and your appeal must be decided by the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Why didn't you? Who's defending you? What's the problem? Those 60,000 dinars, what are they going to pay? The SNS did not draw "Behtel". If you ask, the US administration in Serbia is an ambassador, that's what you call Scott. Is that right? What do you call him? Please, I'll just take a minute. That same ambassador has been delegated by the President of the United States of Trampa. I didn't draw Trump on my shirt. I drew you here in the Serbian Parliament. I didn't draw Bechtel. Maybe it's you. I don't know, but it's fortunate that your paintings in the government of the Republic of Serbia are not valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67452	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67453	First, because we're very stupid, we supported Donald Trump in the presidential election. We felt that it was better for the Serbian people then that we should not focus on them, and we were guided by Vladimir Putin's support before that and made a positive statement about him. You, because you're smart, supported Hillary Clinton and paid two million euros in the Hilary Foundation, Chelsea and Bill Clinton. Is that right? That's what Alexander Vukitch paid for. Where'd he get the money? I don't know. When I'm a little smarter, when I have two million euros, I'm going straight to Washington, I'm investing in the Clinton Foundation, so I can say that I'm smart too. You have experience wearing T-shirts, Mr. Arsic, and I can't discuss the subject with you. You really know a lot more about it than I do, but the thing is, if we have someone who's been testified, it's just serving American interests in the government of the Republic of Serbia... We've been talking about it since 2014, and you're not responding, not that it's now fallen from the sky. Zorana Mihajlovic, while she was in G17 plus, was at the same time serving American interests, as she is now serving in the SNS, especially as the minister of infrastructure. Do you see that half of your parliamentary group, and your membership, and your voters, and the ministers in the government, are unhappy with it, and you are not allowed to do anything. You're not supposed to do anything to her because she's an exhibit of American interest in the Serbian government. That's it. We spoke at a time when the protocol was signed two years before a public call was made. I guess that agency could've seen it by herself. Which agency can stand up to you when you put, first, all your people in those agencies, and secondly, from the Constitutional Court, from the judiciary, to all those agencies... They don't react, they don't advertise at all. They can only answer when someone doesn't report the property in time and punish him with 50,000 dinars and that's what they serve. Otherwise, if they were investigating corruption, Serbia wouldn't look what it looks like today, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67454	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67455	You see, young fellow, I cannot hide what I was doing as a National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Not only do I have no intention of hiding it, but for most of the things I've done, I'm not sorry at all. Among other things, I'm not sorry that I was in this same room, just, I think, this third row, fourth, wearing a T-shirt with a picture of SRS President Vojislav Seselj. You know why I wore it? To point to the world's public for violations of human rights and Vojislav Seselj, and Martic, and Karadzic, and Mladic, and all Serbs in The Hague tribunal. I've never worn a shirt with any stranger's face and anyone who's not a Serb or a Serbian citizen. There's a difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67456	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67457	Very fair of you, Mr. Arsic, but I'm afraid from the people who once fought against this American imperialism and hegemony over these smaller Eastern European states you have become their allies today. Bill Clinton was president of the United States at a time when this country was bombed for 78 days, more than 2,500 people died, and more than $100 billion of material damage was done. That's an estimate. They've imposed two sanctions, ruined our economy, made life in Serbia very difficult. In the end, they took Montenegro from us, they took Kosovo and Metohija from us, now they make us recognize Kosovo's independence and who knows what they want with us, including further dispersal of our territory. You supported Hillary Clinton, his wife. In Washington, your president paid $2 million. After that, he came on TV and when Gorislav Papic asked him on the RTS "Eye" show – why did you do it, he said – because I am smart. Don't let us talk like that didn't happen. On the other hand, Tony Blair and Gerhard Schroeder and Alfred Guzenbauer, and Catherine Ashton, all of the testified enemies of Serbia who took part in our bombing, are your advisers and advisors in your government. What are you talking about? What kind of patriotism are you talking about? Tony Blair is coordinating your work in the government and you're paying him out of your budget, giving you a lecture and all of them. Let's tell the beans.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67458	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67459	You've really said a lot of things. Most Serbs are angry about everything that has happened, from some individuals, states, but Aleksandar Vukic and the Republic of Serbia are leading politics in their interest, because the candidate you supported has won. What are the ducks still walking through Belgrade? What else is forcing us to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state? What else makes us give up the Republika Srpska and Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is that over? It's not. So whose picture were you wearing then? Tramp's President of America. His problem, his country, leads her in line with her interests. Have we achieved some interest, or has America realized some of its interests that are contrary to our goals and interests? It's not. No one can love Serbia more than Serbs, forget it, and no one can respect it more than Serbs, and unfortunately no one can do more harm than some Serbs such as Bastic, Dilas, Tadic and the company. More in a material sense, they cannot consider human lives, have done harm to the Republic of Serbia than sanctions and bombing together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67460	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67461	First of all, the basic reason why we defined ourselves to such a move is to invite all Serbs living in America to vote for Trump, yes, and it was crucial that Vladimir Putin supported him and positively expressed himself. That was crucial for us. So, however it has changed or has not changed the situation in the relations between America and Serbia, it is certainly better than being headed by the United States of America, Hillary Clinton, who has his monument today in Pristina and who were worshiped by Kosovo Albanians. Is Trump going to do something that would be spectacular and something that would be drastically different from the history of our relationship, so it's hardly going to come to support that president and that government that paid the money for pre-election purposes of the Hillary Clinton campaign. It's not real to happen. You're talking, Mr. Arsic, about how the Serb people are threatened by both Republika Srpska and Montenegro and so on. It is those who write these laws, who come here to give lectures in the National Assembly, which the National Assembly is listening to and the government that it obeys, who are precisely working on the process of long-term decommissioning in the entire Balkans, in all these countries that we have spoken of. Look what's going on in Montenegro. In Montenegro, except that they made their nation out of Serbs, they want to make their own language out of Serbian, they hate Serbs more than the Ustasha hated them during World War II. Now they've hit the Serbian church. The government of the Republic of Serbia, if it is responsible, and the SNS should take all measures and all steps to prevent this, as it is clear to all today that Montenegro is no longer Serbia's friendly state. It is today the same as the NDH, for a Serb who says he is a Serb, belongs to the SPC and writes in Serbian. (President: I thank Mr. Seselj. Give me 10 more seconds. And that is why the SRS would like from here to invite all Serbian patriots, the Serbian National Corps in Montenegro to come to a big rally in Niksic on December 21st, under the auspices of the Montenegrin-Primoral Mytropolis and to express support for the struggle for the survival of the Serb people in Montenegro, which is unfortunately the need for the survival of our people in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67462	I thank my colleague Seselj. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Serbia's Filipovic, has the word. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67463	Thank you, Chairman. Well, you know what, somebody used to wear the U.S. President, Donald Tramp, so we expect Mark Bastac, Dragan Gilas and others to wear their shirts in the next period. The Serbian Progressive Party and its officials have never worked against their country's interest. They have always been proud to point out their flag and their heroes and their heroes and have always fought to protect Serbia's interest, but not by cheering that some elections in other countries are won by some candidate for president, because we know that each force has its own interests, each force is determined by its own interests and interests and interests of its own country and its people. We are guided by the interests of our country and our people and in this sense both this government and the President of the Republic communicate with everyone and see everyone in the world and sit with everyone to talk. And wherever we see Serbia's interest and where Serbia's interest is to talk. Serbia's interests are not conflicts with anyone, Serbia's interest and we are not guided by the interests of our country and our people, and in this sense both this government and the president of the Republic communicate with everyone and see everyone in the world. He will sit down with everyone to discuss wherever we see Serbia's interest exists, where it is Serbia's interest to talk. Serbia's interests are not conflicts with anyone. Serbia's interest is neither to wear a shirt nor to flag anyone. Serbia's interest is to speak proudly with its head upstairs with everyone in the world and with Trampa and Putin and with the president of China and India, Brazil, any other country in the world. We don't reject anyone, we don't want to fight anyone, we don't want to close the door to anyone. That's why investors come to Serbia from both the west and the east, both from the south and the north. That is why in Serbia we can boast of growth from year to year. That is why international experts say financially it is not impossible for Serbia to reach 7% growth. That's why in Serbia we have new 300,000 jobs in the past six years. That's why we have growth and wages and pensions in Serbia. That is why we have reached an average salary of 500 euros in Serbia. That is why we have come to Serbia to be able to help pensioners once and to raise pensions because we are leading a responsible, stable policy. Because we're partners with strangers from all meridians. Because we don't fight. Because we're responsible for our country. Of course, that doesn't mean that we're less patriots than those who call for these or those doors to be closed, that they don't talk to these or those people, and then they're hypocritically wearing to pin down some of these or those presidential candidates from some other countries. We bear only the only flag of Serbia and the mark of Serbia and will remain that way until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67464	You want your colleague Seselj as an authorised representative of the SRS replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67465	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. We're not ashamed that we wore Donald Trump's T-shirts, and if we did it, in your opinion, that we would agree to someone and we accept it. Again, I think it was a much better move than if we had paid two million euros to someone's foundation for the pre-election campaign, Hillary Clinton, as you did to get in touch. I think wearing T-shirts is better than two million euros for Hillary Clinton. We wore Donald Trump's shirts. Mr Filipovic also wore a G17 Plus T-shirt and a DS T-shirt, and now he's wearing a SNS T-shirt. Why were you wearing those shirts then, Mr. Filipovic? We've never changed the party, and you've turned three parties, especially this party you hit the most, you were once a prominent member of the party. If we're supposed to wear Bastache on shirts, we're not ashamed that we're in a coalition with Mark Bastac in Old Town Municipality and it's no secret. If there's any crime, please nice, investigative authorities to arrest it all, the court to convict and everything else to see who's involved in it, whether it exists, whether it's some radicals or others. I'm afraid that situation would happen like in Požega, maybe, don't forget that. In Požega, advances from the municipality's leadership were arrested, and radicals did not, although the coalition power of the SNS-SRS is in Požega. Radicals weren't arrested. If we are to wear Bastac on T-shirts, then the advancers should wear Nenada Chanka, a coalition partner of the SNS at the level of the town of Novi Sad, whose party has members of the City Council and public enterprises "Vovod" and "markets" under its control. That's your coalition partner. You chose him. You keep it in the New Sad and please don't avoid it and then boast about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67466	The right to replica Serbian MP Filipovic. Here's a colleague of Filipovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67467	Well, this is what it looks like when someone picks up the pot or when Marko Bastac puts a bag on his head and mixes up where he is and what he's saying and where he is. Well, whoever has a head, who doesn't have a head, it's important that we have cheeks and honors, and whoever has cheeks and honors, he doesn't sit with Mark Bastac in power, so he's waiting like that, he's caught himself on that corner of power the last one that hangs out until March, April of the month, so some dinar can still get through Mark Bastac from Old Town. Well, we remember those boards of directors of the famous Gilas, as well, were colleagues with Markovic, boards of directors who also sat down until the last moment of power of Dragan Gilas. Don't just talk about honor and morality. I've never hidden my political commitment. My political commitment is Serbia, is Serbia's interests. Where Serbia's interests are represented, I am here, with Aleksandra Vukic, SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, people who open jobs, people who do not use the bag, as a means of communication with their friends, godfathers or political inexperiences, people who do not take envelopes from investors, people who do not take bribes to raise buildings. You have over 40,000 construction sites in Serbia. How much do you have in Old Town, let's hear it? How many investors and who's been taking their rackets for the past 30 years? Who? Bastache, team bellingar and other thieves, are they? And you're proud of them, okay, every one of us has a face. Let everyone do what he did and what he does. We serve the factory, over 200 factories, over 300,000 jobs, economic growth, public debt reduction, that's what goes to the honour of SNS and Alexander Vukic. You go bags, attempted murder, crime, corruption, mafia. That's what's on your side and on your cheek, you take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67468	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67469	First, it is clear your political commitment to Mr Filipovic. Your political definition and ideology is power and you didn't hide it and I support it perfectly legitimately on your part, quite fine. The Serbian Radical Party is in a coalition in the municipality of Stari Grad. If there is any crime there, if you know anything about it there, and I can see that you know about the attempted murder of both theft and all living, please, the prosecution like your Wolfevic going to report to Vukic, so go report Bastac, there all to arrest, absolutely support it. You in Serbia today in Novi Sad support Nenad Canka, who daily calls for Kosovo's independence, for Vojvodina's independence, speaks of Serbs as a genocide people who committed genocide in Srebrenica and fully agrees with Serbia's bombing and is an open-ended Serbian traitor and separatist. Is that right? Here's what they'll say about your coalition partner, the man sitting right next to you as he calls him. That's your coalition partner. You are with him in a coalition in the town of Novi Sad, his LSV party has members of the city council, as well as a water and market company under its control, where the directors of LSV. In the municipalities of Tutin, Priboj and Prepolje, you are in a coalition with the SDA Sandzak, a party of the Democratic Action of Sandzak, whose President Sulejman Ugljanin, tells Serbia that the fascist state, that Serbs are a genocide people who, apart from genocide in Srebrenica, committed genocide in Sandzak 1,000 years ago, when this war criminal was Stefan Nemanja, called for separatistism in Sandzak and spoke about all the worst about Serbia, characterized Serbia as fascist and the Serb people. They're your coalition partners. Why are you hiding it? You say – jobs are opening, factories are opening, etc. Great, just to open jobs and it's kind of fair and fair for you to participate in it now when jobs are opened, when you could participate all those years and be a member of those parties that those jobs have closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67470	Right to replication, MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67471	It's a rotten old woman's day to go by from morning till nightfall. Congratulations on the glory of St. To the citizens of Serbia who are celebrating and I'm sorry that something nicer they can't hear. They could hear, I'm sure there will be another replica, that a colleague will say what his friends Bastic, Gilas and others are doing in the European Parliament, as they spit on Serbia, as they invite European parliamentarians to intervene in Serbia, as they speak all the worst in their country? Is that patriotism? Is that the measure of patriotism? Is the patriotism measure in how many euros are there in the envelope? It's probably a measure of patriotism. The number of administrations is certainly the measure of patriotism or the price of your cheek. Is the price of your cheek measured in squares or euros? That's what you need to tell the citizens of Serbia. You should also tell the citizens of Serbia, and I will tell you, it is not a problem, it is difficult in censorships in the next elections for you as such, along with Bastac, but there will be jobs for you too. We're working on all citizens of Serbia having jobs. Bastach will have his place of work somewhere in Zabela, Mitrovica, wherever he is. He'll manage that, and I believe you'll figure it out, so you're a young man. The time has come, every man sins in his youth and carries a sin, so do you, but you have no right to deceive the citizens of Serbia. You have no right to lie to them. Serbian citizens have been listening for 20 years about your patriotism, and this patriotism is all about boards, apartments, money, bribery, corruption. Wherever there's power, there's treats, and there's you and you'll be in power all over the place. It's no big deal who it is. You don't mind if it's a patriot, it's not, the separatist, it's not. Whatever he is, just to be in power with him. Even so with “the watchful cities, ” you supported it. While you were on board, “watch out for the cities ” were great. Why didn't you ever judge it here? You could have played in that “watch out for the city. ” More appropriate than being in the congregation. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67472	The word has Alexander Seselj, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67473	First, we didn't even hide it, that we participated in these boards of directors, where the fees were 20,000 dinars, and that's no secret, nor did we deal with crime there. That can be investigated. Mr. Markovic is lying, but it doesn't matter. If there is any crime, please arrest all of it and if the radicals are not at all pardoned. But how is it possible for you honest, fair to you, true lovers, to the best of you, the smartest, I still don't know what the best of the world you are, to lose that same greatest thief, the villain Dragan Gilas, to choose as president of the basketball alliance? It was an advanced candidate for the president of the basketball union. As you took part in the Football Federation, you appointed Mr. Slavisha Koquez, as you took part in the Water polo alliance, you appointed Mr. Zoran Babic, so you set up Mr. Dragan Gilas in the basketball alliance. With this Dragan Gilas, you opened the "Pupin Bridge", Zemun-Borca. This Dragan Gilas was publicly thanking you. If it hadn't been for this Dragan Gilas, that party where you're now a member would never have existed. He needs you to build a monument. He financed the SNS while it was an opposition, while it was in formation and simply helped create. As for the apartments, the only radicals who took those apartments and who got apartments from the state and who had to pay after that were Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic and Dragan Todorovic. These are the apartments you're talking about. If that bothers you and you think it was wrong, please go to Andric's wedding in the presidency, talk to President Vukic and tell him – you know what, you stole those apartments while you were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67474	Right to replication, MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67475	Nice. If the number or quantity of stupidity was estimated here, a colleague would get a dozen, but we're not in a duck school, so unfortunately there's no score here. There are no descriptive estimates. The grades give citizens an election, and I'm afraid you from that parenting election are going to run away. You know what about apartments, we can talk about it. It is known in its own time while the business space was held by Bastic with his gang of mobsters in Old Town, until you couldn't find where 200 apartments and bars disappeared from the Old Town municipality, and you supported it all. Those boards of directors, Gilas, aren't so poor, 10, 20 grand, as you said, were somewhere around 38, 40,000 dinars. And there you have a certain obligation, to take care of the functioning of these public enterprises, to participate in the work, and you said you didn't do anything. Of course, you're not doing anything. You don't even know how to do anything, and it's not that bad either. It's good to admit it in a direct transmission, but I'm sorry that the citizens of Serbia who celebrate the glory, so they need to finance that fame, so they need to work to earn that money, hear that someone for 117,000 salaries is doing nothing, that for 40,000, they're doing nothing, and you're just moaning and talking about the welfare. You know, it's very difficult for a man who's having a hard time living, who's struggling in Serbia, isn't an easy life here. It's growing standard, but it's not easy to hear from politicians saying that 40,000 dinars are nothing, and he hasn't done anything yet. That's what he says about you. You didn't do anything after the election, unfortunately again, and the happiness of the citizens will be nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67476	My colleague Filipovic, I have allowed the exchange of views, the exchange of views, only I ask you to maintain our political stances so that we do not present qualifications. I didn't want to interrupt you, but I'm asking you not to put your qualifications out on each other like that. Here you go, Comrade Seselj. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67477	Please, Mr. Milicevic, being stupid, it's just my problem, and it's not right to be the basic theme of our conversation. On the other hand, I'm so stupid that I'm saying this nonsense, if I were smart, if I were to talk about what you're saying and just be so brilliant, then I'd like to be this stupid with my stupidity for the rest of my life, rather than be as smart as you are. But on the other hand, I may have been wrong to tell you about the compensation for participation in the boards of directors. I'm sure you know it better than I do because you were a member of the DS at the time. I made one big mistake here, and I apologize to you for that. I just lost sight of it. You know, you can't be caught in what stranger you're in anymore. We may be after the next election in the Assembly, maybe we won't. We've never changed our political attitudes and our ideology in 30 years, and we've never done anything to be in power, to put ourselves in a position to be in power, or anything else. We're the only party that's been out of parliament for four years and back. Imagine if it happened to you, how many of you would break up and how many of you former radicals didn't last, and then it went to that party that you belong to today. It's not a problem for you because if your party, don't God, you wouldn't go over the censorship not in these elections, but in any future, it wouldn't be an absolute problem for you because you would change your uniform in the ruling new party, and then attack those advances as if they were the worst in the world and as if you'd never had a relationship with them. That's your method, that's what you're entitled to, and what you think about what I'm saying might be important, maybe not, but at least we're not ashamed of anything and we've never been ashamed of what we've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67478	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 82. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 85th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 88 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67479	Thank you, Vice President. Here's to remind viewers that we have before us a debate on amendments to the Public Procurement Act, an important system law concerning the money of all taxpayers, how it is spent. This law also regulates the provisions of this law, and how it will be carried out. I'm all these amendments before this, I don't want to offend anyone, but I'd like to think a little bit about the amendments we're talking about, about my amendments regarding the revision of the proposed law. I, usually I can be very persistent, to be clear, and even to be rude, when all this is passed, votes and after a few months of applying that law, exactly what we've pointed to from the SPS, with our amendments, is right and there's a problem. So now I've filed in Article 88. The bill, paragraph 5, is amended and reads - the contracting authority is not obliged to publish information from the public procurement plan, which is a business secret within the meaning of the law governing the protection of business secrets or classified information in the sense of the law governing the confidentiality of data. After Article 5, a new position of 6 is added, the estimated value of public procurement cannot be considered as a business secret within the meaning of Article 5(5). What are we saying? So, secret information -- okay, business secret, what's business secret? What's happening to us? We have been talking about the maximum transparency of these laws and its members before when we passed laws. For example, if the estimated value is 100 million dinars, then we get an offer of 99,999... millions of dinars. Malten as a price at the market. That's not one case at all, that's all you want. There's room for other organs. All public procurement is well taken, so you can see what these estimated values were declared as a business secret, so you can see who gave 99.9. Wait, so who whispered to someone what was the estimated value? I hereby advocate that this amendment simply be extremely transparent. There is no reason for the estimated value, for minors to be affected by some offers relative to the estimated value to dinars. It must become a commitment, as I suggest, and we must influence the client's awareness that it better and more carefully determines the value of public procurement. Did the client do market research? Is it an obligation for him to do it? It doesn't say anything. What's happening to us? Come on, it doesn't say, but if there's any confirmation that he did it. What's happening to us? It happens to us, for example, I mean no, it doesn't happen, but I'm a bit of a cartoon now, but for example, someone can put a kilo of peanuts a million dinars and it's so worth it, because that's where someone set it, and that's a secret. Based on what parameters, what kind of research did this data come up with? It doesn't exist anywhere. So the estimated value is a very important thing. This is about transparency. My colleague Arsic, I'm sorry, now he's sitting down to chair, we've been taking turns before about the procurement plans, and about a lot of things, to get these processes as transparent as possible. So now we can talk – yes, but if it is, then someone will make a deal. Well, no, but he only tipped himself off once, and he's ahead of the others. Come on, Minister, I really think you have the authority. I guess I've made myself clear. You, as the minister who sits there, who is authorized in front of the government, have the right to say yes, this amendment is accepted. If there's not enough explanation, I can still explain it to you. You have no reason not to accept such an amendment. I don't know, if you need to consult someone, I don't really know people sitting on your left, I don't know if any of them were involved in writing this law. The answer I received from the Government as an opinion – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the publication of the assessment of the value is intended as a possibility, and we leave to the contracting authorities to decide in any particular situation that the estimated value is justified and necessary to publish. Who are we leaving to make his decision? Guys, let's not play anymore. Do we want to be transparent or do we not want to be transparent? I see Arsic wanting to come down. I would love to, because he had participated in many laws before, in the first year of 2012, and in those subsequent changes and additions, and we had extremely professionally and collegiately sexed and exchanged arguments, even the debate at some point lasted an hour and a half time on the amendment, and I think this is extremely correct on my part. My colleague Martinovic, I'd like you to support one of these amendments... (Alexander Martinovic: I support the government, what to do. I also support the government, but I think those who sit in government and write the laws there, I think they may have made a mistake, so as an MP I have the right, I guess, to say. You know what, it's not a problem, after three months it's gonna be... Here, I've given you the situation. So, right away, the investigative authorities can take all the public procurements where the estimated values were x amounts and where someone backed up for 0.001 dinar. You don't need anything anymore. That's quite clear. And just establish and determine who he was communicating with and what it's for, but for processing? So, with this amendment of mine, that problem won't exist. Minister, may I have your answer, if you have it? Or are you just gonna sit there and not discuss these amendments? If so, then I can go to glory as well as many other MPs who are not here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67480	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67481	I thank you, Chairman. Given that Honorable counterpart Dejan Radenkovic, from a professional point of view, has given an explanation as to why this amendment should be accepted, I will only supplement in one sentence, so as not to exhaust the debate with an additional argument. What my colleague Radenkovic pointed out is the practical application of this law, on the one hand, because in practical application of this amendment, it allows for a full effect, not only of this norm to which the amendment applies, but also of the complete law. If the legislator's intensities are that public procurement has a certain degree of transparency and they do, then this amendment does so. That is why I will support my colleague Radenkovic's amendment and I will ask you to consider adopting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67482	Thank you. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67483	Thank you, Vice President. It's exactly the same situation. And in Article 93, it's exactly the same story. For example, it's only about grooming if, although I think the minister can no longer accept it, because we have passed that procedural part, I see that they are consulting, perhaps even thinking that my amendment is right and good and that this principle of transparency still improves in the competitive documentation, when it's contained in Article 93, I predicted that the same thing, of course, after saying, "the data on the subject of the procurement", they add the words: "the estimated value of public procurement", total and for each party in particular. I don't want to bother my colleagues and colleagues right now. I can repeat everything I've said now, but I think it's quite clear. If we want that principle of transparency to be fully expressed, I think this is extremely logical for you to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67484	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67485	Don't make it look like I didn't answer. Here, the position of the Department of Public Procurement and the Ministry of Finance is first to know that the estimated value can be published, and it doesn't have to be. So transparency can exist, and that depends on who conducts the public procurement. It's up to him to assess whether he's going to protect that information or not. You leave immediately from the assumption that all those who hide the information, do some abuse and break the law. Now, appeal to them to find out, they can find out, but they also have a reason to hide the price. So you're not quite right. As you just said, there's an impression, the public can get the impression that it's always a hidden value, and now it's misleading every time someone has to participate in public procurement. It's just that the possibility is given here, so whoever conducts public procurement and wants to get something can say that the estimated value is that, or for a valid reason, to protect itself and not tell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67486	Right on line, MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67487	Thank you, Minister, for joining the discussion. I've been very clear in my amendment proposal. The amendment makes clear what business secrets are and what they are in terms of the confidentiality law. So, it's just a matter of preventing and, well, allowing space for them to declare the estimated purchase as a business secret. I see that it may be pointless to keep on talking, because obviously I don't come across a misunderstanding and we turn around right now and we're going to replace the thesis, that now what I've stated, I've accused many of them of doing this or that. No, I guess we have to make the laws, narrow down the space for that kind of thing not to come. That is why the first amendment was accepted, right in the negotiation process. That's how it was -- let's liberalize, and who should we liberalize, whom should we let him decide for himself whether or not to conduct the negotiation process? No, I don't. The amendment has just been accepted to go back to having someone give consent. Because we know that during one period there was an ihahaj of negotiating procedures over the course of one year. When I say that, I'm probably someone from my party, too, maybe, because it was the right thing to do with that law back then, but I was against it. So I'll always be against it. Because this is about the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking you to think that way, so it doesn't take a few months to change and supplement this law, so we can correct it a little bit, one way or another. Thank you very much. I won't take any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67488	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67489	Thank you. Who could have imagined last year? I would support these estimated values, but I don't know what that didn't apply, say, in Indjia in 2006, when I was being replaced by an estimated value in the Water Management building. So, Mr. Martinovic remembers, and he cuts off the princes and someone decides that the president of the Assembly, who insists on too much public data, should be cut in style by princes. Well, since there's been a bit of quorum, then they've gone well into the water management building and so on, they've done a small municipal coup, not to mention, a coup, cleaned up the president of the Parliament, president of the highest authority. And why is that? Because the president of the assembly dared to build a construction zone in the previous period and when he had already put all this municipal equipment in place, then someone remembered that he could take from the cooperative agricultural land on the basis of a party interest and pay 23 dinars per metre square, and then resell it for 20 euros. It was socially responsible, an estimated value of 23 dinars, and then you go out and sell it to Henkel and so on, sell it for 20 euros. And, look at the wonders, where you took it from, of course, transparently, it's your lady or friend, your member, then you take it well, you resell it, and then it doesn't match the president of the assembly who got a little rebelling, then you cut it up and you make it work that way and that's how it works. Now, if that hadn't happened, I'd be thinking about supporting some previous amendments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on my chest there can only be a picture of my godfather, no one else. So, what a Trump, what a copper, I'd just put a picture of my godfather on my chest. This is how he defended himself from public procurement planned by Boskić Ljotic Žutić. These are the public procurements, ministers, planned for the camp, for migrants and political insatiables. I think in that camp, the media will deal with what was called "ahtung, ahtung! “ those speakers, those microphones, speakers, etc.? E, that this will do "N1" television, that flyers will distribute that "NIN", "Time", etc., that due to the gas shortage of public procurement they will conduct Bastac. Do you understand? That it will be a waterproof bag, means that he will call a tender for the Bosko Ljotic camp, Janko Veseinovic. Who's going to be camp manager, I don't know, but I'm afraid public procurement for plastic bags will be carried out by Marko Bastac and there might be, and Juca Rukavina to finish it, that fool. They've got a lunatic, and that was a fool, and this is where the camp manager's gonna be a lunatic. So, we should all publicly condemn, it looks a little funny, I'm a bit of a cartoon, I apologize, we all need to publicly condemn an attempt on the day of the migrants Bosko Ljotic to build a camp for the Syrians, Iraqis, Libyans, the same Iraqis that the Americans destroyed and the Syrians that the Americans destroyed in the NATO Pact. The same countries where we used to make wages as economic migration, make money, make houses here, buy cars, take care of families by working in Iraq, Libya, and Syria. So, on this side, you have to be extremely careful and this country that, due to war circumstances, has had a migration outwards, where it has been fleeing from war, from the NATO Pact, etc., if we ourselves were migrants, then we have to be extremely careful on the day of the migrants. I think that Bosko Ljotic, who is an ally of DS, all these yellow options and all the yellow factions, I don't think that Bosko Ljotic is only doing this for migrants, that it will be a camp for political opponents. That's what the reporter announced. There, we will probably be tortured and pulled out of our eyes by the charms, as it was, that it would be a special cult for us, that they would rape there, hang, shoot, fire, so, Mr. Martinovic, that there would be a cut-off part by piece. I think Gjorge Vukadinovic will recommend in which square we should be hanged, not to be on one of the main ones, like the Terrace, that we should be hanged on some corners. I ask that we strongly condemn such an effort, that the country of Serbia is fenced, isolated and built in it by Boskic's camp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67490	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67491	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present some information with which, I suppose, the promoter of this amendment will agree, given his explanation that we just heard, which is certainly not the support of Bosko Obradovic and his idea of public procurement, but precisely the support of this bill. Although we return to the positive effects expected from the application of this law, we will see that these provisions of the law will aim at increasing transparency and flexibility of public procurement procedures, reducing administrative burdens by using electronic means and by proving the criteria for selecting an economic operator. In particular, participation costs will be reduced in public procurement procedures for small and medium-sized enterprises which may not have adequate administrative or professional capacities. Therefore, with a simpler procedure, there will be greater interest in small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement procedures, which will raise the level of competition and raise the number of bids in these procedures. All of this will make public spending more rational. These are all the facts that contribute to the adoption of this bill. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Business has a series of measures relating to support for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the middle of the year, for example, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development provided 17m euros in assistance to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. Furthermore, in small and medium-sized enterprises, there may be a million people. In 2016 it was the data of 800,000 employees in more than 350,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition to advisory programmes and programmes for their completion, there are also permanent public calls from the government of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy for the allocation of funds. It is this proposal we are talking about today that will complete this support and fight for the survival and business of small and medium-sized enterprises. For that reason, I think you should support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67492	Thank you. On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67493	You're very nervous, gentlemen of power, all day long since we've been talking about the Public Procurement Act, you're obviously aware of how much they're missing in the application of this existing law, and how many are going to be in the application of this law that you're about to adopt in a few days. You have allowed, indeed, incredible insults by the MPs of power towards the opposition MPs. It's been a while since there's been such a conversation in the National Assembly, but, well, you can, you can do it any way you want. But here is no Serbian Filipovic, I simply wanted to address his high-intellectual face as he called the MPs here. The fact that such a face, God gave him, is a stupid man by nature, God gave him, and I'm not mocking him. But if he were here, I would read him a statement from the DS, in its own time, which he says – Serbia's Filipovic candidate for the council of the municipality of Stari Grad from the G17+ list joined the Democratic Party today...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67494	Comrade Radeta, would you explain to me what this has to do with Article 105? (Faith Radeta: Great, great.) This is about publishing the transparency of public procurement, but... Turn on my mic. Ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67495	It all has to do with me. I guess now that Serbia's Filipovic is no longer a national MP he may beg another party to put him somewhere to be in charge of public procurement. Now I'm asking who could trust a man like that? So, I read a statement from the Democratic Party, where they inform that he has moved from G17 to them and to say -- I will help as much as it is in my power, that Belgrade will get the mayor who will bring Belgrade closer to European values and so on. Imagine, he didn't mean Zoran Radojicic, so ask yourself who he meant. Otherwise, Serbia's Filipovic, in the general public, is known for something else, is known for his dubious degree, and he dares to talk about any topic at all. He can, colleague Arsic, with a questionable degree, come, God forbid, in a situation where he manages public procurement. That's why this, and how it has to do with what I'm saying, exactly, otherwise, he wouldn't be interesting. But it is known that whoever asks him on social networks – Srbo, what university did you graduate from? He's blocking the man. It's not on the subject. Don't give me God, talk to me. Otherwise, this article 105, which speaks of the publication of transparency, should certainly be seriously redecorated and you lack transparency in this law and we do not understand why you do not accept the amendments of your coalition partner. Dejan Radenkovic is a Master of Economy and has really explained his amendments very carefully and makes very sense everything he has said. And then as he spoke, I watched, too bad some MPs didn't zoom in on the cameras, I won't look at anyone, and I won't look at anyone, I'm stressing, I'm saying the Master of Economy, Dejan Radenkovic, how they laughed at some who knew where they ended up, if they ended up, mostly, with questionable diplomas and laughing, but in such a way that they show what any MP in relation to the minister could know. So, amazingly, the MPs who apparently see the minister as a deity, I don't know if you, Mr. Djordjevic, are looking at you in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67496	Very interesting explanation of the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted the 105th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Master of Economic Sciences Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67497	There's no need for titles here. We're all MPs here. We're all equal. I have submitted an amendment to Article 119. Of course, another one of those which is not accepted by reason - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the grounds for suspending the procedure are laid down in Article 147. The draft law, but the provision of Article 119(6) does not provide for a new basis for suspending the procedure. I'm here to clean up the hygiene and to sort out members of this law. And fellow Martinovic has submitted an amendment that has been accepted and we are here somewhere. He has greatly improved and changed the situation as proposed in the law. So the promoter realized that it wasn't very defined and that there was room for doubt. One, they can't be led astray that they can think about suspending the procedure if they have a first rank, and the second-ranked one doesn't like it, it tastes like someone out there on the commission. It's written in one place, and they say it nicely in their reasoning in article 140 of the law. It is clearly defined in Article 140 when it comes to suspending the procedure. If it stays this way, even with this amendment by my colleague Martinovic, who defines... I've got it somewhere. Explains the situation a little closer than suggested, then it needs to be in every place where it's proposed. So, in every part of the law. For example, specifically, here, in 114 we can do it again. Why wasn't it put there? So it's put into this article for no reason, and it has the basis for the criteria and the choice of the economic operator. So he's looking for a reference if he doesn't prove that it's being added, as well as in this article. I think this is more correct and precise, because it is said – or to suspend the procurement process if there is a reason for the suspension. Clean clarification, one cosmetic grooming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67498	Thank you. On Article 123 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, young fellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67499	Thank you, dear Mr. Arsic. Like today we talked about before noon, so the huge money that's being spent on building so-called. The Moravia Corridor, which is suspected of being overpaid for double, and the Chinese offer was for the construction of the highway of about 500m euros, we see that there will be more than 900m euros with all the costs and how much it is planned and how much it is left to cost in the end. We haven't heard yet if you're aware, is there any thought at all about repairing and establishing a new road infrastructure in Zajecarska and Borski County? So, municipalities from Zajecarsko and Borsko district as if they were cut off from the world, as regards the length of the journey by car i.e. by motor vehicle in these directions, and Majdanpek, and Negotin, and Kladovo, and Zajcar, and Bolec and all. So, in an infrastructure sense, in terms of travel infrastructure, this is Serbia's appendix. Could it have been more rational to make an agreement with the Chinese company cheaper, and to re-evaluate these two districts in order to have at least an indication of even development because we didn't see any plans, so there is something in the perspective that could improve the travel infrastructure in these two districts, and we see that huge money is given to Bechtel all because of the pressure of the US Embassy and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who is a witness to the essence of US interests in the Serbian government?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67500	Thank you. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67501	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issue of corruption and public procurement is a very serious state issue. Today, I experienced that some MPs laugh when public procurement and criminality are mentioned in public procurement. Fellow MPs, one question has been raised since you came to power. Why did you inherit the behaviour of the Agency for Privatisation and Labour of the State Auditor and other internal auditors? How is it possible for auditors at the same time to audit their wife’s firm? Tens of millions of dinars are blowing up invoices on the audit. When we talk about corruption, about public enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that a chairman of the board of directors has two and a half million annual expenses in a pub? Now you see how they behaved and how they treat state property. Public procurement is one time five. I draw attention to how it's possible that none of the Privatisation Agency were convicted? How is it possible that you have a crime in one factory that moves hundreds of millions of dinars and no one at all? I heard today that some colleagues mentioned that they were all processed when I talked about certain irregularities and crime, especially in agriculture. The farmer, Mr. Risticevic, as a national MP, said that state parcels and state agricultural land were formally in the cataster on the map, only he didn't answer me and I was asking him if he knows about how many thousands of hectares or hundreds of thousands of hectares they rented and at what cost and whether they paid or didn't pay? If they haven't paid, what's the amount and what's the state going to take over? Here, in one municipality of a religious community 300 hectares of agricultural land were returned. The president of the municipality formed the Land Return Commission. The Commission shall return that land, not appeal to the President of the Municipality for a solution whether or not it has been established. It is past the deadline, there is no appeal and the same president concludes a lease contract and leases 300 hectares of agricultural land. That's what we need to talk about. Public procurement is a crime of deep roots.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67502	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Land Administration on the site has marked all the parcels of state property, not only marked, but you can easily check and see who rented them, therefore, whether they were leased and so on. As far as paying the rent is concerned, the change in the Law on Agricultural Land pays the rent in advance. So, if you want to rent agricultural land, you have to pay that rent after the procedure being conducted in the municipality before the contract is concluded, so when the municipal commission makes decisions on who was the most favourable tenant. They're going to the Land Administration. The Land Administration shall conclude a contract on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, but the contract will not close until proof of the lease is attached for the next wartime year. One more thing. Except for the paid rent, for another year it is necessary to attach a guarantee, that is, today in the lease of agricultural land the state has been provided in a certain way for two years. So one year's rent is paid in advance and one year's guarantee from above is still in place. So it's kind of a two-year lease. If the tenant does not pay in some way abuse the lease of agricultural land, the guarantee and the second year is activated, so the state must be charging for it. Are there any abuses? Probably there are, but they are minimal and every abuse that anyone knows happened, unless the Land Administration delivers data to the Agriculture Committee, and we will solve this problem with the Minister of Agriculture. So, any abuse that occurred in the process of renting land or, God forbid, usurpation, if anyone knows of such a kind of abuse, should provide us with that information and we will immediately respond to that kind of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67504	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with Mr. Risticevic what is in the law. And I ask Mr. Rističević – is that how the law is implemented in practice? Secondly, Mr. Risticevic, you are not an organ of prosecution. The persecution authorities here, and above all, the Agriculture Land Administration is only now, when Serbian radicals raised the issue of issuing state-owned agricultural land? Five days ago. Mr. Vice President, the Agriculture Land Directorate says - a record lease of state land and oran, only when we have raised the question and we ask that question ten times here and they say, here, for example, of all 145 municipalities, it is not yet in the first round of competitions for 49. What about 49? And they say that, for example, Nova Varosh has the largest leased area increase in this year, 278 hectares, which is 3.5 times the last year. And I'm asking, back in 2005 until today, is this property issued or used without any contract, anything? U usurpation of state land, how do you practice it? By regulating state land leases under the new Law if someone usurped the land, the state has the right to bring down the fruits. Now what do you do in practice? One trailer goes to the state silo, but two go to private. And there's the problem now. It's a serious matter when it comes to renting state agricultural land. I guarantee you that I would now arrest a hundred presidents of the Commission for issuing state agricultural land from 2005 to today, because I would determine the crime of the deep roots and, above all, put billions into the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67506	The right to replica has Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can agree with the abuses that started not in 2005, I think the agricultural land began to be issued around 2006, 2007. Until then, it wasn't possible, and the combined land was processed for free. They didn't pay the rent, but the land was added after privatisation to those tycoons who bought the combineds and who, apart from the social country, tried to take over the state country. It is only since 2006, 2007 that the lease is allowed. The law has been changed several times. I agree there have been abuses, but we should not be attributed to abuses since 2005. The law barely changed in force seems to me in 2013, and here we had demonstrations of alleged pairs, led by Nenad Canak, Saša Radulović, Bojan Pajtic. They probably wanted that abuse to continue. If someone usurps agricultural land, municipalities and local self - administrations are authorized to harvest fruit. Do certain abuses occur when depletion occurs? I want to believe he's not coming. And if there are such phenomena, I also ask that the nearest internal affairs body be informed that such a phenomenon is suppressed. This government, i.e. this government, these political parties have passed this regulation that is a newspaper, that if there is usurpation, that because, by law, some agricultural land is in state property, its fruits are removed, or that it is charged with a triple rent over a parcel that it has abused on an annual basis. So it wasn't before. I believe the abuses were numerous, I believe there are still some, but each one of you can report it. We'll react immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67508	Right on line, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree with Mr. Risticevic, if we look at this matter from the aspect of the law, Mr. Risticevic is right that the law is prescribed by both the first and second way that state land should be available. Since 2005, however, I have had the opportunity to ask a number of parliamentary questions and only for Pančevo 2006, 2007 and 2008, that tycoons took two, three thousand hectares of land to rent, but did not pay. Secondly, to believe these claims Mr. Risticevic makes, let's do a review and a skill. We'll figure out how many countries there are agricultural land, because ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Vice President, six months ago I asked a parliamentary question, I'm not given an answer. No answer is given, because it is impossible to give the correct answer, because crime will appear. Since 2005 and here, especially until 2012, it's been a thief never seen. They didn't pay a rent, they didn't pay a tight interest either, but therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radicals, in which Mr Martinovic was at the time, we asked in 2006 or 2007 for individual agricultural producers to have the right to cross the lease, and we acted and the National Assembly brought the right to cut off purchases by individual agricultural producers. And now it should be possible for individual farmers to give at least 20 or 30 hectares to individual agricultural producers who want to process land and want their children to deal with agriculture and stay in the country. Therefore, I agree again with Mr. Risticevic, but Risticevic looks only formally at what the law says. Now let's ask another question - how is this law implemented? Who controls that law? Who oversees issuing state agricultural land? Are the criminals in the ranks of the ministry and in the administration that are obliged, above all, to supervise and inform the government and to inform the National Assembly and to see that the thief is being reduced?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67510	Thank you. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by 2014, 2015, the usurpation was so much that it was usurped somewhere up to 80,000 hectares. There are municipalities that didn't even deliver plans, so they didn't bring in a program based on which to rent. We changed the lease. The municipalities that do not do so may be sanctioned by the Republic foreclosure of transfers. So we also raised the seriousness of the municipalities themselves that they had to bring in the program, that they had to conduct bids, etc. or, if they don't, they bear appropriate sanctions. The usurpations that have been going on lately are being charged. They happen, but they are very minimal compared to 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. They're minimal and move in the worst case of up to 2,000 acres. Certain usurpations are charged in Panchev himself according to the data available to the Land Administration and will, as soon as the time of work of the Administration, be taken out and delivered to the People's Parliament to know exactly who is the right usurpation on the territory of the municipality of Panchevo, i.e. how it is sanctioned. Recently, there was a sanctioned usurper at 80 acres in The Tower by stripping his land. In the last two years, two million euros have been charged from the usurper because, past the rules and laws, they entered the agricultural land in the state property. If there are ideas that the Agricultural Land Act should be improved, for the sake of even more transparent land management in the state property, I am also at the disposal of the Committee on Agriculture of the People's Parliament, to come to the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, it proposes some change which we will continue to follow with the decision of the Committee, if that right is valid, if there is such a kind of problem. We will forward this to the ministry and ask them to write a proposal to amend and supplement the law or we will do so ourselves in the National Assembly that the maximum release procedure in the lease of agricultural land is transparent and that the charge is 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67512	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted the amendment to Article 127. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 151 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67513	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I made a little mistake with the previous amendment, I apologize. Maybe some of them looked at me strangely who followed me. The amendment of fellow Martinovic in Article 151(2) was accepted in the formulation – if only one acceptable offer is submitted, it is replaced by the words – if only one offer is submitted, the point, which is acceptable. My colleague Martinovic is a lawyer and I would ask him to help me define this so that there are no dilemmas. I suggested that there be, then, a change and it is said – if only one bid was submitted in the public procurement process. If there is one acceptable offer, then there is room to apply, because everyone has a right to protection. I say, this is an improvement, which this amendment has been accepted, from what is proposed in Article 151 but I don't think it can be an unacceptable offer because the decision to award a contract cannot make a decision unless it is an acceptable offer and that is why the formulation of this is clear. If we leave an acceptable offer, then we leave it free to someone where there are more offers he says – the only one acceptable. I think the formulation is... Again, my formulation – if only one bid has been made in the public procurement process. Where an offer has been submitted, it is logical, if the decision to award the contract, to award only an acceptable tender. There can be no decision that is unacceptable, so there's just a game of words, not to make a mistake, because if there's more offers, then the procedure with the decision of an acceptable offer continues. I'd rather have the Minister and Arsic listen to me, but, well, everyone has a choice, because here we're talking about serious things. I point out that this is a system law, and it's very important to have these little things that someone has to interpret or solve every time we get into trouble. I think it makes more sense that somehow... I don't know what form it is if this one would be accepted. I'm not really a visper, but my colleague Martinovic knows it better than I do. I think it would be more logical, since the bill – if only one acceptable offer was submitted, the formulation of the accepted amendment is, I hope that people understand me, if only one offer is submitted, and the decimal, which is acceptable. So we leave room for more offers and someone to say – this is accepted, this is not accepted. So here it's logical that the offer, by the decision to award the contract, is acceptable and if one is, means we have no reason to leave room for dilemmas with the client. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67514	Thank you. On Article 151 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 151 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 163 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67515	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our citizens are well known, but it's not burning to say one more time. It's not just about public procurement for highways in Serbia. You have fast roads, or fast traffic, which the President of the Republic announced. It's something special to say hello to. So that eliminates the pockets created by building highways. In a certain way, a population that does not live near, along the highways, is brought into a more equal, almost equal position with those who live by the highway. This, of course, brings investment and investors closer to such environments, so several should be mentioned. I think it's worth a public procurement that will connect the loop of fire with Kladov, including all the settlements. I think it's worth saying hello to a fast traffic station that runs from Kragujevac, Mrčaevci, the Ships Airport. I think it's worth commending the public procurement that will connect Paracino with Bora and Zajcara. I think it's worth saying hello to the traffic station, fast traffic to Loznica. I think it's about the public procurement that's going to be towards Coola. I think it's worth welcoming the construction of a traffic station between Belgrade and Zrenjanin. I think it's worth welcoming all these future public procurements, but it's worth saying that we've earned it as a society. It wasn't just the government that earned it. The government has only raised and managed the state, and all residents living in the Republic of Serbia have contributed to the growth of GDP in this country, to keep our currency stable, to keep inflation under control, which can result in these fast traffic routes, highways being made out of the budget and thus raising Serbia. More valuable than ruling Serbia, to remember those former, more valuable than ruling Serbia is the rise of Serbia, and this government is doing just that. So what the most valuable government has persistently done is raises the state of Serbia and thus enables the quality of its citizens' lives to be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67516	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Stevanović, Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojević and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted together to Article 178 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 180 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67517	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was talking about those Bastace's public procurements through which he got those bags, and now I'm only interested in these purchases to get Gilas to answer me, since Gilas was the head of all these public procurements, and probably now he's planning to be head of all future procurements, all advertising seconds, all the media, etc. to be the boss of life and death in the Republic of Serbia, but mainly to build highways towards his pockets and pockets of his close associates. I wonder if those Bastache bags are decomposable? Mr. Arsic, can you get me information on whether those Bastache bags were obtained through public procurement? Were they obtained on those black bags that he used to draw on his godmothers' neck? Were they biodegradable or whatever it's called? Were they endangering the environment after use, the one that puts the godfather's bag on his head, and the bag accidentally rips up, so in that ignorant handshake, if that bag has to be rejected afterwards, was it a danger to the environment or not? I believe they didn't take care of that either. As far as environmental pollution is concerned, in the Republic of Serbia the largest environmental polluting environment, the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are an alliance of thieves, frauds and frauds, who calls himself the Alliance for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67518	Thank you. On Article 181 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 184 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67519	Thank you. The amendment to the SRS in Article 184(1) is amended and reads as follows: ‘The Ministry responsible for the functioning of the electronic administration system shall establish a public procurement portal and provide technical conditions for its application’. As we know, the electronics administration is in charge of the Ministry of State and local self-government. However, the legislator prescribes the organisation and work of the Public Procurement Office as a special organisation, and in particular the function of managing the public procurement portal, although this portal is already in the jurisdiction of the Public Procurement Authority, which operates according to the rules on state administration. It remains unclear, but first of all unnecessary, why start a new public procurement office now? Because this is what EU directives require. I think we must all agree in this House that the public procurement system must be determined exclusively in accordance with the criteria in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, some European thresholds are being introduced into the law. We question our own sovereignty. It's coming out of the economic frameworks and it's getting into far more important issues. What are these economic thresholds? What Europe? The ones in the Union or the ones who will never enter that union? Such a bill with such formulations can be defended and justified by some alignment with EU laws and standards. However, in light of the clear facts, there is nothing since Serbia's entry into the EU, so that defence is also void. The Serbian Radical Party, in its political work since the first day, has made inconclusive arguments that we do not need this EU and that it can only bring us a new form of occupation. The question arises why now that it is clear to the biggest advocates that since joining the EU there is nothing, we still have laws on the agenda that favour the standards of this Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67520	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 191 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67521	Giving serious big jobs without a tender is the manner of your authority and it is not – them, but really. Now we will remind you of another big job you have awarded without a tender, which is 185 ha of land in Belgrade, in "Belgrade on Water". You've never given an explanation how it's possible that by direct contract without a tender so much land you've assigned to someone you've agreed with, you can't even call yourself an offerer. Not to be again – you are against this or that, to be clear, the SRS is for the realization of the project "Belgrade on Water" because it is our project. That's what Vukic promoted as a candidate for mayor of Belgrade on behalf of the SRS, but we thought and now we think this job couldn't be assigned under the grains. The question is that a tender was called whether some investors, a group of investors from Serbia who would build this same thing or someone from abroad who would really come with real money, because you know well that the Arabs involved in this business are the least of their money. You are well aware of what the contract accepts to be the cost of the city of Belgrade, of cleaning up, of infrastructure, etc. We never got an answer to the question – why did it have to be done like that? That is why you are bothered by the amendments of Dejan Radenkovic, because if some of his amendments were accepted or some amendments to the SRS, then such jobs would not be possible, then everything would be clear, visible, then if there were pre-accounts, budgets and then nothing like that – we have, and unfortunately, things like this happening to us and always at the expense of the state budget, at the expense of the funds that all Serbian citizens put into the budget. We're not the ones who say it's the people's money, because the moment you, me or anyone else pay taxes or contributions, it's no longer my money, it's the money of the state budget, and you've been given by the people the power to manage the attention of a good host. You don't do it, and that's why you give big jobs without a tender.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67522	Thank you. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 193. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67523	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, article 193 contains provisions in which payment classes are mentioned. In my amendment, I asked that this member of the law be deleted because it is pointless to mention something whose law does not exist. The Serbian Radical Party has persistently insisted that a payment-class law be passed. The law has not been passed and the question is when it will be passed and whether it will be passed at all and for this reason there should be no specifics in the law that are not regulated by law. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, the law is one of the perhaps most significant laws this Assembly is making, for the most part of the budget that all Serbian citizens are earning is going through these public procurements. We also talked about high-value public procurement here and, of course, there is a greater possibility of abuse in public procurement. However, no one mentioned the public procurement of small value, where there is also a problem, but a problem of another kind. In small companies, municipalities, schools, etc., where there is a need for small-value public procurement, the administration is so massive, so complex, that literally many projects, many things can't be realised for reasons why this law can't be passed, which these things can't be realized because they depend on local self-government and all that. Therefore, the government should consider, when it comes to low-value public procurement, that many things are simplified, so that work is done more efficiently and for the benefit of all citizens and collectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67524	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 197. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67525	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we provincials, as many call us, we sandwichers, we from the interior, who are always patriotically fond of our country, we like our capital to look nice. We especially love it when we cross bridges, especially we like not to see the mockery, rats, snakes and various semi-destructed warehouses, abandoned wagons, etc., what we watched until 2014 and 2015. It is true that there was no public procurement, Mr. Martinovic. But that's what we've come to terms with here in the Assembly. About Belgrade on the water, on an interstate agreement, the National Assembly has declared itself. As I recall, you're a lawyer and there's no more transparency in the public than when you come to the Assembly with a proposal to say -- here we're going to build a small town, Belgrade will look even nicer, it's going to look like this, that's what's been presented to all the media and, behold, Dragan Gilas has risen and said, it doesn't matter whose idea it was. It's important, thank you to the one whose idea it was. But Dragan Djilas once supported it, even Balsa Bozovic. The wife or better half of Balša Bozovica participates in the sale of apartments in Belgrade on water, and he ran a real campaign here, Balsa Bozovic, against Belgrade on water. I guess he had a fight with a girl, or a girl left him, I don't know why. We who come to Belgrade still like our capital to look good, nice, whatever we don't live here. Our wish is that we too, and these highways and investments make it possible, by the quality of life we do not lag behind much for the Belgraders. We want even in agricultural regions, and even villages, to be decent roads, decent telecommunications, decent life, that the population does not move to Belgrade, that Belgrade does not grow in numbers, but that it grows in appearance, that it grows in the quality of its citizens' lives, that it has modern stadiums, because we do not have any stadium qualified for UEFA and FIFA championships. So soon Partizan, Star and team won't be able to play in our country unless those stadiums are built. We wish we could have a stadium of 50,000 viewers, but, let's say, in India it's inconclusive. It's normal to be near our capital, on the periphery. It's normal to have stadiums, because that construction also raises gross domestic product, raises the consumption of concrete, cement, arms, etc. In a certain way, through this kind of public investment, GDP rises, construction workers improve their technologies, live better, etc. They'll probably have bigger salaries, which I want money to be distributed as much towards the workforce as possible and less towards the capital. But without capital, there are no jobs, so there is also work to be respected, to respect capital and to find a certain proportion, which is what this government is trying to do by raising the minimum labour price. We dreamt that one day there would be a thousand marks in Serbia. The salary in Serbia with a thousand marks, turn it into Bosnian marks, they are equivalent to the value of sometimes German marks, and since the new year, the average salary in Serbia will be a thousand marks, and the minimum will be 500 marks. It is our desire to earn it, that pensions and wages and profits will be from the growth of GDP, that we have as many buildings as possible, such as Belgrade on water. And it's a wish, I mean, not just the authorities, not just the opposition, it's the wish of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67526	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović to Article 203. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 214 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 225. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considered the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 225 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jojić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When it comes to public procurement, auditors should not be left out. The question is - how is it possible, if an auditor determines crime, dozens and dozens of millions of dinars, or hundreds of millions of dinars, and that a public, or state auditor submits a criminal report, and for such a crime because of the abuse of the official position and abuse of the responsible person is prescribed a sentence of up to 12 years, ladies and gentlemen? I would remind you that in the public procurement of Democrats in Pančev in 2006 and 2007 they did: they paved the street to the length of 108 meters, but 90 million dinars were paid from the budget and only seven meters wide. What was the corruption of the ladies and gentlemen of the SNS? You know very well. Remember "Vojvodine Development Bank", the mayor of the then town of Pancheva took 600 million dinars from the city's budget and invested in the deposit "Vojvodine Development Bank". Whether these funds are intended and addressed to the address and for what purposes they have been used and whether the deposit, where the Democrats have ordered all municipalities and cities in Vojvodina to put 30% of their budget into a deposit of "Vojvodine Development Bank" where it was actually organised crime and grand theft. Does anyone answer that, ladies and gentlemen? I don't think so. Public procurement is a serious matter. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the SNS, that you agree that public procurement must have another treatment, that they must have priorities, that competent services must do their job, that inspectors of the competent resolutions, if they do not do their job, have to be cleared and prosecuted if they conceal the crime that costs this country billions and billions, and therefore our pensioners and disabled people have from 15,000 to 35,000 pensions, etc. That's where we're supposed to take care of the thieves behind the lock, in the jule garden, so they can be there for a while, and see how it works. You will have good authority, and you will have good men, and the people will support you. Now, if you keep your mouth shut and don't do your job, or institutions, it's a waste of what laws are passed. I said, numerous laws and sublegal acts serve someone as a toilet paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67528	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 228. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 231aman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 233 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67529	Article 233 is to be deleted, it speaks of the cancellation of the public procurement contract and of the fact that the Republic Commission may annul these contracts, which is absolutely legally unacceptable. If the contract, which is, the will of two or more parties is signed on both sides, no one can cancel the third or fifth of the contract, but the competent court in a given, appropriate court procedure. This is also something that you actually put public procurement into some special treatment, that you can behave in public procurement any way you want. Today you're gonna close the deal, tomorrow you're gonna break it up, and when we tell you to break up the Brussels agreements, then you say you can't because you're the responsible state, so you don't want to break up something that someone once concluded before you do. When we mention a contract with the Fiat, then you say there's nothing you can do about it because it's not your contract. So, you act and answer in public questions the way it suits you, without principle, without legal basis, without serious laws. So no commission can cancel public procurement contracts if these contracts are concluded by will, no one has forced anyone. So, we can't, unfortunately, the commission can't break the contract with Bechtel, but if the contract is found in court, then the court will probably find that it's a void contract, or that it's a harmful contract, and that it will undo it because the contract has caused great damage to the republican budget and to the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67530	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 234. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 235 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 237 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 241 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 247 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Annex 4. Part 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Radenkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67531	Thank you. It's not a bad thing to put this on the attachment, so you stay for the end, I think. I'm just kidding a little bit, of course. It's about the Article 75 I was talking about, but well, we'll see how all this is going to happen, because simply if you leave room for these services like FTO, physical security, legal, health, food for the socially endangered, for kindergartens, simply if you leave without simply providing the right to protect your rights, I don't think that's good. But that's what we decided today. I would just like to say at the very end that we all know how much it is, I have no reason to say that since 2012, how much public procurement reforms have been part of this parliamentary majority policy and how much energy is devoted to improving this area and this complex process. So, the SPS, and I'm particularly glad that we're going to have this advanced version of the law, and we have to admit and we know how much our partners have had the big credit for improving the public procurement system, but also that this, as I tried to do this time through the amendment proposals, to fix this law in some way. I'm sorry they didn't become part of the registrant, precisely because we think they're good and they're right. This amendment of lawmaking is extremely important and I think it's clear to everyone, but well, there was no space, so I'll see you around. At the very end, just to say what I said and in principle, that the SPS, as a socially responsible party, believes that this Bill on Public Procurement has the potential to improve the public procurement system, above all in terms of creation, a more efficient system that will enable the achievement of the basic objectives of public procurement, which is that the client gets so-called. value for money. I thank you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and thank you for a very constructive debate that could be heard today in parliament. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-19-0.u67532	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you very much.
