ParlaMint-RS_2019-01-28-0.u51555	Dear Members of the government, the Honorable Mayor of Belgrade, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. This special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, His Excellency Mr Borut Pahor. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, His Excellency, Mr. Borut Pahor. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia who attend today's special session. I now ask the President of the Republic of Slovenia, His Excellency Mr. Borut Pahor to speak to us. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-01-28-0.u51556	Dear Madam President, the honourable MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Excellency, dear friends, 10 years ago in 2009, after long-standing relations between Slovenia and Serbia, I was as the first Slovenian Prime Minister to make an official visit to Belgrade, Serbia, and then received by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and the president of the state, Boris Tadic. With this visit and the 2009 talks, we opened a new chapter in relations between the two countries and the two nations. Although before and after that, our relations burdened a different relationship with the Kosovo issue, from then on, we have managed to turn all other challenges in favour of our interests. Five years ago, in 2014, as the first president of the Republic of Slovenia, I officially visited Serbia. My host at the time was President Tomislav Nikolic, and then I was accepted by the president of the then-Government of Aleksandar Vukic. The co-operation between the two nations and the two states then, five years ago, was in full swing. On those very days, Slovenia was selflessly helping Serbia affected by large floods. It was then an illustration of a genuine friendship between Slovenians and Serbs, between the two states, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in those 10 years, there have been numerous visits by your Prime Minister and the state of Slovenia. In a really good memory, I had the last visit to President Nikolic, with whom we together opened the "Clud of Peace and Friendship" in Tivoli Park in Ljubljana and opened a monument to Michael Pupina in Bled. With your president two days ago, therefore, on Saturday, we were honored sponsors of the solemn evening prayer at the Orthodox Church in Maribor and the Slovenian National Theatre for 800 years of independence of the Serbian Orthodox Church and 600 years of the birth of the Cell Countess Katarina Brankovic, who was the first Orthodox woman in Slovenia. Dear friends, Slovenia and Serbia in that period since normalising diplomatic relations, not only have they settled bilateral issues, but they have made sure that economic co-operation is booming, cultural exchanges and what seems most important to me to say here in front of the representatives of the Serbian people, we have taken care of really connecting, strengthening human sympathy and affection between the two nations and the state. Dear Madam President, high-priced, Slovenia has actively advocated and encouraged Serbia's entry into the EU from the very beginning. All that time, then and today, we estimate that Serbia's entry into the EU would be in the mutual interest of both Serbia and the EU, and that this would greatly contribute to the political and economic stability of this part of Europe. The confidence and friendship of those years has developed to this extent that we are taking part together at the level of the president of the country in the Brdo Brioni process, and at the level of the President of the Government in the Berlin Process, which represents the economic framework of the Briony process, but the most important European countries such as Germany, Britain, France are also taking part. The "Brioni Hill" process, although not formal, is at the highest level among the country representatives in the region, has more characteristics. The next summit will be in Tirana in early May. First, the process preserves, strengthens the fundamental personal trust among leaders and expresses the political will for elemental trust and co-operation between the peoples and the participating states. As I have already said, this process is the basis for a Berlin process dedicated to first order economic co-operation and directly includes the most important European countries in the process. Third, the process is attended by high representatives of third countries and the EU and presents an opportunity for a periodic exchange of assessments on the European enlargement process. It's some test stone, lacmus paper where we can feel and evaluate the atmosphere in the region. Madam President, may I thank you here and Serbia and the President of the Spruce for participating in this process? Dear friends, at the summit of the "Brodo Brioni" process in Sarajevo in 2016, I estimated that the EU could be more concerned with itself in the coming years than with its expansion, but in fact, it is not as much about itself as I would like it to be, but rather about the EU Member States, and it is less about the common EU, and it certainly creates such opportunities that, even in the coming years, we cannot expect any large or above-average political will to expand the EU. For this reason, at that meeting in Sarajevo, but also at all the meetings that I have since repeated what I want, Madam President, here to especially stress in front of the Serbian Parliament, that is why my dear Serbian friends, precisely because there could be a slowdown in the dynamics of the Western Balkan countries' negotiations with the European Commission on membership, which is why it is so important that all nations, all nations in this region, but also those on its edge, to co-operate unconditionally, to resolve all open issues, to maintain and strengthen trust between us and mutual respect, regardless of what there are so many differences between us, or precisely because they exist. Our political role and our responsibility are irreparable. Instead of us, no one else can do it, and even if it is a world power, and we with our knowledge, with our experiences, bitter experiences, but with our very noble, with our responsibility to all our people, our children, our children, we can take decisive steps to look patiently for useful and sustainable solutions to preserve peace in the region. The Western Balkans, such as the International Community, are at some crossroads, and things are making it harder for less predictability, increased security risks in the international community, but whether or not because of that, we have to do everything possible to resolve all conflicts peacefully. There is no historical necessity, as some say, that the Western Balkans always enter into some conflict in complicated situations. He can come in, but that's not necessary. But if that would happen against our will, if that part of Europe got involved in some conflict again, we all need to know that it would be a complete storm, a perfect storm, and none of us want it. All of us, our people, our children want a peaceful and secure future. Dear Madam President, high-priced, of course, Slovenia supports Serbia on its way to the EU. Regardless of my assessment of slowing the dynamics of enlargement, Slovenia will always warn of the importance of Serbia's EU integration. I wish Serbia great success on that path. He can expect to have friends and allies in Slovenia. From Slovenian experience, but also from personal experience, I know that this path depends heavily on the national domestic social consensus, how fast and successful domestic legislation adapts to the European legal order, and many times it is difficult to convince the local public that something must be done, although there may be no immediate reward, as regards the speed of the negotiations. Before that, I reminded the president that I led the Slovenian Parliament when Slovenia was joining the EU at the final stage. Dear friends, Slovenia understands Serbia's right to sovereignly choose its security policy. In this regard, we respect that your priority is to co-operate with the Russian Federation, but it is clear that there will be a quicker completion of Serbia's negotiations with the EU if relations between the EU and Brussels, i.e. the Russian Federation, will be well-organised. Let me say, as your friend, that Slovenia supports all efforts by the official Belgrade and Pristina to conclude agreements that regulate mutual relations, but that both sides must respect such signed agreements. As for some ideas to settle the most sensitive bilateral issues, Slovenia stresses the elemental condition. Negotiations must run peacefully, without threats or use of force, and the result must be a peaceful application of the agreement, without collateral security implications in the region. Many statesmen ask me - is that possible? I think it is if we have enough wisdom, knowledge and, of course, if we simply have a huge tendency to settle disputes peacefully. Slovenians and Serbs respect each other and have one affection for each other. Slovenia and Serbia are friendly countries, deepening, developing versatile relations. Slovenia and Serbia are helping each other and providing support. Both countries see in the European Union a space of reconciliation, peace, security and prosperity. Slovenia and Serbia have different security policies, but they respect this difference and believe that this difference does not interfere with the development of all other opportunities. Both, both Slovenia and Serbia, feel obliged to settle all bilateral and multilateral issues of states in Southeast Europe. Of course, as far as some questions are concerned, we have different views, but these views are not insurmountable, they are not so different that they would really bother or interfere with the development of excellent political and economic relations. Dear Serbian friends, it has been a great honor for me today to address you from this place. I will strive for Slovenians and Serbs to strengthen their relationship, their affection. I will do what is in my power to make Serbia and Slovenia modelly cooperate in favour of their peoples, citizens, citizens, the entire region, Europe, European and world peace and prosperity. Thank you for your attention and your honor. Long live Slovenian-Serbian friendship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-01-28-0.u51557	I thank the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor for his address. I conclude the 20th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
