ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-10-0.u62303	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 79 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We move to a decision on proposals for the law referred to in points 4 to 9 of the agenda. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on State Aid Control I put to the vote the draft law on State aid control, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one, abstention – one, did not vote – three. I find the bill accepted, in principle. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-10-0.u62304	I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 8 and 8, with the correction submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the modern-Serbian party party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 20 and 20, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 48 and Article 48, which, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 53, which was tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 57th Amendment tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 57th vote by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 64 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on a bill on state aid control, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – no one, abstention – one, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on state aid control. The fifth item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE ACCOUNTING LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the Accounting Proposal to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – no one, abstention – one, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by Parliamentarian Miroslava Stankovic - Đuričić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 15, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 17, which have been tabled by five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which have been tabled by five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 19, which have been tabled by five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was passed by MP Zoran Despotovic with correction. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 32, which was passed by MP Alexander Seselj with correction. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 44, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 45 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 55, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 57, which was passed by MP Nikola Savic with correction. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 57, which was passed by the People's MP, Verica Radet, with correction. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 58 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 60th vote tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 60, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 62, which was tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 64 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on accounting, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – there is no, abstention – one, did not vote – one of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on accounting. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft review law to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – there is no, abstention – one, did not vote – one of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Veronica Redet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 38, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the article 40, which was submitted by the MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 49 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 49, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by the MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 55, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 56, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 57, which was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 58, which was submitted by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above the member and Article 59, which was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the member and Article 60, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the member and Article 61, which was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the member and Article 62, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the members and Article 63, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above the member and Article 64, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the member and Article 65, which was submitted by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 67, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 80, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 97, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above the member and Article 125, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I visit you that the government has proposed that members of 72 and 123. The draft law has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I would like to vote on the government's proposal that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 72 and 123. It's a bill of law. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstention – one of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 72 and 123. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft review law to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstention – one of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the draft law on audit. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted one out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 6 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6, which was submitted by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 7, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7, which was tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8, which was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 9, which was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 12, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for -144, against - no one with abstentions - has, of the total 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on open-end investment funds with a public offering, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 143 against - no one with abstentions - has, of course, 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, with an amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 30th vote, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 49 to the vote, with the correction submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 62, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 68, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 77 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 80 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 91 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on open-end investment funds with a public offering in general. I conclude the vote: for -146, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on open investment funds with a public offering. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on alternative investment funds to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for -148, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to the 19th vote by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belacic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 35 submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for five against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 46, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 59, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 81 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 91 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for nine against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 102, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 115 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 126, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 137, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 147, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for five against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 157, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 180th vote by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 186 submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 243 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put the draft law on alternative investment funds in general. I conclude the vote: for – 148 MPs, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on alternative investment funds. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chair of the People's Parliament, the infringement is deemed to have been committed, may require that, without the right to an explanation, the National Assembly be made known on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session on 3 October 2019 at 18 o'clock and eight minutes that he was injured by a member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against two, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miladin Ševarlić said at a session on 4 October 2019 at 12 o'clock and 42 minutes that he was injured by a member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against two, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session on 4 October 2019 at 14 o'clock and eight minutes that he was injured by members 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – no one, against – three, abstentions – is available. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miladin Ševarlić pointed to the violation of Article 107 at a session on 8 October 2019. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – no one, against – three, abstentions – is available. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the agenda points of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
